u2021-03-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 5th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that János Szabó died in the 84th year of our former colleague's life. Dr. János Szabó obtained his mandate in the first free parliamentary elections after the change of regime from the regional list of the Independent Kisgazda Party in Győr-Moson-Sopron county, and he was the parliamentary representative of the party for a period of time. Between 1993 and 1994 he was Minister of Agriculture of the Antall and Boross governments. During his term of office, he was Vice-President of the Committee on Justice of the Parliament and member of the Municipal Committee. After his years in the Parliament, he worked for three cycles between 1998 and 2010 as the municipal representative of his native village, Tápiószentmárton. In 1994 he was recognised as an honorary citizen in his native village for the development of his homeland, for the aging of the good reputation of the village. I ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Member. [[The people in this room stand up and salute the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2014, the Parliament decided to celebrate the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms every year on 16 March. Our national symbol, the red-white-green tricolor, became a symbol of the national independence of Hungarians in the Reform Age, while the basic elements of our national coat of arms in their present form are the XVI. They're fixed in the first century. In 1848, following the victory of the March Revolution, the National Assembly did not delay the laws of national colours and the coat of arms of the country. The law ordered the red-white-green flag to be placed on every Hungarian ship and on our national holidays for all public buildings. Later, with the dismemberment of historical Hungary, our national colours and the coat of arms became symbols of Hungarian unity in addition to independence. They reflect that although Hungary's borders do not coincide with the borders of the Hungarian nation, the nation is united by its linguistic, cultural and historical traditions. When we salute the Hungarian flag and coat of arms on this day, we also bow our heads to all those who have sacrificed their lives fighting under the national flag and coat of arms, lost their freedom, suffered any injury or disadvantage. But let us not forget that there were times when the use of national jerseys and crests, and even their possession, was persecuted and punished. Following the fall of the 1848-49 War of Independence, the use of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms, which is a revolutionary memory, was banned in the years of the Habsburg Abuse. Dear Parliament, Aptly writes in his poem entitled Dezső Kosztolányi, "It is only a stick and canvas, but not a stick and canvas, but a flag. Our national flag and coat of arms, expressed respect and appreciation for him, makes it the heart's symbol of our Hungarianness. Dear House, Szabó Timea, leader of the Dialogue Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2021-03-16-1	Ladies and gentlemen, I have seen in November that there will be great trouble, said Viktor Orbán two days ago. He saw there was going to be trouble, and it's really bad, but if a country leader sees that there's a problem, what does he do? First of all, you stand up in front of people and you tell them honestly that there's a problem. Then, immediately, he will do everything in his power to stop the epidemic, to protect people, to make fewer people sick, to get fewer people on the hospital and on the ventilator, and to make fewer people die. Viktor Orbán saw in November that there was going to be a problem with the epidemic, and what did he do? Did you stand in front of people? Did you protect them? No. Instead, on 4 November, Viktor Orbán organized the Ferencváros-Juventus football match in front of 20,000 viewers, in case it stops the epidemic if 20,000 people sit crowded for two hours. But Viktor Orbán did not stop here, he had two other good ideas on how to stop the virus in another way. He introduced free parking and took away their tax revenues from the municipalities. But that, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Okay, so the Prime Minister thought I'd take out the ultimate weapon and give Zsolt Semjén 64 billion forints for his hunting exhibition. If it doesn't stop the virus, then nothing will. And look at the miracle: not even 64 billion forints for the Semyen hunting exhibition, or the World Exhibition in Dubai, or even 100 billion forints now scattered to the Nyíregyháza football stadium. The virus is raging, literally raging, and that's what Viktor Orbán did: football match, free parking, revenge on local governments and a billionaire's gift to his friends. Do you know how many people are on respirators today? Sixty-six! And do you know what Professor Merkely said about the capacity of hospitals in a ventilator? A thousand! So what we are saying now is that thanks to Viktor Orbán's neglect and negligence, doctors have to decide who can and can't be on the ventilator. [[13.10]] Because Viktor Orbán left this decision to the doctors, he was afraid to make it. The hospitals are full, and the ventilators are full. More than 17,000 people have died in Hungary so far. This is the third worst result in the world since the beginning of the epidemic. Before the governing parties lie about that, here's a summary of Johns Hopkins University. Look, after the Czech Republic and Britain, most people died in Hungary in proportion to the population per 100,000 people! [[He's showing it to me.]] We have the third most dead in the world. This is Viktor Orbán's epidemiology. And what else did the Prime Minister do? It keeps EU vaccines from lying again that Brussels is not sending us anything. However, I also have the report of the European Center for Epidemiology on 14 March that Hungary is storing 600,000 EU vaccines in the refrigerators today instead of injecting them. Of the thirty countries in the region, Hungary is the 20th worst performer in this respect. I am not saying this, my fellow Members, but the European Centre for Disease Control. There are 600,000 vaccines in the fridge, which means that Viktor Orbán is lying and cheating, endangering the lives of hundreds of thousands of people by not injecting these vaccines. He'd rather buy a three-time Chinese vaccine because of that, of course, he and his buddies could steal billions. The Pfizer vaccine costs 8,000 forints, and the Chinese vaccine Sinopharm costs 23,000 forints. The difference is, through Fidesz buddies' offshore company, they're all in your pockets. It's more than a shame! It's a sin! There is no apology for this crime, my fellow Members, nor is there any apology for the chaos that the other weekend 70,000 people were waiting in vain for the vaccination because you promised them and did not receive it, because they were sending texts all over the place instead of organizing the regular vaccination, as arranged in other countries. Hitting, lying, stealing, offshore, incompetence, chaos. This is Viktor Orbán's disease management. Yesterday, March 15th, it was apparently issued to the pro-government speakers to compare the freedom fight of 49 to the fight against the epidemic. But there are two problems with that, honourable Members. One. The young men of March didn't steal or offshore; you just want to be like them. Two. Unfortunately, we know how it ended with light armament. You guys don't give up fighting the plague... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] Even if you turn it off, Mr. Speaker, we're not going to give up the fight.
u2021-03-16-2	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-03-16-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, You like to quote half of thought and sentences. The Prime Minister said that he really saw at the end of last year that the vaccine purchase programme that the European Union started to carry was wrong. It is wrong because it rejects vaccines from one side of the world because it says that vaccines coming from the East do not inoculate Europeans. He saw that this was wrong. And you can see that if you look around other countries, north of us, east of us, or west, that more and more countries see the same thing now, in March as what Viktor Orbán saw last November, that this is a wrong strategy. In Europe, Europeans should not be prohibited from being vaccinated with effective and safe vaccines other than the three vaccines authorised by the Union. That's why prime ministers are now heading east, and they want to get vaccines from there. We had an advantage in this, as in many other things, that we had already seen this in November, and that is when we began to negotiate, and that the first Russian vaccine and Chinese vaccine came to Hungary in the European Union, and that the other countries will follow after us, honourable Member. This is why Hungary is not at the end of the lists, but at the top of the lists, in a beating place. If you look at the proportion of vaccinated people, 13,82 percent in Hungary is only Malta before Hungary. 13.82 while the EU average is 7.78, Germany 7.3, France 7.48. Fortunately, Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe. This is due to the fact that we were not conscious in February and not in March, but in No-vember, and we were already trying to obtain vaccines from the East in order to preserve the health of Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You are talking about hospital capacity and the decision of doctors here in Parliament. But narrowly a year ago, what were you talking about in the same Parliament, referring to a fake paramedic named Athina Németh? That in hospitals... [[Szabó Timea: Oh, give me a break!]] Don't tell me to leave me alone. Mr. Congresswoman! [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] You said that too many hospital beds are being prepared to receive patients with a coronary virus. [[Intruders from Fidesz: Bummer!]] And that's what you attacked. [[Szabó Timea: Slanderous!]] [[Szabó Timea: Slanderous!]] Now, a short year later, you say that more beds for receiving patients with coronary viruses are needed in hospitals, honourable Member. You're a fake paramedic referring to a chauvideo (Szabó Timea: Slandering!) He tried to attack the government here, why there are so many beds in hospitals. [[Szabó Timea: More than 17,000 people died!]] to receive patients with a coronary virus...
u2021-03-16-4	Congresswoman, will you shut up, please? Here you go.
u2021-03-16-5	Thank you very much. ...to receive patients with a coronary virus. Now it's barely a year, not even a year, and you say exactly the opposite. As you say in a month, the opposite of opening. András Fekete-Győr may be the record player who demanded an immediate and almost complete opening. Mr De Ujhelyi István MSZP representative [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] who would have reopened not only zoos, wildlife parks, outdoor facilities, but also restaurants and terraces in particular, he wrote that the Opennikek! It's gotta be blue in the spring, and it should've been open yesterday. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Or fellow Members, I'll help you! Open the door! Mr. Peter James said here in Parliament on 15 February. Let's open Hungary again, but with brains! , said András Fekete-Győr. They bid on each other. Gergely Christmas, your party president:. The proposals regarding opening are proposals that should be considered by the government in substance. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Oops!]] It was you who submitted a package of proposals and withdrew it eight hours later. A few weeks ago, they were talking about opening, and now they're demanding strict measures. [[13.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What is your claim that the plague has now passed a year ago, which you have not yet said the opposite? Because once they say there's a lot of beds, they say there's not enough beds. They say there's no ventilator, they say it's a lot and it's expensive. They say there's not enough vaccine, but they say there's no vaccine coming from the East. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You're saying everything you can to dissuade people from vaccination. You're anti-vaccinations, trying to create insecurity everywhere, collecting signatures against the Chinese vaccine, so that as few people as possible get vaccinated. It would be your responsibility here in Parliament to be at least somewhat consistent! But the fact that they are actually making fun of themselves in the first place or making fun of themselves by saying everything and the opposite of everything here in Parliament shows that if the left had control of the epidemic, how serious our country would be. We are pleased that this is not the case, so Hungary is the second most displaced country in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-6	I now give the floor to the LMP Congresswoman, Krisztina Hohn. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[It's constant noise.]] Huh, it hasn't been easy for a few minutes in the past... I'd like to get started, if you'll excuse me. Dear Parliament, Today, there were two legislative proposals before the committee which, unfortunately, were voted down and both were related to the unemployed and to the public workers. One of these proposals was to please hear our voices and raise the so-called unemployment benefit from three months to at least six months, so that those who have lost their jobs during the epidemic could breathe, and since then have found no other means of living. In addition, the other proposal was that there was a certain legislation governing the fact that a certain public employee could spend a maximum of ten years in a given public employee. This has now been lifted by the government in a decree for the duration of the epidemic or emergency, so that those who may have felt their livelihood at risk may be a little relieved. However, a number of submissions have already been made on this issue, including the increase in wages, the increase in wages of the public workers, of which you have approved two thousand forints in net terms or put forward so much, so much has been raised on the wages of these unfortunate people, which I think is more than humiliating, as the wages of the public workers have not increased normally in years, significantly. It was a minimum wage once, wasn't it? We understood the intention that by getting less wages, the intention is to return to the labour market, but now that is much less likely than before. That's one of them. The second is that the gap between the normal minimum wage and the public employment minimum wage has now become so great that at present about 50 percent of the public employment wage is the minimum wage; when it all started, it was about 70 percent. I would like to take the initiative that as many of your colleagues as possible, who will draw up these legislative proposals and write the justifications, do more field exercises and get acquainted with those public workers, some of whom I know. I've told you many times that I was mayor, I've organised public employment myself, I've seen the benefits, I've seen the disadvantages. Yes, there are people who can actually get stuck in this employment system, and they can't come out of it on their own. They need complex programs, among which I have seen such a program, developed by pro-government experts, which I think was very good, and I don't understand why it wasn't introduced. Indeed, the number of public workers has decreased in recent years. Unfortunately, many of them have been lost because of death by illness, and some have been fortunately able to retire, but there are still many who have been really stuck in public employment for ten years. So these people need help, you have to hold them, because they're dying of hunger, because 54, but you can't make a living out of 56 thousand forints. I will also give you an example to understand what we are talking about and to really see that what I am saying is credible, and this is not an exclusive criticism or scolding of the government, as the Secretary of State has just said to one of my fellow Members here. So that is not my goal at all, but rather to draw attention to the fate of these people. So the fact that someone gets 56 thousand forints and hasn't had any assets for years, because what they were, we say, has already lived up to it, this person needs help if we want him back in the labour market, or it's some kind of social employment that will ensure his livelihood. For example, we have a woman named Erzsie, who suffers from severe diseases, but who is not sick enough to receive disability care. For example, in his case, his income will now be 56,000 forints, of which he will pay 30,000 forints for rent, electricity and water, and all those twenty-a-pair thousand forints will remain for him to buy wood, buy food for himself, and live his life at all. I would like to ask you what you think you can buy today from 20-25 thousand forints. Did you calculate that this is not a thousand forints a day, if any? But if you say you don't pay rent, I hope you pay for those who can, there's not enough money for those who can. But if we buy two thousand forints a day, it's also minimal, let's think about the bread prices and so on. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for the floor.
u2021-03-16-8	Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-03-16-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We care about everyone's work, and we think that everyone who wants to work, who wants to do work, must be given the opportunity to do a job. That is what our government measures are all about, Madam honourable Member, because we all know that we are not in a simple situation, that the coronal virus epidemic threatens not only people's health and life, but also their jobs. We have had countless debates about this here in Parliament, and perhaps you know the government measures that we have taken in the last year in order to create as many jobs as the virus destroys, create as many new jobs as possible, and protect as many jobs as possible that the virus threatens. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to inform you that we have been able to support more than 1 million 660 000 workers through the government's measures so far, and as a result, domestic unemployment is one of the lowest in the European Union. In January 2021, the unemployment rate in Hungary was around 5 percent, which is much lower than the EU average, is 7.3 percent, and the average in the euro area, which reaches and exceeds 8 percent. Indeed, we see the figures, we are constantly following the events of the labour market, and we are developing and introducing new measures, because we see that there are currently 55,000 fewer people working than a year ago. It is therefore our task to create at least as many new jobs in the coming months. Once again, because that is our most important statement: we all care about our work. We sympathize with everyone who is in difficulty now, and we work so that they can find a place as soon as possible. We are constantly helping the troubled sectors to do so, and we have introduced sectoral wage support for the first time in the catering and leisure sectors and for the workers there. This programme has been available since 11 November, and we have already been able to contribute to the protection of 121,000 jobs with the help of this programme. In this programme, and perhaps you know that, Congresswoman, the state will reimburse half of the workers' wages if they receive their salary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let me also inform you that 98 percent of those who have applied for this programme are already being paid. Allow me, honourable Member, also to inform you that restaurants and leisure facilities do not have to pay contributions to their employees, so that almost 15,000 businesses could be exempted from the employer's tax burden. Another important measure is that we have extended this programme to all the sectors that have now been closed in order to protect against the virus, so that we can open up later. We also provide the necessary wage support for companies working in these sectors and their employees. [[13.30]] And allow me, honourable Member, to inform you that it is also not necessary to pay rent to restaurants, cafes and gyms on public and municipal property from 1 February to 31 May; we are also trying to help the various sectors survive and to keep the job for as many workers as possible, as many Hungarians can keep their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We still have a number of measures to protect jobs and create new jobs. Allow me to mention just a few of these. On the one hand, we have helped to keep more than 360,000 workers in total through tax incentives; on the other hand, hundreds of thousands of jobs could also be protected through competitiveness-enhancing and investment support programmes. An important measure is to give zero percent credit to the smallest Hungarian businesses [[The president's ringing the bell.]] For rebooting. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-10	I now give the floor to the representative of DK, Agnes Vadai.
u2021-03-16-11	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The first word is thanks to all those who struggle with their strength for the sick and those who help us to live our lives, even under such difficult circumstances. There are many people who can't be listed: shopkeeper, postman, cleaner, administrator, teacher, social worker, and those who patiently answer the government number 1818 to persistently callers' questions. Thank you very much. But the government doesn't belong to any category because the government didn't do its job and didn't do its job. All you guys did was press deaf lyrics and facilitate NER thefts. If they had only thought for one moment not of themselves, but of Hungarians, they would have prepared a transparent public vaccination plan. But they didn't, and you didn't make a plan for vaccination in a selfish and soulless way. They obviously couldn't make it in the summer, because they had to go to the Adriatic and the government garden parties; then they couldn't make it last fall, because they had to speed up the theft; but somehow they didn't have time to do it in winter, obviously the heat of the Maldives and Dubai was waiting for you. And then we're here in the spring, and there's no vaccination plan. Today, it is clear to everyone that there is no government foresight, no planning, but there is chaos and unorganization. People 70-80 years of age, chronically ill, call their GPs and often call us when they're due because they see chronic patients under the age of 60 being vaccinated. At the same time, chronic patients under the age of 60 also ask the general practitioner when they will take place, because they will see that healthy younger people are vaccinated. There's a transplanter who's already been vaccinated, and there's someone who's just been notified that they're going to be vaccinated. Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of talk going on in every aspect of life. You consult on opening, while closing the country, leaving the Hungarians unaided. You are talking about the fact that Hungarian health care does not need international help, but according to the Hungarian Medical Chamber, doctors today have to decide daily who gets on a ventilator in the Covid classes and who does not. I hope you understand. I hope you understand. Today, in Hungary, health workers have to decide who lives and who dies. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] I hope you understand. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: No, it's not true!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] I hope you understand. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties: It is not true!) I hope you understand that. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's not true!) The government chaos that started last year with contact research and testing has now infected every branch of the government from mass vaccination to never-ever crisis management. You're an excellent criminal organization. If you have to steal, if you have to cheat, if you have to lie, it goes from morning to night. [[Moraj, interrogations from the ruling parties.]] if you have to use an enemy that doesn't exist [[The president's ringing the bell.]] To carry on a freedom fight, that's what I can do, but as a government, they bleed to death on the first task. Your prime minister said they could inoculate everyone in one weekend, and then they couldn't inoculate 74,000 people because the first test for mass vaccination collapsed. Orbán also talked about healing everyone, while 17,000 Hungarians died. Well, are you guys crazy? Seriously, are they normal? The fact that people have been vaccinated in Hungary at all is due to those who have done their job, to the general practitioners and to those who work at the rennet. Everything went well until you interfered, saying you knew everything better. The result of this was the astrazenec collapse with rather deplorable texting. Then they called for mass vaccinations at the same place at the same time as the people that caused the same tumors as Jahn Ferenc Hospital. In the meantime, they do not accept the extinguishing points offered by the municipalities, obviously because they are opposition authorities. And then it turns out that many of the general practitioners can't put out because they don't update the lists you give them, they have the one who's already caught you, they've got the one who hasn't asked for it, but they don't have the one who wants to get vaccinated. Government Congresswoman Ladies and Gentlemen! Your Prime Minister once said in his debate with the European Commission that this mentality would not lead to a rural place. Well, you can't trust a dead tadpole, let alone a place like this. Tell the country when there will be order, day, hour, minute. What is this mess? What's this chaos? What's with the panic control? What's all this bullshit they're doing? And I'm really asking you not to tell me that we're anti-vaccinations, because if we were, we'd stand by and salute the amazing lameness that you've shown in the last few weeks. The reason we're angry is because we want as many people as possible to get the vaccine, but you're clearly unfit for it. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-16-12	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, the honor is yours.
u2021-03-16-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We do not say that we can end the epidemic as quickly as we can, and you seem to know it very well, but they are mobilizing enormous forces to undermine the Hungarian vaccination program. And one of their analysts told me why they're doing all this, as he said: if you undermine the willingness to be vaccinated, [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] then Viktor Orbán must bear the responsibility. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not what he said!]] So simply, so harshly, so unscrupulous, they spoke of their own dark strategy, but this is not just a strategy, because the actions came from it. We're telling you they're anti-vaccination because they're anti-vaccination. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Because they're lying! They say that because they're lying!]] They're attacking from many places. First of all, they questioned the expertise of Hungarian authorities, Hungarian professionals, which is incredibly offensive to those who are fighting in the front line. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Brussels was the subject of a complaint concerning certain types of vaccine. They campaigned against certain vaccines in a national publication. DK mayors sent letters to general practitioners, encouraging them not to use certain vaccines. They understand their so-called health politician: their health politician argued on live television that any vaccine would be better than the virus; the brains would stop! Then to give some examples of recent cases: in one of the municipalities, Erdőkertés, one of the general practitioners refused to give vaccines, while in the public the information on vaccinations is available. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Really?!]] every Hungarian can make a decision about it [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You can't! That's not true.]] that he needs the vaccine. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] Nevertheless, as a doctor, one of the darkest campaigns in recent years, this doctor was not, incidentally, your candidate; in fact, we would have wondered if that were not so. [[Miklós Soltész: That's right!]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Brussels was the subject of a complaint concerning certain types of vaccine. They campaigned against certain vaccines in a national publication. DK mayors sent letters to general practitioners, encouraging them not to use certain vaccines. They understand their so-called health politician: their health politician argued on live television that any vaccine would be better than the virus; the brains would stop! Then to give some examples of recent cases: in one of the settlements, in Forest Gardens, one of the general practitioners refused to give vaccines, while in the public the information on vaccinations can be found (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Really? ! "All Hungarians can make decisions about it" (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Can't! That's not true! that he needs the vaccine (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Not true!) However, as a doctor, one of the darkest campaigns in recent years, this doctor was not, incidentally, your candidate; in fact, we would have wondered if that were not so. (Miklós Soltész: That's right!) The left on the surface strongly denies that it is anti-vaccination, then why are people denied vaccination? Or to say one more thing, why have you campaigned to ban certain types of vaccine? (Dr. Agnes Vadai interrupts.) Not for some kind of license, but for banning it. A few weeks ago, a resolution was distributed on their official website demanding that certain vaccines be banned. Check it out. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] So when you're asked to be anti-vaccination, all we're asking is that you don't think we're stupid. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] And don't think Hungarians are stupid. That's what...
u2021-03-16-14	Congresswoman, please be quiet. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I won't be quiet!]] Yes, because... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai:]] But then you'll have the consequences, you know. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I don't care!]] You've got five minutes to tell me what you have to say. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] You've all heard it, and now you'd like to hear the answer. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] Please, please. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No!]] Then please leave the meeting room. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No! Dr. Ágnes Vadai will continue to remain in place.]] Understood. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Go, drink!]]
u2021-03-16-15	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If I had campaigned against vaccinations like this, I'd be as tense as you are. So when you're asked to be anti-vaccinations, we ask you not to think of us as idiots and not to think of Hungarian people as idiots, all the more so because what you're doing is costing people lives. If you're really worried about the health of elderly people, don't talk them out of vaccination, don't. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] Now we see that all that matters to you now is the campaign, the pre-election, the sharing, and the making it worse for the government, but ultimately, it will be worse for those who are fighting in the front line. And we also see that there is a division of roles on the left, they recruited Gyurcsány boys from every party leader, from Jobbik to Momentum [[Defiance in the ranks of DK and Jobbik.]] who then compete; that if not in the anti-vaccination campaign, they would be waving potatoes, throwing smoke grenades [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] They threaten and forbid journalists, and their boss directly threatens dissidents by making them land-travelers. [[13.40]] Now there is nothing new in this policy, it is not the future, it is not the future at all; it doesn't matter what masks they wear, it's the same policy that almost destroyed this country once. If, in times of economic difficulties, you take the wage support away from the hosts, the entrepreneurs, if you give the money to tax criminals, and most importantly, if you are campaigning against vaccinations in the middle of an epidemic, it is not a new policy, not a patriot policy, as you say; it is not a policy of unscrupulousness, and it is a policy of the heartless kind. We've seen this working for years, and we don't want to see it again. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-03-16-16	I now give the floor to the head of the MSZP faction, Bertalan Tóth.
u2021-03-16-17	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember a Prime Minister who said, "If necessary, all decisions must be taken by the government, and therefore the government must bear responsibility, of course, for me. That's what I'm gonna do, of course, and that's what I'm supposed to do, I could say, which is why I'm getting paid. I do not understand, then, my fellow Members, what is the point of this lecturer's style, and why this disgruntled tone of voice, and why this accusation and scheming. Of course, we've heard since then that the operational tribe is responsible. When the Prime Minister said that, the death toll was still under ten a day. But we have heard that since then the operational tribe has been responsible, and then Brussels is responsible, and we are listening to the fact that the left has the responsibility. In fact, we now hear that not only the virus, but also the left, has to be fought just to hide the Prime Minister's misfortunes and failures. The only problem is that the Hungarian people in this fight are the doctors, nurses, educators, workers, small entrepreneurs, children, unemployed, pensioners, everyone who is in doubt and vulnerable by the Fidesz regime, because he left them unaided during the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, Less fighting and stealing, more government responsibilities. Because, with all due respect, who chased almost 5,000 doctors and nurses out of health care during the plague? [[Nacsa Lárinc: Gyurcsány!]] The Fidesz regime. Who hindered vaccinations by, for example, refusing to set up new injection points in Szombathely? The Fidesz regime. Who caused the mass vaccination to drown in chaos ten days ago? It's the Fidesz regime. Who has been involved in the conclusion of EU vaccine procurement agreements, which are extremely secretive? The Fidesz regime. Who failed workers during the crisis? Who has provided the tightest wage support programme across the EU? The Fidesz regime. If there's money for space exploration, support for Fidesz foundations, hunting exhibitions, stadiums, then why not for the protection of domestic jobs? Who started national consultations on re-opening at the beginning of the third wave of the epidemic? The Fidesz regime. But the Prime Minister said that he saw that there was going to be trouble in November. Who goes on luxury vacations in Dubai, the Maldives and other exotic places, risking spreading new infections? The Fidesz elite. Who are the vultures who make billions in vaccine procurement through their offshore companies? The fidesz oligarchs. It is time to take responsibility for these decisions and events. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's just say that instead of dealing with the epidemic, Fidesz protects and builds its authoritarian system and conceals its incompetence by propaganda. To the little they say, it's enough, to the none they have, and to the theft they say it's government. But this cannot continue indefinitely, believe me, the screen of lies can never hide the whole truth. It would be good if they understood that supporting a living is also a way of saving lives. A lifesaver can be the 100 percent sickness allowance, the higher and more long-term job search support, the double-up family allowance, both children and children. If you could govern, you would have given all school children the conditions for digital education, and there wouldn't be hundreds of thousands of unemployed people simply denied by the Fidesz regime. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has learned by now that Fidesz cannot be expected, but fortunately, it has also turned out that despite all the incitement, we can count on each other. There are a million examples of help, sacrifice. We're holding on to each other right now, trying to keep everyone on the surface. And the good news is, fellow Members, there is hope. We have the antidote for the virus, and we have the antidote for the Fidesz. We have the antidote to end the era of darkness that lasted for more than ten years. The alliance of opposition parties is growing stronger, and the time will come soon to put an end to the functioning of the Fidesz lie factory, the senseless campaign of hatred, and you will have to account for the stolen public wealth, EU subsidies and our tax forints, for a common future, Hungary!
u2021-03-16-18	Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-03-16-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, In essence, he said in his last sentences what he did in part during the Hungarian left during the epidemic: position struggles, personal struggles, list places, occupation of districts. This is the most important thing for the Hungarian left, as you said in your last minute, that in the event of a hoped victory, which, we trust, will not happen in 2022, everyone has given up all their earlier statements, all their political positions from Jobbik to Momentum to MSZP, how they rank behind Ferenc Gyurcsány, and how they are trying to get some kind of position, some sort of power section for themselves. You admitted that this was the most important thing for you in a year of fighting the epidemic. But indeed, honourable Member, the government has not only to deal with the epidemic, but also with the Hungarian left, because the Hungarian left does not help to combat the epidemic, most recently it blocks the various objectives of vaccination. You have talked about the fact that the government is only using the epidemic to build its self-preservation, that it is no longer talking about full power, but about authoritarianism, but that there has been no further progress on the left, I see, honourable Member. You say it's a mess, that it's a mess about vaccinations, that it's completely unorganized about the administration of vaccines. I think it would be good if you read not only the headlines on the left-wing portals, but also the comments from the people who said that I had gone, I was there, you didn't have to stand in line, you were willing, you had the vaccine in a few minutes, the whole process didn't take a lot of time, you got your shot exactly, and you were able to go home. Honourable Congressman, Not only should they read their own false news, but they should also hear the voices of the people, who are now increasingly vaccinated in Hungary, more than 1 million 334 thousand people. So, what's the chaos, what's the collapse you're talking about, honourable Member? In Hungary, the percentage of vaccinated people is 13.82 percent, and Malta is the only one in front of us. Behind us is Finland, Denmark, Estonia with more than 10 percent results. Iceland, Lithuania, Ireland and even Ireland are now below 9 per cent; they are also below 9 per cent in Greece, Slovenia, Austria, Norway, Portugal, Spain and Cyprus. The European Union's average output is below 8 percent, with less than 7,78 percent Italy, Poland, Sweden, France, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Germany, Romania, and less than 7 percent Belgium, Luxembourg, Croatia and Latvia and Bulgaria at the end of the list. While Hungary stands at 13.82 percent against these countries in proportion to grafting. And that's when you talk about chaos, that's when you talk about inefficiencies, and that's when you talk about how the government has to take responsibility for failure, when there's no other country in the European Union than Malta, which is not quite large, that could have guaranteed protection against the virus to as many people through vaccinations as Hungary. And if it had been up to you, honourable Member, if you had made the decisions that you shared with the public here, you would have ordered 3.5 million fewer vaccines in the previous and following months, since Eastern vaccines would not have been ordered and the health of so many people could not have been protected. We are not happy about this, but unfortunately we can talk about a continuous delay in Western vaccines, not only in Hungary. Hungary would not have called a special meeting of the European Council, but Austria and many other countries for which vaccination distributions are stalling and not proportionate. This is not said by the Prime Minister of Hungary, but by the Prime Minister of Austria and the Prime Minister of the four or five countries joining it. The former President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that he was not transparent, that he was not effective. [[13.50]] The current President and current Vice-President of the European Commission have admitted that the European Union's purchase of vaccine is not successful. There is nothing else to say, for if you look at the other great world powers in the United States, where vaccination is much higher, about 20 percent; Israel, where it is around 60 per cent; England, to whom around 35 per cent after the Brexit, has been given much better performance to protect the health of its own citizens, honourable Member. Of course, when it is possible to solve something like György Hiesz, who had been vaccinated without registration, of course, left-wing politicians did, because their own health is important to them, but when it comes to protecting the health of Hungarian people, you are constantly attacking and attacking them here in Parliament. Honourable Congressman, If it were up to the left, the health and life of many more Hungarians would be at risk. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-20	I now give the floor to the leader of the Jobbik faction, Peter James.
u2021-03-16-21	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! I've been hearing that government ad on the radio for a long time, and they know that the country has to work. Tell me exactly what you want to send to the public with this ad. What? Well, they're exactly the ones running this country, the nurses, the sellers, the drivers, the teachers, the police. This country hasn't stopped because they're doing their job. You're the ones who don't do anything. So you can take my speech today to an advertisement in which the people send you a message, the people tell you that yes, the country must work. Well, keep it running, since you've already voted millions in rewards for nothing. Colleagues, it's been a year since we've lived our lives under restrictions. It's been a year since we followed the rules. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] It's been a year since you've been running this country with an authorisation law with unlimited power. Compared to this, a country is now locked up without anyone knowing what tomorrow will bring, not even the Prime Minister, because he admitted that he doesn't know what tomorrow will bring, except that he obviously has more money. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Colleagues, it's the government's job to run the country. Instead of operating, however, all we see is chaos. Health care is on the verge of collapse. You have achieved that, in one day, 5,500 medical workers will resign in hospitals, thanks to the fact that after a year of hard-core, human life-saving struggle, you have received no respect but humiliation. Our hospitals are filled with patients, and doctors are gonna have to decide who to get a ventilator because there's not enough capacity, and you're gonna start selling the ventilator? ! I can't believe it! There's chaos in vaccinations. What did the Prime Minister say? It means that they could organize an injection of the entire population in one weekend. Compared to that, the vaccination plan collapsed in one weekend. [[Noise.]] They buy Chinese vaccines expensively, saying that money doesn't matter when it comes to human life, but we don't need a more modern and cheaper American vaccine because it's too expensive. What's going on, fellow Members? ! Dragonweed's on your mind? ! [[Constant interruptions from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Do you want to turn the vaccine into a business through your offshore companies? ! Meanwhile, people don't even know what tomorrow brings, what happens in two weeks. Is there gonna be a job? Is there gonna be a paycheck? How do they solve babysitting? And, yes, you have every right to ask where the Hungarian government is at this time. Where is the Hungarian government, to which a lot of taxes are paid, but when there is trouble, is it impossible to decide? You are unable to make decisions, or you are unable to make decisions. We remember, Prime Minister, recently, that there are three cases in Hungary that cannot be delayed in the middle of the crisis. Obviously, if you weren't an imbecile, you'd think that one of these cases would be health care, the other would be job security, the third would be vaccination organisation. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] His Excellency thought that these are not the pressing issues, but the organisation of the 2022 handball-Eb, the successful Hungarian participation in the Dubai World Exhibition and the construction of a new motor racing track in East Hungary. The song that comes to mind is that you're leaving reality over two hundred and twenty. You left him. They fly to Dubai and the Maldives with a luxury machine; they build a stadium in the second class for 20 billion, but they would have built a secret tunnel for Comrade Orbán, didn't they, for two billion dollars, under the Puskás Stadium? [[Noise.]] Meanwhile, what do Hungarian workers and entrepreneurs get? The Prime Minister will go on the radio and tell him that I feel for you. Wow. You can make a living out of that. How about, say, Lőrinc Ripper gets extra sympathy instead of billions of public money? The attic is full of sympathy and big talk, fellow Members. What did the Prime Minister say to a German newspaper the other day? We have excellent economic data, well, there are problems in Western Europe. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Say this by saying that, by the way, Hungary's government debt is making records, the government deficit, salaries, pensions are low, prices are high, forints are weak. [[Noise, interruptions.]] You guys are sucking up money like ducks and you can't get this country out of this crisis. [[Constant interrogations from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] And obviously they don't want to, they don't want to. If that were not the case, the Parliament would have given 80 percent wage support to those in distress a long time ago; they would have increased the unemployment allowance; they would give paid supplementary leave to parents staying home with their children; they would have kept the executives in check; and not least, in this critical situation, they would have met all the demands of health workers. [[Noise.]] Fellow Members, yes, the country must work, but this requires a responsible government. Well, that's what I don't have. Instead, there's a urizing, caviar-eating band that looks down on its own people and leaves him in trouble. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Fellow Members, you have failed as a man, as a government, and you will soon have a paper on this. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-22	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again.
u2021-03-16-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You referred to health data. You're asking for an opening in this house a few days ago. I can't do it the way you do it right now, but you said that fellow Members, I'll help you: open up. [[Noise, interruptions.]] That's pretty much how he demanded it, I quote. A few days ago, there was a petition, a petition initiated by Jobbik, in which the opening and the immediate opening were demanded. [[Intercoms and sporadic applause in the pro-government benches.]] And then you come in here and get medical records. Don't you feel the hypocritical contradiction? ! Can't you feel it? ! [[Continued interrogations from opposition and pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] By the way, the reboot schedule, Mr President, is determined by the progress of the vaccination programme, and the situation here is that this has been messed up in Brussels. They were late in the contract, and the vaccines that were agreed upon also arrive late. It is therefore fortunate that the government was able to obtain a vaccine from another source. The Jobbik has been attacking this effort all along, thus joining the darkest, most incontrovertible political action in recent years, the essence of which is to create a mood for vaccinations. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] You spoke here in Parliament not too long ago about Brussels providing all the help it would need to deliver vaccines. Then let me ask him to visit his friends outside and ask him why, for example, half a million promised AstraZeneca vaccines will not arrive in the next few weeks. Or you have a representative out here who made anti-Semitic comments, ask him to find out why the shipments are jammed. We can agree on one thing: once the epidemic situation allows, it will be necessary to open up, and in the most difficult weeks of the epidemic, we must ensure that the country is operational, first and foremost, that jobs are protected, and a number of decisions have been taken to do so, and we will not stop talking: wage support, now extending to those sectors that are affected by the closure. Families and businesses continue to benefit from the credit moratorium, which is the longest across Europe for 15 months. The VAT on new apartments has decreased, the renovation programme has started, this will not only help families, but also support small businesses in this sector. We are already thinking about reopening, so every Hungarian company affected by the closure can apply for a zero percentage loan of ten million. In small settlements of less than 2000 people, a special support programme is launched for small shops, and they can apply for up to HUF 60-70 million. In addition, we will rebuild the 13th month pension, tax exemptions for young people under the age of 25, and the biggest medical wage increase programme to date will be launched. If you really cared about the Hungarians' livelihoods, you wouldn't have been involved with those who took you away from them. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Because of these measures, Peter James says that nothing, really, after he has joined forces with those who have almost failed state in the name of crisis management. Allow me to say, honourable Member, that by listening to your speeches, I see that you are enjoying yourself very much on the left. He is practically volunteering for the tasks that only a core DK organisation had previously dared to undertake. Your path shows that the Gyurcsány boys are here. They look new, but they've always been here. They come from many places: out of the SZDSZ, for example, from the far right, others have always been Gyurcsányists, so they come from many places, but they have one thing in common: they cross all the lines that we think cannot be crossed. Beyond the anti-vaccination campaign, they're fighting in the Chamber, campaigning with fake paramedics, blocking right-wing journalists, and really, most importantly, they're campaigning against vaccinations, and by the way, your boss is threatening dissidents even by making them land-travelers. We always thought there was nothing lower on the left, but they always reveal new depths. [[14.00]] Honourable Member, you once had a thought-provoking sentence. He said that the goal of the Gyurcsányek is not order, but the acquisition of power at any cost, if necessary, in the face of their former principles. It's embarrassing, isn't it? You asked him yourself. After you've joined them, we're asking you, isn't your stomach nauseous, Congressman? Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-24	On behalf of Mr Attila Móring József, Member of the KDNP, he applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2021-03-16-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, One year after the outbreak of the Crown Virus pandemic in Hungary, we are living again in dramatic days, not only in Hungary, but in Europe, there is a strong third wave of epidemics. Due to the rising number of patients and the spread of the epidemic, the government has decided to tighten the gap so that if we close now, we may be able to restart life around Easter. The weeks ahead are expected to be the hardest weeks of the epidemic. In addition to the tools needed to combat the epidemic, health care workers, doctors and nurses who perform outstanding work every day, as well as the tireless work of thousands of defenses, are our hopes of overcoming the virus as soon as possible. Thank you all for your sacrifice. Dear House, If you look at the epidemiological events of the last year, you can say that the first wave control was successful. Using the possibilities of the special legal order, the government and the operational tribe made timely and good decisions, the protection measures were consistent, and the Hungarian people were cooperative. From the very beginning, protection against the epidemic has taken place on several fronts. In addition to health protection, it is important to maintain the strength of the Hungarian economy and to protect jobs. The government has not forgotten the financial and social effects of the epidemic, it is constantly taking protection measures and giving tax and contribution reductions to the troubled sectors. With its various measures, it constantly supports families, most recently announced the extension of legal, legal and legal rights. The second wave of the epidemic reached Europe and Hungary in the autumn. In November, the government restored the extraordinary legal order, declared the emergency again, the Parliament approved the government's measures and extended the emergency. In view of the epidemiological situation, the government was forced to extend the security measures announced in the emergency situation several times, and the Parliament voted on the extension of the emergency by 90 days on 22 February. Due to the drastic increase in the number of patients, the government finally decided on further tightening up from 8 March. Dear House, The only known form of fighting the virus is vaccination. The purchase of vaccines in Brussels is extremely cumbersome and slow. If Hungary hadn't ordered 3.5 million Eastern vaccines, so Russian and Chinese vaccines, which have already vaccinated 500,000 people, we'd be in big trouble. With the help of Russian and Chinese vaccines, there is a continuous supply of vaccines that are available to registered persons with the involvement of GPs and hospital injection points. On Wednesday another 100,000 doses of Chinese vaccine against coronal virus will arrive in Hungary. Our GPs are highly expected to overcome the virus, as they are currently inoculating the registered elderly, and the tasks assigned to them are expected to continue to grow in the next few weeks as they continue to work towards younger and younger people according to age. It cannot be emphasized enough that all five vaccines used in Hungary are effective and safe and provide protection against the severe course of coronal virus infection. Vaccines are given according to vaccination schedule. The medical staff were the first to do this, and their campaign-like vaccination ended. In the second round, elderly homes and residential social institutions were vaccinated, most of them already received the second vaccination. In the third round, at the beginning of February, the vaccinations of the oldest registered for vaccination were started at hospital injection points, GPs and nursing homes. The fourth round also started the vaccination of chronic patients under the age of 60, and in the fifth round the vaccination of defense officers, law enforcement workers and soldiers began. The vaccination schedule is in order and scheduled. According to today's latest data, 1 million 347 thousand are vaccinated, and some 400 thousand have already received their second vaccination. According to the international statement, our country is a stable second in the European Union, taking into account all vaccinations. Ladies and gentlemen, On Monday, the number of new infected patients increased by 7706, by 4926 this morning, and 9844 patients with coronal virus are currently hospitalized, more than a thousand of them on a ventilator. These are terrible numbers. We ask everyone to continue to comply responsibly with the epidemiological rules. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The good news is that the number of vaccinees is close to 1.5 million, and the total number of vaccinees is 3.2 million. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-26	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-03-16-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In Hungary, every patient with a coronal virus has a hospital bed, a ventilator, a staff, and a treatment medicine, and in Hungary, the second most vaccines are available per 100,000 inhabitants. That's how we're dealing with the coronal virus epidemic right now. Not all countries in this fight can say that about themselves. There are countries where ventilation and ventilation have taken place in the hospital parking lot over the last few months, there are places where patients have been cured in hospital dining rooms, there are places, like France, where cancer patients couldn't even be cared for, there are countries from which patients have been moved to other countries, and there are still places to continue. We thank the Hungarian doctors, the Hungarian nurses, for their preparation in the first, second and third waves of the epidemic. Now, in the third wave, we see the maximum load. The Hungarian hospitals can stand because Hungary has acquired breathing machines in quantities such as perhaps none of the countries in the world, which was constantly attacked by the Hungarian left. The reason why we can stand against the epidemic is that Hungary is also purchasing vaccines from the East, which the Hungarian left is constantly attacking, and we can and can trust our doctors even more because we have launched a wage increase program, and we have launched a double pay program for doctors that no other country in the world has done during the period of the epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the last year's effectiveness in defending each country, we can see that Hungary has nothing to be ashamed of in this area. Every criticism that the Hungarian left has said here today, and has said it in recent months, will fail when faced with numbers and facts. The communication strategy of the left is to take a day or a week from the epidemic management data of Hungary and other countries and compare them, instead of comparing the same periods, the same longer periods. So let's say, a calendar year, last year. In almost all countries last year, the number of deaths has increased in the world compared to the average of the previous five years. This was, of course, the case in Hungary, but it doesn't matter how much the number of deceased has increased compared to the average of the previous five years. Here, if we look at Europe, the list of the most defensive countries, the lowest mortality surplus occurred in Latvia, Finland and Denmark, by 2-3 and 4 percent. Next, Estonia follows by 5 percent, then by 7 percent Germany, then Sweden, Greece, Lithuania by 9-9 percent, and then Hungary by 10 percent, i.e. the 9th lowest in the European Union, was the surplus of mortality in Hungary in the last year compared to the previous five years. If we look at the numbers, Croatia, France, the situation is worse in Austria, the situation is worse in Slovakia. How many times have we heard Slovakia speaking out of the mouth of the left! But if you look at the overall mortality figures, unfortunately, they have a high number, and they are also higher than the Hungarian number. Following us are Cyprus, Portugal, Luxembourg, England, the Netherlands, Romania, Malta, Bulgaria, Italy, Belgium, Czech Republic, Spain, Slovenia and Poland. For this protection, the Hungarian left says that it is not effective enough, and that it is said by his purchase of vaccine, and his vaccination program says that it is chaotic, where there is only one more effective, the Maltese within the European Union. That is why we say that we must fight not only against the epidemic, but also against the left, against the false news on the left. We strive to give registered older people until Easter their vaccination, at least the first one, so that protection can be developed for them, and therefore the risk of illness or serious course may be reduced. [[14.10]] If it were up to the Hungarian left, three and a half million fewer people could get a vaccine by the end of May. This includes older people, teachers, those who work in shops, those who can even contribute to Hungary's operation. There are many family fathers, family mothers, children, parents, and brothers in these three and a half million people, who, if the vaccination program on the left were to take place, would not receive them. And what does the left do even during this period? He's pissing me He teases Hungarians across the border with the question of how many double citizens and Hungarians across the border could receive vaccinations. Piss against the administration of vaccines. And let me quote to you the president of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, who was the State Secretary for Health of the Gyurcsány Government:. I say not only to Ferenc Gyurcsány, it is generally true that MOK is very disturbed by the over-politicisation of the vaccine issue, and certain statements by Zoltán Komáromi are political and non-medical statements. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Their former Secretary of State for Health, their Chairman of the Medical Chamber, finds what you're doing unacceptable.
u2021-03-16-28	Mr. Secretary, your time is long over.
u2021-03-16-29	Excuse me, thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-16-30	The word now belongs to Máté Kocsis, leader of the Group, on the part of Fidesz.
u2021-03-16-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, We are living in difficult days, all over Europe, and here, in Hungary, the coronal virus epidemic is attacking with great forces. There are still reports of many infected and hospitalized people throughout Europe. At home, there is hope that a mass vaccination is taking place in Hungary, because we believe that only vaccination can end the epidemic, which is why we urge everyone to do so if they are not registered yet. Inoculation means hope and safety. According to today's data, 1 million 347 thousand Hungarians have already been vaccinated, thus Hungary is a leader in the EU in proportion to the population in terms of grafting, ahead of the Germans, the Austrians and the French. This also required the government not to sit back and wait for a slow and small vaccine from Brussels, but to look for new roads. Several EU Member States are now following this path, and at the same time, it turns out from week to week that shipments that Brussels has committed have either not arrived or not so many have arrived. The Austrian Chancellor drew the most attention to the injustice of distribution. Despite the agreement, the EU agreement, the agreement between the Member States and the Union, EU vaccines are not divided in proportion to the population. There are countries that get more, and there are countries that get less. This means that half a million Hungarians will not be vaccinated because of Brussels' mistake, only in March and April. Yes, that means the health, life, safety of half a million people, putting that at risk. On top of that, the Brussels elite also conceals vaccine contracts. We're asking you to release these. It will be clear to everyone why there are not enough vaccines across the EU to be here. Overall, therefore, it was worth trusting the proposals of Hungarian experts, the proposals that allowed Hungary to receive as many safe and licensed vaccines as possible in advance of the bureaucracy in Brussels. These vaccines save people's lives. The vaccine has no nationality, no political view, the good vaccine that has already been given. Now, if you'll excuse us, let's hold a mirror to those who have made sharp criticisms here in the past few minutes. Somehow, it's amazing what you think no one remembers what you said two weeks ago, or what you said three weeks ago. It's bad to think about what would happen if we listened to you and the government didn't order vaccinations from other parts of the world. The number of vaccinated people, honourable fellow Members, would not reach the current half. If we listened to you, we wouldn't be half the number of people vaccinated. First, vaccine registration was attacked: they created uncertainty and distrust, and the acceptance of vaccinations to the public was reduced from the very first moment. And when there was a vaccine and the vaccine arrived, it was targeted. Yeah, they may be asking for their anti-vaccination campaign, but you did, you continued this campaign, and you continue today, though it's true that you're quieter, sneakier. They unsure people and try to talk them out of it. Let's not forget, a few weeks ago, you even launched a petition against one of the approved vaccines; you didn't, you filed a petition against it. But I also got here when Ferenc Gyurcsány also questioned the vaccine given to the Prime Minister in order to stir something up. Over, over, over, over and over with uncertainty. We cannot pass without saying the case of their general doctor in the forest, who, by the way, was a candidate for LMP, but, of course, at Gyurcsány's request, he withdrew: he simply refused to inoculate people. There are other examples. In parallel with their central, sly, unsettling campaign, we find one in the person of György Hiesz and Imre László, who had been vaccinated for that, just in case. We'll find someone who said it was a strategy. If you think this is a mistake, it's a communication disturbance with you on the left, I'll let you know that we know this is not a mistake, it's a strategy. You have an interest in the spread of the epidemic, the government's mismanagement, and uncertainty. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You said, the more infected, the more dead, the more chance you have for elections. Shame on you! [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Shame! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-16-32	I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary.
u2021-03-16-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, We all know that vaccination is the solution, as you said, in the fight against the virus, the vaccine is the only solution. If you'll allow me, let's look back a little bit on what's happened here in the past few days. I have said several times before that joint EU vaccine procurement would have been a good idea if it hadn't been ruined. Representing 450-500 million people of this size is a good and logical idea if you do it right, but unfortunately you didn't do it right. They messed up, they made a lot of mistakes. They concluded contracts late in Brussels, concluded contracts for small quantities, and the producers did not even comply with these bad contracts. In fact, there is now no week when one producer would not stand up and say that it would not bring as many vaccines as it had promised, as it had agreed in the contract. At first, of course, they said in Brussels that it wasn't true, that everything was fine, that there would be so many vaccines here that we couldn't do anything about it, that we would have a lot of vaccines. That's what we can say, yes, there's a lot of vaccine on paper. It's too bad you can't put it out on paper. I would like to share some numbers with you: up to now, 9 percent of the quantity ordered at Pfizer has arrived in Hungary, 5 percent at Moderna, 6 percent at AstraZeneca, and you have just announced that you will continue to deliver reduced quantities in the future. From the purchase in Brussels, 6 percent of the quantities ordered have come to this point. I would particularly like to point this out to those who say about the left that we did not order a vaccine via Brussels. Yes, you can. It's not that we didn't order, it's that we didn't get what we ordered. And when they saw in Brussels that the pie was hot and everything would come out, they admitted that it was okay, we made a mistake. I quote the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen:. When I look in a rear-view mirror, I see that we should have thought more about mass production and challenges. He also said that we should have taken the appropriate expansion of supply chains earlier in order to increase mass production. It's a bitter lesson, obviously we underestimated the challenges. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Vice-President Timmermans said that he made mistakes in Brussels. Now, of course, we are not helped, the Hungarian government saw that this was going to be a problem last year, in the second half of the year, which is why we contacted China and Russia last October, together with the preparatory discussions, in September. The result is that today we are the only ones in the European Union with five vaccines, and only we have an agreement with China and Russia, even the Slovaks with Russia, no one else has anything. We said that 3.5 million people were inoculated by May more than one EU country of the same size. Dear House, At this point Ferenc Gyurcsány spoke in the language of love, because, well, we know that he speaks only the language of love. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He said that himself, and, well, Ferenc Gyurcsány spoke in the language of love as he could. [[14.20]] He said that the Hungarian government is conducting a human experiment. Then Peter James spoke, and he also said that the Hungarian government is conducting a human experiment. This leads to the conclusion that Ferenc Gyurcsány and Peter James probably learn the language of love in the same language class. But of course, András Fekete-Győr joined: dangerous, unreliable vaccine coming from the East. He's so dangerous and unreliable, he'd give it to you now. Returning to the numbers, this House, and perhaps even to what I have said, I think that the worst act of the last thirty years is to play with the lives of people, to root for the plague, the crisis, the worst act of the last thirty years. With regard to China, I would like to inform you that a million vaccines have already arrived from China; one million vaccines have already arrived 20 days before the deadline. Twenty days! And this week, 100,000 vaccines are coming from China, 43 days before the deadline. I would also like to recommend this pace to the attention of Brussels. For Russia, 420 thousand vaccines have been received so far. As a result of Mr Foreign Minister's negotiations, the next item will be 480 thousand vaccines. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-34	Dear Parliament, Mr Félix Farkas is now taking the floor before the roma minority spokesperson's agenda. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-35	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, As we all know, Hungary protects its nationalities. And the nationalities who live here treasure and cultivate their mother tongue, religious traditions, identity and culture. Yes, dear opposition, Gypsy music, too. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: That's right!]] Here I would like to express my deepest condolences to the family of Gyula Vajda, who died last week, and to the Gypsy Orchestra of 100 members, of which the violinist was one of the oldest members. The Hungarian gypsy musicians are invited to participate in the XV. Since the 20th century, it has been mentioned in descriptions and as an occupation in the 18th century. It spread among the Roma in the first century. Yesterday we remembered the revolution and freedom fight of 1848. At that time, before the battles, Gypsies played in front of the soldiers. Their instruments played the Rákóczi marching or the Kossuth song. For the revolution of 1848 Gypsy music was a manifestation of Hungarian identity, rebellishness. No one has to introduce János Bihari, Pista Dankó, Czinka Panna or the Rajkó Orchestra. Then, in 1985, the 100-member Gypsy Orchestra was formed, which became internationally famous and recognized as a classical-symphony orchestra. Today in Hungary, but perhaps there is no man in the world who does not know the 100 Gypsy Orchestra. And what happens in February 2021? The president of the 100 Gypsy Orchestra on TV learns that the VII. Mayor of the District, the DK Niedermüller Péter closes down the Wesselényi Street Power House in front of the 100-member Gypsy Orchestra. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Shame!]] What if it wasn't the attack on the Gypsy culture? Then let's watch the VIII. Circuit! In 2020, the opposition mayor, András Pikó, reduced the number of the Gypsy Orchestra of Józsefváros by 30, while at the beginning of 2021 he added 15 members. What if it wasn't the attack on Roma culture? Everyone knows the 100-member Gypsy band. In 1985 he held the first rehearsals of the Hungarian Heritage and Hungaricum Award-winning ensemble in the theatre hall of the Hungarian State Folk Ensemble. If it's up to the DK mayor Niedermüller, the band couldn't even rehearse today. Along with calling for the ensemble to move out, he expressed his opinion on our Roma-born artists, my brothers and sisters of Roma origin. But with this, the entire opposition team has expressed their views towards us. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. But let me also say a few words about the yoga town band. Máté Kocsis was still the VIII. mayor of the district when, in cooperation with the local Roma minority self-government there, he brought the ensemble to life. In 2009, they started with 51 members, with 75 members in 2018. Here comes András Piko, mayor of the opposition, and in two steps he reduces the number of the band to 15. This is also, indisputably, about the Roma. In the middle of the coronal virus epidemic, 60 people take away their work and life's meaning, 60 families for a living, and a significant part of the Gypsy Orchestra culture from a whole country. This is nothing more than the murder of Roma culture. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: Shame!]] Fortunately, Budafok, the mayor of Budatétény and the government protect their nationalities, including us Roma and Gypsy music, despite the actions of the opposition mayors. He doesn't leave anyone on the side of the road. Ferenc Karsay, mayor of Fidesz-KDNP, offered by the 100-member Gypsy Orchestra at the Cziffra György Cultural Center without interruption, and now their instruments are here. Prof. Dr. Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, also gave the orchestra a helping hand. Thus, despite the will of the oppressors, the group was also embraced by the EMMI. It is not by accident that the government supports gypsy musicians, which are an integral part of our national heritage, with an annual tender entitled "Musikáló Magyarország" and, if necessary, by providing space for those who are not valued and expelled by the opposition. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Gypsy musicians give traditions from generation to generation. Gypsy musicians have a long history, and if it's not up to the left, they'll have a future. Let us help them all to carry on Hungary's reputation. Thank you very much for your attention. Take care. Let's take care of each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-36	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2021-03-16-37	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Speaker, Dear House, What kind of sign did you use to protest racism and Jobbik in 2013 by Péter Niedermüller and Ferenc Gyurcsány:, I am also a gypsy. What did Peter Niedermüller do after he was elected mayor? You have posted the 100 Gypsy Orchestra, my fellow Members. It's not surprising for a mayor who said in March 2019 that I didn't want to be mayor, I didn't know how to do it, I didn't make a clown of myself, and then a few months later he left for election, and he was elected mayor of the district. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, many were outraged by the fact that the 100-member Gypsy Orchestra, whose name is an icon for everyone, which is a Hungarian Heritage Prize winner, everyone in Hungary knows its name, and a lot of people in Hungary know their names abroad, many go to the 100-member Gypsy Orchestra concert if they visit Hungary from abroad. Why did this band bother Mayor Peter Niedermüller, and why did it have to be them? And what goals do you have with the room and the hours when the 100 - member Gypsy Orchestra practiced in these rooms? What do you want to use this opportunity for? Nor is it understandable to many why Peter Niedermüller had to put out one Jewish television in Europe from the premises he used? Ladies and gentlemen, Think about it. If a non-left mayor had been elected mayor of the district in 2010 or 2014, and he had told Weekly TV about the lease contract of the only Jewish TV in Europe or the 100 Gypsy Orchestra in Europe, then Ferenc Gyurcsány and Péter Niedermüller would have been the first to move out of the district with signs similar to what I have already mentioned, and they would have been the first to protest about the racist tone in this district, and what racism is that the only Jewish TV in Europe and the Gypsy Orchestra of 100 members should have moved out of the district's properties. Those who have now taken this step and terminated these contracts would have been the first to protest themselves in the last ten or thirty years and would have cried racism themselves if they had seen it anywhere. However, something has changed since Ferenc Gyurcsány and Jobbik found each other and embraced each other, since then it seems that racism has not been expelled from Jobbik, but this kind of racist attitude has appeared not only in Jobbik, but also in all left-wing parties, my honourable fellow Members. [[14.30]] When that kind of attitude is politically rewarding, you think it's the left, you're pushing these strings. They have not allowed Jobbik to be alone in the Hungarian political life, my fellow Members. The government is trying to help the Gypsy Orchestra of 100 members, because we have an important national value. It is a 30 million-dollar grant that can contribute to the operation, and we will also strive to give the 100-member Gypsy Orchestra a place to live. For the time being, Ferenc Karsay, mayor of Budafok-Tétény has offered us his help, which we thank you for, in the name of the 100 Gypsy Orchestra, but we will strive to ensure that, since most of the members of the Gypsy Orchestra live in the city, that if there is anything more advantageous, we can provide them with a place to practice. But this is not the only scandal associated with Peter Niedermüller's name. We have also seen that from the building built for the Molnár Antal Music School, the Molnár Antal Music School was erected to replace it with the FreeSZFE Association, but the external pressure forced them to withdraw from it. This shows that there is no diversity really on the left, only everything that would mean real diversity, whether with the 100 Gypsy Orchestra, or with the only Jewish television in Europe, as soon as they come into power, they are exterminated, because for them it is only important what they can control in power. It is also talkative that the government has to make the Zugló Philharmony state reserve from de-cember 2010 to save another scene of culture. But Péter Niedermüller has a long scandal chronicle, although he has not been in power for a year and a half, he insulted everyone when he said that the white, Christian, heterosexual men and women were terrifying. Many were shocked when he said that illegal immigration was not a threat, but a wealth and opportunity, he had made scandalous contracts with Csaba Czeglédy when he told the media every day that the local government had little money. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Criminal!]] But he has the money to send Csaba Czeglédy tens of millions of public money to a convicted felon who's been thrown out of his ranks by the law firm. And the fact that it was a power-stealing case, or that the catering facilities were being scratched afterwards, is just foam on the cake. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-38	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-03-16-39	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes László, LMP; László Hajdu, DK; László Varju, DK; Gergely Arató, DK; Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; László Horváth, Fidesz; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; János Bencsik, independent; Anett Bősz, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Szilárd Németh, Fidesz. The following representatives submitted a speech before the agenda tomorrow: Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Lajos Oláh, DK; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, Jobbik; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; Zsolt Németh, Fidesz. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; János Bencsik, independent; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2021-03-16-40	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[It's happening.]] Dear Parliament, The resolution house rule is 86. Article 37 to discuss the political debate pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Article. A time frame shall be set for the application of § 5 of this Regulation. On this basis, I would like to propose that V/15298 on the use of EU funds for the 2021-27 cycle. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a five-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Group of Jobbik, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue, the House Rule is 37. In accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4, the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2021-03-16-41	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, taking into account the time frame increase, is as follows. The Fidesz Group has 103 minutes, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 68 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 64 minutes for the MSZP Group, 25 minutes for the DK Group, 44 minutes for the LMP Group, 42 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 16 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2021-03-16-42	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the House, and it agrees that the presentation will be discussed in the time frame, as set out by the notary, as amended by the request of Jobbik, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The decision on the timeframe was supported by 145 votes in favour, 7 against and 7 abstentions. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask this House to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Now, at 2:37 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. [[Some of the congressmen are leaving the room.]] Dear Parliament, Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the State Secretary of the Ministry for Innovation and Technology, János Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The title of my interpellation is that you're willing to change your economic policy. We're rebooting the economy. They're proclaiming the government's promise to posters all over the country. The question that arises in this context is that they are willing to change the economic policy so far. In Viktor Orbán's opening speech in Parliament, he mentioned the increasing incomes, decreasing poverty and the enormous ability to attract investment among the characteristics of the Hungarian economy. How are we really doing with regard to income in the 11th year of the Fidesz administration? In terms of standard of living, per capita consumption, only Croatia and Bulgaria are prevented in the EU. Decreasing poverty? According to GKI's study, 2 million Hungarian citizens live below the minimum living age. Huge ability to invest? Well, yeah. It builds the government's economic policy on providing cheap and vulnerable labour to large, predominantly multinational companies. [[14.40]] If necessary, he will install the labour force that keeps wages down from Ukraine. A few years ago in Saudi Arabia, the Prime Minister encouraged investors that the labour force in Hungary is surprisingly cheap in terms of its qualifications, and the labour code is very flexible, which has since been made even more flexible. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Orbán also said in his speech to Parliament that our crisis management was all about protecting jobs; they know our perception: if there is work, there is everything. But let's just say, if there's a living income, then there's everything. According to the Prime Minister, those who are out of the unemployment benefit period have unlimited public work available to them. We value public workers. The government underestimates them by providing them 57 thousand and 77 thousand forints depending on their qualifications, while Viktor Orbán himself signed the declaration establishing the European Pillar of Social Rights in Gothenburg in November 2017, in which he acknowledged that workers have the right to a decent living and a fair wage. Evaluating experts stressed that economic policy instruments should have been focused on preserving human capital. The government has put questionable investments first. The objective is obvious: this is how to feed the feudal chain needed to maintain power and gain the support of large international companies. On this basis, do you intend to change the government's economic policy so far? I'm waiting for a meaningful answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-16-44	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2021-03-16-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can definitely answer your interpellation that we will certainly not do an economic policy conducted by your left-wing friends. [[Noise and interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] an economic policy, a messed-up economic policy for which you are now working. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Yes! Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] You can be sure, honourable Member, however you yell behind me, you can be sure that we will not scratch the families, and we will not put unbearable tax burdens on the necks of the working people, as the left, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány in full association with Jobbik, did. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] When they were in power. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to draw your attention with great respect to the fact that you have furnished yourself with those who have already completely crippled a crisis management that has practically destroyed the entire country. And in that, honourable Member, I sincerely hope that you will not join the left-wing choir and will not start speaking against the Transcarpathian Hungarians. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to draw your attention to [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] that during the Balliberal governments, hundreds of thousands of people were on aid; instead of job creation, jobs were removed, and those who worked were taxed to death. But in fact, honourable Member, you know that very well, because Jobbik was created against this. It's sad that they've denied themselves today. It is sad that they are working with those left-wing parties and the factions where the representatives who took a month's wages from civil servants are sitting, taking a month's pension from pensioners; making health pay; raising the VAT; introducing tuition and property taxes. Honourable Congressman, You're working with these people; you're trying to get these people back in power. Honourable Congressman, So what you're suggesting will lead to re-lending, and it will serve us to the dexterity of international powers and speculators. Honourable Congressman, In 2010, Hungary set itself the goal of a work-based society, because instead of humiliating aid, we believe in creating value for the Hungarian people, because if there is work, then there is everything. This policy is a success, and you can see it, too, if you look at the figures, as unemployment was a record low before the emergence of the coronal virus, 850,000 more people worked in Hungary than in 2010. Honourable Congressman, Of course, we know that this period is very difficult for many Hungarians, and the coronal virus epidemic also threatens jobs. We help them, and we leave no one on the side of the road. Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw attention to the fact that, despite the coronal virus epidemic, wages have been rising steadily in Hungary for 96 months. Between January and December 2020, net wages were 9.7 percent higher than before; real wages increased by 6.2 percent during this period. And if we look at Eurostat rather than the GKI, we can clearly see that the figures of those at risk of poverty have decreased by 1 million 280 thousand since 2010, which is a serious result. I'm asking you to support the government's work. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-16-46	I ask the congressman, he accepts the answer.
u2021-03-16-47	I do not accept the answer, because instead of the secretary of state once giving professional answers, I have now heard one of the most indiscriminate propagandaists' answers. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Intercoms from the same place: That's right!]] I didn't get any meaningful answers! What does Jobbik and I have to do with what happened before 2010? [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: Nothing!]] I asked you a specific question to answer. By the way, György Matolcsy gave the answer: in his view, the key issue of reopening is that it is not the old economic structure that needs to be restored. He also said that Hungary does not have a unified and clear vision today. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, today in Hungary, in your decade, 58 thousand fewer children have been born than in the previous decade. The consequence of this is not for itself that hundreds of thousands of talented Hungarians have left this country in the last decade because of the lack of quality jobs and the suffocating atmosphere. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's what they're supposed to be facing. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Intercoms from the same place, among them: That's right!]]
u2021-03-16-48	István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-16-49	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! I want to talk about our children, preschools, the office and the Constitutional Court. What has happened, this House, is that recently the Constitutional Court, with a recent decision, has annulled the amendment of the Public Education Act on school maturity and the regulation of its establishment. This amendment was initiated by the current majority, claiming that a single regulation would be established that would otherwise be legal and in the interest of children. Now the Constitutional Court has stated, by its unquestioned decision, that this is not the case. Normally, it would be possible to negotiate without further ado, most of us, when it comes to our children, our grandchildren, the generation under the age of 6-7, that you were wrong, that is, to correct the mistake together. But that's not what's happening! This is not what is happening, and in a foolish way, they still claim what the Constitutional Court has already said, and it is clear that this is not in the children's interest. In my opinion, the decision is made solely and solely in the interest of the office in the capital. It's just that they thought that all the children were the same, and when they were six, they'd go to school with them. But you know, obviously, as a conscientious parent, that some children are mature and some children are not ready for school. This was the previous method, and we have done so for many years, decades, regardless of governments. Then you changed that, and now the Constitutional Court has destroyed it with effect from 30 July. [[14.50]] I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, we can talk to each other normally in such a case, or the madness has already become so great that we cannot have a real, sane professional debate about kindergartens, the smallest ones. What I want to ask you, Mr. Secretary, is that, for the sake of our children, you are re-establishing the original regulation, because the new one has been destroyed by the Constitutional Tribunal. Will you accept that not all children are the same? In fact, I'll tell you more: you know this exactly as a parent, as a grandparent. Every child is different, thank God, that's the wonderful thing about it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This bloody law didn't admit it. Will you correct the mistake, Mr. Secretary?
u2021-03-16-50	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-03-16-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First, let us clarify what the Constitutional Court has decided and what it has not decided. You are an accurate and accurate man, I think, you may have accidentally read the article of Népszava, and you have formulated this interpellation because the decision of the Constitutional Court does not sound like you said. I would like to quote the decision of the Constitutional Court literally, and then we can at least clarify the starting point: the Constitutional Court is the 2011 CXC on national public education. Law 45. Paragraph 2 and paragraph 45. § 6 and 6f rejects the motion for the establishment and annulment of the fundamental law. It is therefore important to clarify that it is not as you said, honourable Member, that the amendment was annulled by the Constitutional Court, but that the motion for annulment was rejected by the Constitutional Court. I also read in the left-wing papers that they said that it was destroyed, but if you look at the Constitutional Court's resolution, then you can see that this motion was rejected by the Constitutional Court. There is another part in the amendment of the law, which does not apply to school maturity, but to a completely different regulation, there was indeed a part that was destroyed. But he didn't destroy a single paragraph about school maturity, not a single paragraph. The Constitutional Court laid down a legislative obligation for Parliament for the future until 30 June 2021, which should be settled by Parliament. This is the case for the additional guarantee of the Constitutional Court, which is entirely in line with the outcome of the similar examination of the Ombudsman, that we must make a legal provision here to what is the case if the child is not mature, but the parent does not submit the child's quasi-deferral request, so that he stays in kindergarten for another year. It must be arranged for the legislator that if the parent, with his own failure, endangers the development of his own child, the interests of his own child, then the system of public institutions can enter this situation without harming the interests of the child. This was indeed brought by the Constitutional Court, and this situation will be resolved, if the parent forgets to submit this request out of negligence, or makes this request incompletely and problematicly, then how can it be replaced by the parent. But it's not about what you're suggesting here that the legislation here has been annulled by the Constitutional Court. Why is this regulation in place? Honourable Congressman, You know that there has been a very wide range of practices, when, where, what kind of deferrals have been granted in this case. Some were tougher, some were more comfortable. It didn't matter where he was born, because in one city they told him to have another year in kindergarten, 10 kilometers away, and in the other city they told him not to go to school. This was in this situation of injustice, it was not in the interests of Hungarian children that the place of birth determined whether he was granted permission to postpone or not to receive. We said that there should be an equal standard: one who needs to postpone, because it is really good for him to be in kindergarten for another year. This year, 16,487 requests for deferral were submitted. How many percent of this has been provided by the Education Office, which you call an inhumane, remote nerd agency. He gave permission to 96 percent. You're saying that we artificially force schoolless children into the school bench 96 percent of the school board has given way to the applications, and that they're an expert in the process. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We only need 53 percent of it. So I think it is possible to have a meaningful dialogue on this, but let us clarify the facts first. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-52	I'll ask Congressman, he'll take the answer.
u2021-03-16-53	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, No, because it's an ancient way to deny a statement twice, then it becomes an even stronger statement. After all, you denied my claim by denying your own claim once more, confirming my claim. It's a very clear method. What I am trying to say is that you understand that I am speaking in the interest of the children, because you have created bureaucratic obstacles to obstructing the earlier method of establishing school maturity, which predestroyed the kindergarten teacher and the parent most in order not to interfere. I would not call the Hungarian parents sloppy, and I urge the Secretary of State to be cautious when he blames the Hungarian parents for the bureaucratic obstacle. I specifically stand up for these parents and their children and their grandparents and grandchildren. And as long as someone stands up [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You can't accept that answer until then. Thank you.
u2021-03-16-54	I would like to inform you that we will take every decision on the adoption of responses to the interpellations in the future line of our agenda. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. I give you the floor.
u2021-03-16-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You failed. They failed because that government structure failed. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Again?]] In which, for example, we see very well, there is no place for the Minister of Health. But all of their crisis management activities failed, which began with thousands of patients being expelled from hospitals. Then this madness continued by timing doctors and nurses' employment contracts to introduce new serious restrictions during the virus, thus chasing away more than 5,500 doctors and health workers when breaking records for infected people, on the ventilator, and on the number of people who died. 5,500 people are the staff of four entire county hospitals. You've failed because we're now about to send paramedics all over the patients, hunting for a free medical bed, sometimes pushing a patient with a heart attack or a stroke for 60 kilometers. And here comes what we're about to see, the total vaccination chaos. Remember? You can go put out, you can't go out. The text system's dead, and they're sending people all over the place. Whoever went there got a shot even if he wasn't on the list. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) They do so when they wait in vain and hope for vaccination, for example, by teachers who are assigned to an on-call system. They're pushing for shots that the Union hasn't allowed. What could have been imported from the West would have been abandoned by millions of vaccines, which are now being taken over with joy by Western European countries. This could have saved hundreds of thousands of Hungarians. Mr. Secretary, what you're doing here is nothing more than a government of death in Orbán. Your prime minister said anyone who gets sick will be cured. Compared to this, more than 17,000 Hungarian lives have now been lost. Your prime minister also said that the success of crisis management can be measured in human lives. Well, in proportion to the population, Hungary is among the first in the number of deceased. And if your minister had any honor that he didn't have, he'd resign, because it's obvious he's incapable of fulfilling his duties. Even if we know very well that the real person responsible is the Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, the man who can no longer lead a country, but an auxiliary motor-wheel party. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] Mr. Secretary. What's next? How many more people would it take to ask for forgiveness from the Hungarian society, and secondly, to pick up their bags and get to where the crippled grieving Hungarians have long wanted you. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Kamuvideo! Applause from the opposition benches. Dr. Peter Hoppál:]]
u2021-03-16-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your party leader Ferenc Gyurcsány sent a message from Belgium saying how much safer he feels in Belgium, where the graft is 6.58 percent, while in Hungary 13.82. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's it!]] [[15.00]] So much for your sense of safety, so much for your anti-vaccination, Your Honour. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Pathetic!]] For months, all you have been doing is trying to dissuade the Hungarian people from the vaccinations. You are the only party, perhaps in Europe, but the only political group in Europe who have also collected signatures against vaccinations in China, honourable Member. Obviously, there are results, because those people may be a few tens of thousands, maybe a few hundred thousand, who follow Ferenc Gyurcsány with a fanatical fascination that we cannot understand, and you probably talked them out of injecting the Chinese vaccine. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame!]] [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame!]] And they may have talked him out of injecting the Russian vaccine. (Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame!) There may be hundreds or thousands of DK sympathizers who have gone to the rennet, went to the general doctor, told him that the Chinese vaccine is here, but he says that Ferenc Gyurcsány said that the Chinese vaccine is bad, so I won't submit it to myself, and he won't have his immunity for weeks, months. Have you ever considered that with your conscience, putting your own voters, the people who support you most in jeopardy? Because in a large number of Hungarians, the pro-vaccination, registration is constantly increasing, you can see that the number of people who register for vaccination may increase by hundreds of thousands in a few weeks. But those of you who like you the most, I could say that you love it, because you love your political team, but you put them in greater danger than anyone else, because they don't believe in the Chief Medical Laboratory, and they don't believe in the Department of Medicine, and they don't believe you, but you do, and you mostly talk your own supporters out of accepting the Chinese and Russian vaccine and their immunity. Have you ever considered how irresponsible it is for DK to think that the people who owe the most to you who put you in this Parliament are exactly the ones who put you at the greatest risk of health? ! Do you think this is the right way to conduct politics, honourable Member? ! You have again talked about vaccines, how many millions of vaccines are coming from the European Union. You've heard it before the agenda: 6 percent of Western vaccines have arrived, 6 percent of the promised quantity. Where are the millions of vaccines? You're talking about the fact that there are millions of vaccines in a warehouse somewhere that could be brought in and vaccinated. Honourable Congressman, You mix one quarter with another quarter. We strive and bring vaccines from the East so that vaccines can be fully implemented for older people who are registered until Easter. You wouldn't wait until Easter, you would wait until Christmas, because what you said about a vaccine is a Christmas delivery. You will be talking before Easter about how you will be inoculating people at Christmas, but by then the protection of all Hungarians who are registered should be established! By summer, we want to inoculate all humans to create immunity for all humans. We can inoculate 3.5 million more people by the end of May because we also ordered vaccines from the East, and not just do what you do by sitting back, putting your hands together, what you say in Brussels is good, what you don't say, we don't deal with, so you accept the vaccines approved by the EMA and bought by the European Commission, and the rest you don't. You are more Brussels than Brussels because President Von der Leyen, former President Jean-Claude Juncker and former Vice-President Timmermans are all criticizing Brussels procurement, all saying that it is opaque, slow [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Insufficient capacity. But you're even defending what the creators of this whole thing don't think is safe anymore. How irresponsible this is for Hungarian people and for DK's ordinary voters! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-59	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not accept the answer, even if I am aware that your job obligation is to lie. [[Moore on the governing party benches. Dr. Peter Hoppál: Ha-ha-ha!]] Unlike your spiritual leader, Viktor Orbán, who, on the other hand, is doing this for some compulsive pleasure. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: We lied this morning, night and night!]] You can't account for the chaos you've caused, you can't account for the vaccine and breathing business, you can't account for why you had to intervene, you have billions of dollars in profits, scouts and raiders. They can't account for 17,000 deaths, they can't account for thousands of other deaths in proportion to time, more people died in this or last year than they did in the same period last year. They can't account for 5,500 displaced health workers, they can't account for the destruction of health care, the 400,000 unemployed, the enrichment of the Orbán and Ripper families. You failed, you lied! Thank you very much. I don't accept your answer. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: We lied this morning, night and night!]]
u2021-03-16-60	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance: "Do all life really matter to you, or is it only about making public money? The title (t) is " (t) '. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, the interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-16-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would think that the Ministry of Finance was clearly responsible for answering the question, and I looked at the fact that none of their representatives were sitting here anyway. But then, of course, we will be forced to settle for Secretary Schanda's reply again. I'd like to ask you here to allow me not to try to outline all kinds of false political analyses and to distract attention. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ask for it yourself.]] I want you to give me a meaningful answer, please, to the question. So, unfortunately, the fact that Hungary has been drifting from crisis to crisis for a year now is now the fact that we are at the same time in a health crisis and in an economic crisis, and now there is also a social crisis. There is no governance in Hungary, because you do not govern. You have failed to take the measures that a responsible government should have taken in such a period of time and are unable to operate the state systems in which hundreds of billions have otherwise been invested in in recent years. It was one of the ectant examples of this, which is a very sad case, that, for example, the mass vaccination had to be postponed on one weekend, because the public institutions, the registers, were unable to function, and you were unable to organise it. By the way, even though you're talking about how many people should be vaccinated, yes, a lot of people should be vaccinated, but you can't solve it. Yeah, we should be moving forward by now. Why aren't we there? Because you didn't get the vaccines the way you were supposed to, because you couldn't run the state at all. They point to everyone here, to the European Union, to many times, unfortunately, tragically to the Hungarian people, but they cannot see their own responsibility. And who's talking about opening up here? Today has come up many times. Well, you guys were the one talking. I don't know who started a national consultation on the reopening, do I? I don't think it's the opposition! [[Péter Cseresnyés' intervention.]] However, they have time to organise hundreds of billions of public funds for private foundations, for example, Fidesz. Why don't you tell me why we need this? What is the need for private fidesz foundations to receive sailing ports, to receive ex-worker base, to receive castles, to receive MOL and Richter shares? By the way, Mathius, for example, Corvinus College [[L. Simon László: Mathias!]] You will receive 500 billion forints of wealth, about one third of which you are destined for full Hungarian higher education. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Matheus is a football player, Mathias is the king!]] Right? What we are talking about here is that it is clear to us that you are preparing to fail in 2022 and how you will try to ensure their operation after this. You're terrified of failure. It's clear that people see that this team is out of control, you're out of control, you see that public money is being shoveled out. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: This is LMP!]] And they do expect to be accounted for. We're gonna give you this. We'll hold everyone involved in squashing the public funds, because you're directing the money to your cashier. Then I ask the Secretary of State that this would then be crisis management, not the government crisis, but the people, the Hungarian people, are in trouble. How do you help them? [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-03-16-62	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, Deputy Minister, will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-03-16-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It's always an honor to be able to answer to you. [[Defiance of the governing party in benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Elegant!]] So I hope that I can answer all the questions you are asking here in Parliament not only last week, but also this week and next week. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and At the same time, it is true that there is much to bear in this genre, that can be confused within certain limits, but the facts remain facts. [[15.10]] The fact is that the Communist successor party, which is your predecessor, completely screwed up the previous crisis management in 2008. The working people were devastated by high taxes, and he brought the country to the brink of ruins. It is also a fact, honourable Member, that the party where you parachuted has since lost face and has completely given up on your principles. That is where we are now, honourable Member, and it is also a fact that your change seems completely pointless, as everything goes on according to the old recipe, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány. Madam Member, the Hungarian people have once suffered the crisis management and the economic policy that the left has shown, which has led to huge, record high unemployment and low employment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You criticized the government's epidemiological measures, vaccination measures. Allow me to draw your attention once again to what has already been discussed several times on this sitting day, that, unlike what you said two weeks ago, a mass vaccination has been carried out, hundreds of thousands of people have been vaccinated despite the fact that you, on the left, are trying to dissuade people over and over again to accept the vaccine, to accept the vaccine, to bring fear and uncertainty to the lives of the Hungarian people again and again. Hundreds of thousands of people were vaccinated then, and hundreds of thousands of people have been vaccinated ever since. The fact that you said completely pointless things in your speech, and you said things that were out of place, most of all, proves that Hungary is the second place in Europe in terms of grafting. I simply cannot understand, honourable Member, why you want to have this result taken away. Why don't you say it here at the National Assembly, and why don't you talk about working together, getting even better results, inoculating more Hungarian people, and allowing as many Hungarian people as possible to get the vaccinations? That takes two things. One is not to doubt Hungarian people that all vaccinations are a good solution, all vaccinations protect us from the virus and, on the other hand, that it is necessary to support the government's actions. Ladies and gentlemen, these figures show that the Hungarian vaccination plan is working, the Hungarian protection measures are working, as we can see that Hungary has the best vaccination after Malta, 1 million 347 000 people have already received at least one vaccine. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It also shows that we need to work together to fight the virus. Therefore, I also ask you not to attack government measures, but to help them and not to dissuade the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-16-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask the congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2021-03-16-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I cannot accept the answer. Secretary of State, 143 people have passed away. This is today's data, and every single person is a family father, a family mother, a grandparent, a child. Don't get me wrong. Do not speak out, because not only does the government not govern, but does not use its time to try to govern and take measures as efficiently as possible at least the next year, but, for example, to include an intermediary company in the import of the Chinese vaccine, which is otherwise registered in a Pacific republic. So, when Péter Szijjártó tells himself that he is constantly negotiating with everyone, and every day he tries to get the vaccinations as efficiently as possible, then it is entirely unnecessary to install this intermediary company, because it means that the foreign minister is extremely effective, or if this company has been installed, Mr. Secretary of State, then the only question is how much money you will receive from it. Thank you.
u2021-03-16-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As you have heard, the Congresswoman has not accepted the Secretary of State's reply, so I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will still be taken today. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The government is willing to follow the proposals of opposition parties, municipalities and modify the vaccination strategy so that there are no chaotic scenes similar to the weekend of 6 March? It's an address. I would like to inform you that Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The situation in Faramuc has developed today that people who listen only to the government or from government media are becoming more and more angry. Of course, they're not angry with the government, they're angry with the general public, because you and the public media are told every day that everything is fine here, and we're very cool, we're European champions in vaccination. But when they call the GP to get their shots, two things can happen. One is that they can't reach the GP because the poor guys work so hard, they put out so much they can't answer the phone. The other is that when they reach the general practitioner, they get the answer that they are out of vaccine, they have no new delivery, so they can't get the vaccine. In the meantime, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has repeatedly guaranteed mass vaccination. On December 18, 2020 he said: "Today there are conditions for a general national vaccination in a day or two. On 19 January 2021 he said that we are also prepared to inoculate one million people in two days. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, Then how is it that only 13,000 people were vaccinated yesterday while there are vaccines, 120,000 Pfizer vaccines arrived today? How come there's a lot of crowds, crowds, waiting in line at the injection sites? How can the President of the Hungarian Medical Chamber of Győr-Moson-Sopron, László Szijjártó, say that there are serious problems with the delivery of vaccines in general doctors? Mr Secretary of State, if Viktor Orbán really guaranteed this, how could the mass vaccination have been stopped on the weekend of 6 March? So I'm asking you not to respond to success communication, not propaganda, because that's not what you're looking for. They want to know when the vaccine will be given, quickly, with minimal waiting for those who are already registered. For this, we think the best method is mass vaccination with as many injection points as possible. That is why several opposition authorities offered their assistance. In addition, the Szombathely local government has set up rennet points, Budapest has set up 6 additional rennet points, but we are also planning to set up additional ones. However, you refused to do so without any technical justification. Mr. Secretary of State, there is no pro-government fire point, no opposition fire point, there is only a life-saving, effective, quick fire point! You should get out of this party thinking. Just now, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda told us to work together. This is your chance, Mr. Secretary. Let's work together. Be kind, get off the high horse, use the help of opposition and non-protective authorities, or give professional reasons why it is not necessary. Tell us also how the Prime Minister's earlier promise will be kept. So my questions are: on what professional grounds have the local authorities rejected the vaccination points, and how do they intend to carry out the mass vaccination? I'm waiting for your answer. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-03-16-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, One of your questions, I think, is that it's endearing and eternal when you said why people weren't vaccinated this weekend with the vaccine that came in today. I think it's better to ask that question in literature than in mathematics. But this is the state of the Hungarian opposition, the Hungarian left. It is very similar to the other, when you said why we would not inoculate people until Easter with European delivery futures vaccines for Christmas. Mr President, it is clear from this that you are completely frivolous, when there is a government measure, it does not matter to you what it is, you are attacking it, which is why one week you say that you need an opening, and the next week you need closure. Honourable Member, Hungary would be in a lot of trouble if we organised the defence accordingly. You may have been watching today's press conference of the operational tribe, saying that since every batch of manufacturing, every vaccine coming from the East, will be examined separately by the medical labs, they will have been examined and 280,000 Sputnik and 450 thousand Sinopharm vaccines can start vaccinations that came to the country earlier. [[15.20]] They just finished their labs. Since only effective and safe vaccines can be given to Hungarian citizens, they have been examined by the National Health Centre and they can be used for vaccination, and they will be given a new pace. If you were to control the defense, of course, not only would the 280 thousand or 450 thousand not have been tested, but it would not have worked in Hungary, because you have collected signatures to prevent such vaccines from arriving in Hungary, honourable Member. As regards the other question regarding municipalities, for example, in Szombathely, the local government office asked the municipality to help general practitioners in administrative work. They didn't help. Three weeks ago, they didn't help a single person, but they stood up after three weeks, and they held a well-sounding political press conference saying that it shouldn't be done that way, it should be done that way. You are not helping the general doctors, the point of grafting now, when administrative tasks could be helped, but you say that the whole vaccination system should be changed, the vaccination system, honourable Member, which is the second most effective in Europe. France, Germany, Belgium, what is behind Hungary? I do not think that there is much to say next to water polo, in which Hungary can traditionally say better performance than these countries. But thank God, in defence, in the administration of vaccines, Hungary is far more effective than these countries, and we are likely to be able to increase our results. Nearly twice the average in Hungary is grafted to the EU. This is because the system created by the leaders of the Union is not working. They have already seen this, President Von der Leyen said that the European Union was somewhat delayed in the process of authorising vaccines, too optimistic in terms of production, too confident in the fact that what it ordered was actually being delivered in time. Then Jean-Claude Juncker said that the purchase of vaccine was a very slow process, and I do not think it was done with the utmost transparency. This is what you are defending, honourable Member, this is something that the creators of this is not defending, but admitting their mistakes. If you looked at the international press from the New York Times to Die Weltig last week, they couldn't deny that Hungary is one of the most effective vaccination countries, one of the most effective vaccines. This type of vaccination system, which is one of the best results in Europe from the New York Times to Die Welt, everyone has to admit that it works better than the European vaccination system, you would want to beat it with a pen stroke and instead introduce something unknown, with the logic that your party president Gergely Christmas did, that if there was an epidemic, when everyone had to be isolated as much time as possible, you would have invited people to the Chain Bridge for the weekend to infect each other there, even luckily, that the operational tribe could talk you out of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio to accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-71	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The question could not be answered. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: I answered!]] How meaningless the municipalities want, for example, to discuss this in Section XVI. District Fidesz government, mayor. So he wants a pointless thing, too? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Did you invite people to the Chain Bridge?]] You've been very, very, very ill informed about Szombathely. On Saturday, the GPs told me what they wanted, not what you wanted, but what they wanted. That's what you didn't do. Dear Secretary of State, We can kick each other's words here, but one thing's for sure: mass vaccination is not that people are in one place in a crowd to get shots. It's that people go into empty places and have as little contact as possible. It's mass vaccination. Dear Secretary of State, Chronic patients over 60 who are registered will certainly not accept this answer, so I won't accept it either.
u2021-03-16-72	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. The decision will take place at our meeting later today. Ladies and gentlemen, Member István Bajkai, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:, What is Gergely Christmas's owner of the public money entrusted to him? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The answer will be given by Secretary of State Miklós Soltész on behalf of Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, A few days ago, Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus spoke in a statement that the capital will be insolvent by November this year. A thoughtful statement, especially if we know the financial situation and the development of Budapest. It follows from the data of the Hungarian State Treasury that while Gergely Christmas took over the capital with HUF 160 billion of sovereign debt in the autumn of 2019, in the spring of 2021 only HUF 43 billion remained on the sovereign wealth. This is a loss of 117 billion for the first time, but consider also the fact that in 2020 nearly HUF 30 billion less business tax had been paid to the capital. Thus, in a year and a half, about HUF 80 billion was lost from Budapest's assets, although there were no large-scale developments or large expenditures that would justify this loss. Where does the money go? You can only guess. Consultants, army of deputies, newly appointed executives of the capital, ask and receive millions of salaries and rewards. I'm in the middle of an inexpensive contract. The constant complaint campaign also costs money. Gergely Christmas is on the right path to a repeat of the Zugló bankruptcy, but at just one higher level. We remember that Christmas in 2014 took over with a stable financial position, a multibillion-dollar reserve. then in 2019 he moved on with only HUF 50 million left in the account of the district with 120,000 inhabitants. The money didn't go to development there either. Zugló has become a city credul from a district that has started to develop and is on the verge of bankruptcy. It worked on loans, and it also owed debts to its own municipal companies. It looks like the same fate awaits Budapest, and even Gergely Christmas raised the stakes, taking the government's wage subsidies off the account of the companies in Budapest in distress during one of the most difficult times of the epidemic. Even though the most difficult-cased hosts asked the capital for a discount, the wage support, which could save companies and jobs, now travels to Budapest's account as an industrialist's lecturer, the money bag that already has an 80 billion-dollar hole on it. What does Christmas Gregory do in this situation? He's pulling away from the public. Speechful behavior. I respectfully ask Mr. Secretary of State how the government appreciates the management of Gergely Christmas. In what situation does it navigate the capital, and what can the outrageous withdrawal of wage subsidies lead to? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Miklós Soltesz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is true that Gergely Christmas and the current left-wing city leadership actually started on the same trail, doing the same thing as the failed Demszky left-wing city leadership before 2010. Two things were most marked by them and their whole activity, both irresponsible farming and corruption. About irresponsible farming, I think, there are a lot of things that could be classified, but some of them have to be said anyway. Hundreds of billions of forints were left missing by the capital when it was handed over to the right-wing city administration, István Tarlós. All this deficit could be corrected by the government with a consolidation of HUF 270 billion in order to do everything in the interests of the people of the capital, so that they could live in this city, because it is very important for us to make this city beautiful and good. In the same way, when you think about the investments that have been made at the very least in the city, how much trouble they have caused, it has already become corrupt. If you look at the question of subway 4, subway 4 was one of Europe's biggest corruption scandals, it was also carried by the Demszky leadership and left-wing leadership. [[15.30]] Other investments were not exactly left behind by the left-wing city leadership, and if you think about how much corruption there was, let's say, the Hagyó case, the nokiscans, and you could name this madness further, indeed you had something to learn, it looks like the Gergelys Christmas, because they continue the same bad, yet left-wing tradition, even with inadequate city management and economic chaos, and continue with corruption-suspecting cases. Let me think about the economic chaos. Industrialisation tax revenue for the capital city, if you look at the whole country, is 37% of what comes to the capital, compared to this, the capital population is 17 percent of the country's population. Many would welcome this huge sum, and all Gregory Christmas does is cry and moan. Nearly 44 percent of the domestic funds in Brussels reach the capital, not elsewhere, but the capital, even though 17 percent of the population of the capital reaches the capital. And despite that, what does Gergely Christmas do? She's crying and whining. When you think about it, 2009 In the autumn, as you said, it was a reserve of HUF 172 billion, of which 160 billion were sovereign debt to the capital, compared with now, 2011 (sic!) Forty-three billion forints in the spring of the year. Where'd he go? What did they do to him? Do we see any improvements? We can't see anything they've invested. As you said, all of this, in just a year and a half, 80 billion forints of wealth disappeared to the capital. Meanwhile, he acts like a grumpy child: he blackmails and scratches entrepreneurs, he takes 2 billion forints back from accessibility programs, so he also rips off people with disabilities, 41 mayor consultants, Jávor Benedek's Brussels office, poster campaign costs 500 million forints for taxpayers, metro line 3 for 10 billion forints, experts for this plus 1 billion forint, the BKV bus tenders were fake, Lanchid plus 5.5 billion. All I can say to this mayor is, read Dirty Fred and Jimmy's conversation, help him cry? It's done. There's nothing else we can offer him. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-03-16-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Congressman István Bajkai to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-77	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] which is deep and has fully demonstrated all the irresponsibleness that the left is actually representing, in particular, as mayor of Gergely Christmas. If we want to find a common feature between Ferenc Gyurcsány's life path and Gergely Christmas's political career, we can certainly highlight three elements. One is how to stab and betray our fellow partymen. Another common element is how to operate a lie on a daily basis for political implementation. The third is how to create bankruptcy situations with incompetence and incompetence. On the left, it seems that these three qualities, the lie, the killing of each other, and the total inadequacy to lead, for example, an economy or a city, are a good letter of recommendation for political achievement. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-03-16-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. The development of the road network means the future of the countryside. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Minister Tamás Schanda will answer you. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think we all agree that, as a result of the non-stop pandemic, we see an increasing need and need for it to be done properly, and not only for Hungary, but for the whole European Union, the multi-annual financial cycle after 2021. However, I do not want to talk about the European Union and, frankly, I do not even want to talk about the entire Hungarian road network and infrastructure development, but about my narrower country, because I have lived in Heves County since birth, and I was mayor there, and I think that in terms of local conditions, I can give the most meaningful account. But why, and what is the situation with regard to Heves County: in 2020 employment figures in Heves County were more than 5.2 percentage points below the national average, and they earned nearly 10 percent, to be exact, nine percent less than the national average. One of these can be found in the area of the development of the road network, in the absence of it, since, in recent years, road network improvements have been made, which are still inadequate, unsatisfactory, and for an undertaking, the primary and most important objective for a tourist undertaking or business is how quickly and in what capacity it can reach the area, thus enabling it to plant its business, but without this, this business development is not. The development of the road network in this area is extremely important both economically and from a tourist point of view, and I can safely say that the development of the road network in the countryside, which, by the way, may not last but by chance attract the safety, safety and quality of life of the people there, otherwise it can also strengthen the preservation of the countryside. The two-track expansion of Highway 23 could be a major step forward, the completion of the western bypass road in Gyönyös and the development of road networks between small settlements, and the development of road networks across small settlements. I took the trouble to consult with the mayors in the county development program. Although some mayors have been instructed not to answer my questions and requests, thank God, many have done so, and on this basis, as their opinion reflects this, I ask you: what does the government intend to do about the development of lower roads, and to take action in terms of the development and catching up of the detaching regions as a result of the renewal of road networks? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2021-03-16-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You mentioned Gyöngyös, which is why we should not go without saying what's going on in the city. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Why, what is going on?]] As memorable, the left-wing mayor of the city, supported by you, is not interested in the road network or the fate of the people in the city. He was also busy with the coronal virus epidemic about how to receive VIP medical care and vaccination. This is truly outrageous, and it shows the whole left-wing attitude that they only care about themselves and that you have no interest in anything else. Honourable Congressman, [[László Varju intervenes.]] [[László Varju intervenes.]] The Hungarian government prioritises the development of road infrastructure (László Varju intervenes) Not as your allies did when they were in power. In the course of the road programme, around HUF 3200 billion will be developed in total between 2016 and 2024. Between 2010 and 2021, we built an order of 530 kilometers of motorway traffic. In 2010, the situation was that only three two-track motorways had reached the border, and 14 county-right cities were available, whereas today seven motorways have reached the border and 20 county-rights can be reached. These improvements will also be carried forward. The development of the section between Bátony terenye and Szentdomonkos of Highway 23, mentioned by you, is also included in the road programme, honourable Member. On the other hand, I am pleased to inform you that, according to the government's decision, the preparation of 74 road projects will begin, including the project initiated by László Horváth, Member of Parliament in the region, and this is the way around Gyöngyöst. [[15.40]] In the western phase, the preparation of the export plan has already been completed under the road programme, this year the acquisition of land and the procurement procedure for the selection of the contractor can be launched, and as a continuation of the western bypass, we have also started preparing the northern bypass, and the study plan and the preparation of the environmental work parts are already under way. Honourable Congressman, Please also allow me to inform you that road renovation has been completed between 2010 and 2020 on the national road network in Heves County for 204 kilometres from EU and domestic sources, and that in 2021 a total of 567 road renovation projects will be completed at 1518 kilometres and in 22 additional 26 road sections will be completed. Honourable Congressman, You also referred to employment data, allow me to draw your attention to the facts here as well. As a result of the significant job creation of local businesses in the county, employment levels have improved from 52,6 percent to 69.1 percent in the last decade, the number of people employed has increased by 18,000 over ten years, while the number of unemployed has fallen to less than one third. The result is also that the county net earnings have doubled since the change of government in 2010. I ask the honourable Member not to ignore these results and not to underestimate the performance of the people of intensity, because when he does not speak of these results, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Then you'll deny their results, too. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Róbert Dudás to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-03-16-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd be happy to accept an answer, but it's not an answer I've heard from the Secretary of State. By the way, I thank you for pointing out the difference between theory and practice, and the Secretary of State's reply shows very well that the problem of the countryside cannot be seen from Budapest. By the way, you talked about what Canaan is in the country, how many hundreds or thousands of kilometers have been renovated all over the country, but you have just left out that more roads have been built than the Romans, because we are already there. Mr State Secretary, please, I have not criticized the government, I have drawn attention to tasks, and believe me, for the people of the countryside, these tasks are of particular importance for the future, for their lives, for their living space and for their families' living space. There will be another campaign period soon, campaign-to-campaign promises of these road improvements [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Which you just told me about. I am asking you and your fellow Members not to promise me now, simply do it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-16-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. The decision will take place later today. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman János Harghitai, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: what measures can the government use to protect the Hungarian economy? It's an address. Mr President, by replying to the interpellation, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is competent and competent according to the subject, to answer his request, Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The Orbán governments got out of crisis management, and I remind all of us that before 2010, when the world economic crisis swept through the world, the socialist government of that time, properly embedded in this global crisis, brought the country into a state of pre-budget bankruptcy. This crisis at the time, which was also a budgetary crisis, was consolidated by the Orbán government, and the measures at that time called unorthodox managed to avoid the crisis and the deep crisis. We have come to the point that Hungary has already been able to produce a very spectacular economic growth in pre-coronal viral epidemics, and in the last two fiscal years before the crisis, they have reported an increase of around 5%. Now, this is completely crushed by the coronal virus epidemic, this economically emerging course, and we are now facing the economic difficulties caused by the virus. In the autumn of last year, when this health crisis hit us, the Orbán government, feeling that it will obviously be job losses, since the number of contacts must be reduced, and it is impossible to survive without narrowing movements between economic operators, and the result will be that the economy is clearly falling back, if the economy falls back, jobs will be lost, and since the focus of the Orbán government's thinking was at some point on creating jobs, it has now rightly set out that these jobs should be preserved, or if we cannot preserve them, they should be rebuilt as soon as possible. We also said at the time that as many jobs as the epidemic stops, we will rebuild so much. By the end of last year, this was seen on the basis of statistical figures, yes, but there is a second wave of the pandemic, even a third wave, and this situation also forces the government to take further measures to return to the growth path that we were forced to leave due to the virus after the health crisis. I would ask the Secretary of State to take into account the economic policy measures taken by the Government on this subject and also to state the results of economic policy measures. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, Deputy Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, due to the irresponsible, harmful governance of the left, and completely ignoring the interests of the Hungarian people, our country will be on the verge of bankruptcy by 2010. We remember well that unemployment was at its peak, people were driven into foreign exchange loans, and workers were burdened with unbearable burdens. As a result, the national civilian government had to solve serious problems in order to strengthen the Hungarian economy and increase the living standards of people, because we believe in creating people's value and working, so instead of humiliating aid, we build a work-based economy, and instead of framing families, we implement a series of family-friendly measures that help Hungarian families. Honourable Congressman, However, the coronal virus epidemic is a threat to many of our achievements, and jobs are now being threatened in the third wave of the virus. This period is very difficult for many Hungarians. We help those affected by this, those who are in a difficult situation, we leave no one on the side of the road. Among other things, we give 50 percent wage support to those who work in services that are now shut down, such as hairdressers, beauticians, shopkeepers. In addition, the government abolished the employer's contribution in the sectors in question for the whole of March, so that about two thirds of the wage is covered, which ensures that businesses remain on their feet, retain jobs, and retain skilled professionals. In addition, the rent for public or municipal property in March is not payable by the undertakings involved in tightening up. However, we also made the HUF 10 million fast loan available to the businesses concerned. Honourable Congressman, In the fourth quarter of 2020, the European Union's economy fell by 4.8 percent compared to the same period of the previous year, while Hungary's economy fell by only 4.3 percent, while Spain fell by 9.1 percent, Austria by 7.8 percent, Italy by 6.6 percent and France by 5 percent. [[15.50]] Compared to the third quarter, the Hungarian economy grew, so it achieved the fifth best in the EU in the last quarter of 2020. This shows the success of government measures in an international comparison. Honourable Congressman, The government has taken further important measures to strengthen and protect the economy. We reduced the VAT on housing to 5 percent, and even those who buy a new home with CSOK as of 1 January can do this without VAT. In fact, we also provide a total tax exemption for families. But we also give families six million HUF discount loans for the renovation of the apartments, of which three million HUF is non-refundable. The restoration of the 13th month pension started, which was taken from the Hungarian pensioners by the left-wing representatives. As I have already mentioned, we give zero percent credit to companies in distress up to HUF 10 million; we give wage subsidies; we provide a wage increase to doctors and we give young people under the age of 25. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr János Harghitai to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2021-03-16-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. From this day forward, here in Parliament, I got what I expected. Left representatives say A and B from the same mouth, blow cold and warm. That's how it's been. This is reflected here in their position on dealing with the crisis, in the way they deal with the health crisis. I do not claim that left-wing representatives are so vicious that they want to take direct political advantage of this crisis; I do not say that they are anti-vaccination, although their position has changed considerably, they have been against certain vaccines, and they still have prominent speakers who speak against vaccines. One thing I can say for sure, however, they are interested in taking as much political advantage as possible from this crisis, and this is what makes them say such short-term speeches. Don't push the wheel, go that way. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What you've planned for you in the context of economic recovery! Thank you for the answer, I accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-90	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative Sándor Szabó has submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet in charge of the management of national assets:, Can you guarantee that we will get the Csepel heat back? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Andrea Máger has appointed Secretary of State János Fónagy. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-91	Thank you very much. Still Szabolcs and not Alexander.
u2021-03-16-92	Excuse me.
u2021-03-16-93	It's okay.
u2021-03-16-94	That's right, Szabolcs Szabó!
u2021-03-16-95	Thank you very much. You'll have to count in time. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] I would like to thank Mr State Secretary for his reply, and we have already had a question-and-answer on this matter. Our story begins there, I say to the others, perhaps who are less familiar with the story, that last summer they started renovating the Kvassay Bridge, so they built a temporary terminal for the Csepel HÉV in front of the Kvassay Bridge, on the Csepel side, and from there we can enter Boráros tér by a replacement bus. Then it was said that it would work for six months, and from 1 January we could travel again in the entire section with the HÉV. The bridge was completed, but it turned out that the construction of the underpass connected to the athletic stadium had slipped. When we talked about this here in Parliament at the beginning of December 2020, you could not give us a specific date, Mr Secretary of State, saying that the procurement procedure is still under way, when it is completed and the contractor takes over the work area, you can tell us how long it will last. Meanwhile, the contractor took over the work area, and they now promise that the deadline is 31 August 2021. That's what they told us last time. So six months turned 14 months, so no one apologized to the passengers in Csepel or in the area, but I'm putting that aside, they'd be happy. By the way, they are very upset, thousands of petitions have been signed specifically because they are upset about it. But why I would now appeal to the Ministry by interpellation, and so personally to the Secretary of State, that this second deadline, which is no longer working, will be a 14-month closure, can now be guaranteed. So we can take it as granite that we can take the HÉV from September 1st? Can the government and so Secretary of State guarantee that this HÉV will go through the entire stretch of Boráros tér, and are you sure they'll release the HÉV back there? And if this doesn't happen a second time, and the six months or fourteen months' closure won't be real, but we have to continue to take the replacement bus, will anyone, either you or anyone else, take the personal consistency and resign because they've managed to mislead us on this for the second time? Thank you very much and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause for the independents.]]
u2021-03-16-96	I'm sorry again. Secretary of State János Fónagy will answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-03-16-97	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Szabolcs Szabó, Thank you for correctly presenting the history of your interpellation, indeed. There was an investment, the Kvassay Bridge, the importance of which, I suppose, neither the Csepelians nor you contested, it was a bridge that worked for more than half a century with very significant traffic, and the work could not be delayed any longer. Indeed, it was intended to be coordinated at the same time as the other investment in that area, and accordingly the HÉV seal giving the construction area of both areas will be reduced to the shortest possible extent. If you question the reality of our intentions, it is obviously the right of Members of Parliament, but I ask you not to question our interests, the obviousness of that. Why do you think the government or the Minister without a wallet intends to annoy the people of Csepel despite our own interests? That wasn't the intention. The intention was to implement both developments by 31 December of last year. I suppose you do not doubt that all of Budapest will be enriched with ongoing developments, including the South-Pest region, including Csepel, with all the investments and developments that will take place in the region. It is obvious, and it is the same for us all over the world that a development affects local relations, affects the occasional comfort of residents there, and also affects the transport of public service vehicles. This is true in all cities and cities around the world. Therefore, your interpellation in this respect does not mean a novum in the Hungarian Parliament or in the history of parliamentarism. However, I ask you to accept that the laws on the preparation of investments must be respected, which is called public procurement. Nor do I reveal any particular secret, and in every state in Europe where there is a public procurement law, it is said everywhere that public procurement is necessary because of transparency, such as democratic requirements, but it is added everywhere, also here, that public procurement slows down development and sometimes covers forecast timetables, i.e. investment timetables. This is the case with us, with a development of more than 200 billion dollars in the region, and the public procurement process has been delayed, and as a result we are indeed forced to ask for the patience of Csepel's population until 30 August, according to our current knowledge. If you are already questioning the rationality of my arguments, and that is undoubtedly your right, I ask you not to question my manners. Please believe that we apologized where we could. In her letter to the mayor of Csepel, the Minister apologized to the Csepel community. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Not that it's fundamentally improving things, but I'm asking you not to discuss this part. There's no guarantee, we have valid contracts, and if they don't comply, we're gonna sanction them. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.00]]
u2021-03-16-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will now ask Mr Szabolcs Szabó to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-99	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, there is a big difference between a letter written to the mayor long after the deadline has expired, saying that he is very sorry, and that it is quite different if you stand before the Csepelians and say that we are people, we are sorry. I take it that you didn't get a concrete guarantee that you were going to walk the month or not, because you said you were going to try. It is called governance that I coordinate things, such as investments, and I take responsibility, I guarantee that a certain investment or linked investments will be carried out when, how, for how long. And it's not that I think you're trying to annoy the Csepelians, you're just annoying us because we can't travel. There was a working HÉV, they said it wouldn't work for six months, now they're saying it won't work for 14 months, and they don't want to guarantee that. The reason I was afraid of Mr. Secretary of State was that he wouldn't end up like the Csepel Pipe Factory, because they're still mad at you, by the way, and that's what I want to avoid. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's what we do.]] Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]] (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.)
u2021-03-16-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. He didn't say he'd accept it or accept it. [[Szabolcs Szabó: I do not accept.]] So you didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place later today at our meeting. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office: "Where did you get my children's data? It's an address. Madam Member, I would like to inform you that State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer you. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I would like to draw attention to a problem about the state of our personal data in Hungary today, the protection they are under. A few days ago, my twin girls received a personal letter asking them if they wanted to join a twin register that they wanted to create in the management of Semmelweis University. I say in advance that I fully agree with this research, this call to me and my children, but I have not received an answer to one question, which is included in the information letter. Allow me to read from this:, I inform you that neither your name, address or any other personal data has been released to the university. This letter was sent by LXVI of 1992 on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses. Law 18 According to Section 4 of the Act, according to which the district office sends a notification to the person concerned on request for contact. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There are several reasons why I submitted this interpellation because imagine that about 160,000 people were posted to the 21st century. a personal letter from the district government office in Csepel. I wanted to find out one question from the government office which district office should have sent this letter on the basis of the attached letter, since my children live in my household in Kaban, Hajdú-Bihar county. Turns out everyone got it from Csepel. I called the government office in Csepel, where I was told that Semmelweis University had sent the address to the government office. So I told them to read the letter they sent out, because it says they couldn't send any personal data to the university. The other problem is, they refused to negotiate with me from now on. I called the Budapest government office, the central government office, where they admitted that such a thing had happened, that this information letter had been sent to the address of 160,000 people, but they could not tell at whose request and how the address of this 160,000 people came to this government office. I would very much like to know, Mr Secretary, how did the XXI. The personal data of my children for the district. My other question, since my children became twins through a flask program, is not in any official document, not even in the birth certificate that they were born from twin pregnancy. KSH also acknowledges in Hungary that there is no official record of births in Hungary. There is only one dossier in the final report containing patient data. I ask the Secretary of State how 160,000 people's personal data and patient data came to the Csepel government office. That's what I'd like you to answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-03-16-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm trying to answer you objectively, and I'm trying to tell you the things that you've asked me in a clear way. At Semmelweis University, a population-based twin register is made. As of 15 February 2021, the Government Office of Budapest Capital sent out a letter of information to all twin couples in the country, in which Semmelweis University draws attention to joining the Hungarian twin register, of course only voluntarily. With the help of the registration twins, one of the world's largest medical-related twin databases can be created, and I stress once again, completely voluntarily. Legal background: LXVI of 1992 on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses. by law, any legal person or entity without legal personality shall be entitled to request the registration body to provide information on the name, address and address of the notification address for the purpose and legal basis of the use for the purpose of scientific research. On the basis of the legislation referred to, the applicant may apply to any district office and to the designated government office for the purpose of contacting the district office or the designated government office for the person designated by him or her, to ask for his or her written consent to provide the applicant with the details of his or her name, address or address, or to inform him or her to contact him directly if he or she wishes to contact him or her. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On 14 December 2020, the Government Office of Budapest's Capital is the XXI. district office has submitted to the Ministry of Interior a request for information from the register on the identity and address of citizens in the government window department of Semmelweis University. The Ministry of Interior replied yes to this, and supported it, so the mailing of the notification letters began. The scope of the data provided: the name, date of birth and address of the citizens with the same birth date living on the day of selection were issued. Once again, what is already sent to the register is absolutely voluntary and not mandatory, so it can be rejected. The scope of personal data to be handled by the Hungarian twin register covers only the voluntary data of the members who register, which concerns the subjects of medicine, family research, social research and psychology. Data are only published in aggregated, strictly anonymous form, basically in scientific journals. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The source of the personal data to be processed is the person voluntarily registering for the twin register, who can provide his/her voluntary data on the above mentioned subject during a questionnaire or medical examination. These can be used for exclusive scientific research by the Hungarian twin register, and personal data should be handled and stored under the strictest confidentiality. Thank you very much for your attention, your understandable question, but I hope you have satisfied your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go. [[16.10]]
u2021-03-16-105	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for having read almost word for word the Act of the year, which provides for the issue of personal data. I have a problem with this information letter saying that the people involved should have been contacted by the district office. Now, there are 167 walks in the country, as I understand it, 166-167 walks, but all affected by the Csepel XXI. He got it from a district government office. I cannot accept Mr. Secretary of State's reply, and thank you for almost replying correctly because, when I called the Government Office, Budapest and XXI. district and the county of Hajdú-Bihar, no one could tell me who gave him the XXI. district, how did you get it, whose direction it was given, and why I would like to draw attention to the problem that you are entitled to feel that your own data is not safe, because it was not posted by the district office, but by a capital XXI. district government office. The other is that I think that by being born from twin pregnancy and being a twin child or even a flask child, I think that is already health data, which I think is subject to much stricter laws in Hungary. I'd like you to pay more attention to this, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-03-16-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform you, Congresswoman, and this House that, since you have not accepted the State Secretary's reply, we will now vote on this among the decisions. This brings us to the end of the interpellation negotiations. Dear House, Fellow Members! It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. However, before this happens, I would like, as usual, to carry out a presence check, so that we are aware that everyone's voting machine is working. Please press one of the buttons on the voting machine now. [[Attendance check.]] 141 Members present, 58 are absent, the Parliament has a quorum. Is everyone's computer okay? I would like to ask the hall service to check the State Secretary's horseshoe, and I would also like to see the voting machine of Mr Bence Rétvári, Mr Lajos Rig. The technical staff can take a look at this. Anyone else? [[Sándor Wolf reporting.]] Please note that the machine before Minister István Nagy is reset, because Secretary of State Sándor Farkas indicates that his machine is not working. We're about to ask our tech guys if he's okay. So, Lajos Rig, Sándor Farkas, Bence Rétvári, the feedback that is all right. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. Mr Mihály Witzmann has received a motion for the waiver of the immunity of our Fidesz Member of Parliament on 3 March 2021 4.Bpk.384/2020/6. on the private charge of defamation and defamation of defamation from the Siófok District Court. The president of the Parliament gave this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/15445. Mr Mihály Witzmann presented a proposal for a resolution on the immunity of our fellow Member of Parliament. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to President János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has been said here, he contacted Parliament in the transcript of the Siófok District Court in the case of the suspension of Mr Witzmann's immunity for the offence of defamation and defamation of defamation. On 8 August 2020, Congressman Witzmann made a Facebook entry on his site. Then he was moved by the destruction of his representative's office, by various texts. The congressman himself in this Facebook post records that he doesn't know who did it. It is true that he mentions three persons, the mayor of Siófok, the representative of Siófok present, not accusing them that they did it, just saying that they were in a certain public area in connection with a similar case, and speaking another B. A. I know it's a lady who's an external member of a committee of the Siofok municipality. So in this respect, he's a public figure. She doesn't know that because at the end of her complaint, she claims that she is not a public figure, and therefore doesn't accept any suggestion that the congressman did in her Facebook post, and she did so in order to undermine her public confidence, the public confidence in her. So what I see is that the congresswoman has brought this case to herself, even though no one has specifically accused her of anything. I gave this example only because everything that is going on on on Facebook recently is a school example of why the Parliament has developed the practice of considering private indictment motions, if you will, to be a stalker for the functioning of the Parliament, and therefore to protect Members by not granting them immunity. At today's committee meeting, the immunity committee has also decided so, with a majority decision, we are proposing to the Parliament that we do not suspend the immunity of the Member on this matter. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-16-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask Mr Mihály Witzmann if he would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of MP Mihály Witzmann. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Mihály Witzmann by 4 votes in favour, 158 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today, in line with our agreed agenda. Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, I/15381. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 49 against and 1 abstention. [[16.20]] István Hiller, Member of the MSZP, Vice-President of the Parliament, I/15372. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 49 against and 1 abstention. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita reporting.]] We increase by one vote, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai did not accept it. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: The machine doesn't work.]] But I'm guessing it's not your vote. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Yes.]] And his computer's not working. I'd like to take a look at the operation of the machine. Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, I/15369. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 50 against and 1 abstention. Did Congresswoman Zita Gurmai's computer just work? [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Yes!]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, I/15366. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 51 against and 1 abstention. Congressman Kárcsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, I/15376. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 50 against, with 1 abstention. Congressman Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, I/15374. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 112 votes in favour, 50 against, with 1 abstention. Szabolcs Szabó is an independent Member of I/15270. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 111 votes in favour, 49 against and 1 abstention. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, I/15378. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 113 votes in favour, 49 against and 1 abstention. Now it's time for immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr. Péter Jakab and Congressman György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? The word belongs to Mr. Peter James, leader of the group. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-109	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! Prime Minister! There's a problem, not just small, and not just in the country, but obviously in there, and there's a connection between the two. You recently said that the Hungarian economy is performing better during the crisis than the Austrian economy. In a big statement, Prime Minister, you are indeed doing better in that, but only in that. You know, with the Austrians, they give money to the troubled, they give money to the workers, they give money to the entrepreneurs, they give money to the municipalities. You keep the money for yourself, while in the middle of the crisis you say things about your dream to organize Hungary's Olympics and to play the Hungarian soccer team's World Championship Finals. Eat his heart. I have dreams, too. Me, you know what my dream is? ! That there are normally functioning health care, that thousands of people do not die because of the government's mistake, that the Hungarian worker is valued and that there is accountability, which is a nightmare to you! It's my dream, you know, and we're gonna make it happen. Fact is, your family's in the middle of the crisis. Your son, as you would say, has gone to a British elite school with a $40 million tuition, a crisis here, a crisis there. Your son-in-law received HUF 215 million of non-refundable funding, now not as a public lighting expert, but as an original producer. Your friend, Lőrinc Mészáros, has increased his fortune from 400 to 500 billion forints despite the crisis. In the meantime, what did the people get? Rising prices, rising unemployment, bankrupt businesses, and a promise that there will be community service. Your finance minister says that this year economic growth will be two figures in Hungary. You're obviously talking about raising the wages of public workers. It will indeed be two figures: 75 forints a day. Look, that's it, Prime Minister, exactly. Secretary of State, count to see if you can find it. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] Your economic performance is worth 75 forints. If you put it right, you can buy a bus ticket in five days, Mr. Secretary. Prime Minister! Is this your crisis management? This? ! Seventy-five forints raise? [[Fading and tumbling in the benches of the Jobbik.]] Half a million unemployed? Two million Hungarians living below the minimum living age? Crashing vaccination plan? 17,000 dead? Or is it the 5500 health workers you chased out of the health care system in one day when these people would have the highest respect? [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic. Noise. Intercoms.]] Is this your crisis management? Don't you feel like leaving? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-16-110	Mr. Fraction Manager, if you hadn't put it there and harassed the Secretary of State, you might have fit into your time frame. [[Interview from the benches of Fidesz: He practiced at home in front of the mirror.]] I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-03-16-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Congressman! I would like to inform you that businesses in a difficult situation during the crisis have been supported by the government in the following steps. We've introduced a wage subsidy. We have introduced a credit moratorium, which is the strongest in Europe. We have released contributions, reduced more taxes and provided substantial investment aid to save jobs. For three months, we'll provide you with a job search fee. Anyone who can't get a job in the meantime, we offer to participate in the public work programme. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Congratulations! The shortest...]] When your ally Ferenc Gyurcsány was Prime Minister, this opportunity did not exist. I would also like to inform you that, together with all this, there are 55,000 fewer people working today than a year ago. That's how many jobs we lost during the crisis. I will also tell you here that we have undertaken to create as many jobs as the epidemic will destroy. I'd like to repeat that. The current civil-national and Christian democrat government will create at least as many jobs as we lost during the epidemic, more than 55 thousand. If you want to be interested in the disease treatment, the bad example, you shouldn't be knocking on our door, but at your ally's: Ferenc Gyurcsány can give you good advice. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-112	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the leader of the faction. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-113	Thank you very much. He rarely tells the truth, he still doesn't. But he did say something on Sunday. On Sunday morning, he told you that you knew there were going to be problems here in November. He knew and did nothing about it, and even a month later, in December, he was messing with the amendment of the Fundamental Law and the electoral law, while letting the whole health care and the whole labour market collapse. In other countries, they have provided substantial financial assistance to businesses. You didn't do anything, you joined the liquidation business so that you could benefit from the misery of others. [[16.30]] This is the meanest, Prime Minister, the meanest! And the fact that when a country fights for survival, you're pompous about urinating, luxurious yachting, flying a luxury plane to the Maldives and Dubai, who eats, say, parizers, they look down on it and prod it. Well, that's exactly who you are. But it's okay, Prime Minister, there's still a dog coming. The bigger the face, the bigger the fall on the face! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Interviews from Fidesz: Lucky!]]
u2021-03-16-114	Dear Chief of Staff, It's a genre of questions and answers, not personal insults. Prime Minister's got the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-115	There is experience of a fall in the face, because you were the one who declared a great triumph and announced it in advance at the Szerencs interim election. [[Peter James: You've been sweating a lot, haven't you?]] And here, in front of the whole country, he fell on that big face he was just talking about. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Peter James: King of potatoes!]] And by the way, I have long watched the elements of your comments that are all about you being a poor man. But you're not telling the truth. You're a successful man. Why are you acting like this isn't happening? You're making millions of forints. Multiple millionaires. [[James Peter: And I still don't steal! That's the problem, isn't it? I'm not like you!]] We don't regret you, we're just confused about you playing the poor lad here, while you're making millions of forints every month, your own car, your own driver, your own secretariat, and you're blaming us for that. [[Peter James: I am not flying to the Maldives and Dubai! The president's ringing the bell.]] I think it's duplicity, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2021-03-16-116	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How is that?" It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, You recently stated that no one should turn disease management into a policy, and last time you said that it was already a low point. The same is thought of by the MSZP mayor of Szombathely, András Nemény, who is working with the government and the government to speed up vaccinations in Szombathely. However, the government does not comply with what you have said, it seems. Until the 16th. Districts V, Szekszárd and Szekszárd have also been given the opportunity to speed up the administration of vaccines by setting up municipal injection points, and this was banned at the last minute in opposition-led Szombathely for some reason. Although András Nemény, mayor of the city, agreed with the government office, at the request of the general doctors, to set up 16 injection points at 4 injection sites, now, at the last moment before today's departure, the office withdrew from the previous agreement. While István György, through the government commissioner, authorized the mayor in writing to create graft points. Accordingly, we have started working together. The chief of staff began to tour the premises according to the order and manner. The establishment of local government fireplaces is required by the fact that, according to general doctors, their practice is simply inadequate for mass vaccination, they cannot carry out the task of course entrusted to them. In addition, the municipality has already helped with a lack of organisation at a state injection point before, so they have repeatedly turned to the municipality for help. Before you accuse me or my associates of re-inoculation, Prime Minister, I respectfully ask you, who and why you suddenly instructed the government commissioner who had said yes, why Szombathely could not have been allowed to set fire points while other municipalities were given responsibility for the delay. Thank you for your reply.
u2021-03-16-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-03-16-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Indeed, first of all, I would like to ask you to stop your anti-vaccination campaign, which is irresponsible. You are constantly agitating against vaccinations, calling on people not to take the Chinese or Russian vaccine. We've injected half a million people with these vaccines. If we hadn't done that, hundreds of half a million people could have died. I would like to remind you that any person whose health is being destroyed or who dies because he has not taken the vaccine, because you have encouraged him not to do so, is personally responsible for their condition and their possible death. As regards the location and position of the points of grafting, I would like to inform the congresswoman that we are operating 5005 GPs in Hungary today, we operate 629 hospital fireplaces, 140 fireplaces in specialized clinics, regardless of whether the specialist is in state or municipal reserve. This is a total of 5774 graft points. In the event that more vaccines are available... because today there is a shortage of vaccine instead of a vaccination point. The reason why we can't extinguish faster is because there is no fire point, we can't extinguish faster because there are not enough vaccines because Brussels doesn't send what it has already done. Therefore, if there is enough vaccine, we will be able to increase the number of hospital injection points to 1547 and the number of clinical injection points to 200, i.e. a total of 6752 graft points. If this proves to be insufficient, we also have a plan to increase these numbers, but if this proves to be insufficient, we will be happy to receive all the help we can get. At this moment, these vaccination points are sufficient to allow the vaccinations to be administered. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-120	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-121	Prime Minister! All I expected, by the way, was to bring you what we're used to. But I'm asking you who you're going to listen to if you're not to the primary care professionals who specifically requested that you not be able to take care of the current vaccination, so they asked for help. I'll ask who's against vaccination. The one who wants to create graft points because he wants to help make the current vaccination, or the one who's blocking it? I don't want you to find out by any chance about a city leader in opposition, Prime Minister, that you're capable of helping the government, and you might be able to organize it even better. What you need to understand, Prime Minister, is that it is not in itself a successful disease management that we are in second place in the EU in proportion to our population. 'Cause we're at the top of our list of mortality figures. And you said that death would be a standard for you. Take these two into consideration. I know you're putting the blame on death, but the delay between the two waves is that from August to November, you didn't actually do anything. [[An uproar in the ranks of the Fidesz.]] And yet, Prime Minister, even now, in February, when the third wave was here, you launched a consultation on the opening on 17 February rather than paying the caterers and closing. Don't let any more people die in this country just because you're late a lot, Prime Minister.
u2021-03-16-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-03-16-123	After all, I would like to ask you to influence your party to stop the anti-vaccination campaign. Believe me, people's lives depend on you taking the shot or not. If it wasn't for the Eastern vaccine, we would have been able to inoculate 500,000 people less. You guys are always in the mood for this. There's no shame in admitting such a thing. Stand back from this, stand out, and tell people straight, as is possible here, that all vaccines are better than the loss of lungs, all vaccines are better than dying from this epidemic. I ask you to stand up and call on people to pick up both Chinese and Russian vaccines and other Western vaccines, regardless of where they came from. As far as GPs are concerned, I have also noticed these announcements, so I asked the head of the administration on Saturday to go out to these GPs whose clinics are not fit and to give all the help these GPs can give them vaccinations. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-124	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-125	Dear House, Prime Minister! When, at the end of last year, only a schematic order was published instead of a vaccination plan, an entire country was guessing that this was just a special New Year's Eve prank or that they really couldn't plan a vaccination campaign. Unfortunately, we have learned today that the latter is the case: you have no idea how to organise a vaccination campaign. Panic steering, the panic government, has been able to create vaccine chaos instead of a vaccination plan. [[16.40]] I'll help you. What's a vaccination plan like? [[Voices from the pro-government side, among them:]] It indicates which social group is expected to receive vaccination, on what criteria, at which time, at which vaccination points. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Ask Ujhelyi!]] This is what is missing; this is what exists in almost all European Union countries, but there is no such thing in Hungary. This can only happen in Hungary [[It's constant noise.]] that elderly people with severe chronic diseases have not been vaccinated, have not even received information and have been informed when they can expect this. [[Dr. Pál Völner: István Ujhelyi...]] On the other hand, for example, the vaccination of football players and Olympians is going well, as the government happily reported. [[Miklós Soltész: Ujhelyi...]] It is not possible to imagine that young, healthy people will receive the vaccine, while people with severe diseases will not get it, nor can the telephone number, which you have forgotten so much, but which the government has very hard to recall, give information about it. Prime Minister! What do you think: why do Hungarians not deserve to know when they can expect vaccination, when they can receive it? What do you think: why do Hungarians not deserve to be vaccinated on the basis of a vaccination plan, regularly and in a predictable manner in this country? [[Applause from the benches of DK and MSZP. Noise and interruptions from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-16-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-03-16-127	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand your anger, and I also understand that you are experiencing something that hurts your sense of justice, and I also do not claim that you are wrong, because it bothers me to the extreme extent that Brussels orders the vaccines, we pay for them, and then it doesn't arrive. Then the Austrian Chancellor says they're cheating on distribution. I would like to make it clear that the vaccine is ordered by Brussels, delivered by Brussels, and distributed by him. The vaccination in Hungary is not going slower than we would like because there is no vaccination point, because the vaccination is not organised, but it is moving slower because there are not enough vaccines. For example, here's a notice we just received from AstraZeneca. In which he tells us that half a million is half a million! You will deliver less than you previously have. Or here are the European Union's contracts with pharmaceutical manufacturers which must not be made public, it is all here, I cannot make public, because then they will launch a rule of law proceeding against Hungary. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] And these contracts would show that they've signed the wrong contracts, so there's no vaccine. It would turn out that there's no guarantee, and they don't have any tools to deliver the vaccines they've paid to the pharmaceutical companies. This can't be found out. It shouldn't be me, it shouldn't be the Hungarian government, if it is already possible to attack him in this difficult situation, but rather his friends in Brussels. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the same place, among them: That's right!]]
u2021-03-16-128	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-129	Prime Minister, if you can't be a statesman, at least be a man. [[There's noise and clarity from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the same place, including, "Woe!"]] Don't hide behind Brussels, behind Soros, behind Gyurcsány, behind the opposition. It's everyone's fault except you and your government. While you are pointing to Brussels, quoting data on incomplete purchases in Brussels, you are forgetting to mention that 10 million more Pfizer is coming, for example, this quarter. [[Grumbles and interrogations from the benches of the governing parties, including: Where is it?]] Interesting, this is not reported by the Hungarian government. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Mr. Prime Minister, He also forgets that while you say there are few vaccines, we received the new data yesterday, according to which there are 600,000 doses of vaccine, which is in the Hungarian warehouses. The 20th worst of 30 countries in Hungary is the share of vaccine use. Prime Minister! You said that if someone didn't get vaccinated, the opposition would be responsible. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Because of this 600,000 vaccine people die, you take responsibility for that? [[Miklós Soltész: You shouldn't have come in.]]
u2021-03-16-130	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-03-16-131	That the pair of a vaccine administered, which must be kept in storage, should be distributed or not, should only be decided by the epidemiological experts. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties, among them: Yes!]] And CDC experts have decided that we need to keep a pair of already vaccinated Chinese vaccines in storage, because soon they will have to be administered as a second shot, and we cannot risk giving them as a first shot. It's as simple as that. I need a little kindness. [[A voice on the side of the governing parties: Ah!]] And then I think you'd see it through. At the same time, I would like to point out that the only thing that measures our performance at this moment is that we are in second place in Europe in terms of the number of vaccinated people. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity and inform the citizens of Hungary that I continue to ask you to register. If you register, you will receive a vaccine, and when you have a vaccine, you will also be notified on the basis of registration when and where you need to go to take the vaccine. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Gergely Harvesto spread his hands.]]
u2021-03-16-132	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of Group of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor. (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.)
u2021-03-16-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to offer my fellow Members a little peace of mind. These are questions to which the Hungarian people are waiting for answers, I think. It is important to ask these questions and to answer them. [[Noise in the benches of the governing parties. Miklós Soltész to Gergely Arató, leaving the room: He left...]] Prime Minister! Not so long ago, when the Group of the European People's Party expelled your representatives, you said, among other things, that this could have happened because the European People's Party has changed and that they cannot or do not want to interpret the idea of national sovereignty. So we must quickly conclude that on this basis it was completely unnecessary to distract you, because you are neither politicalised on this basis, nor are you interested enough to refer to you, or to the protection of national sovereignty, after decisions to allow 20,000 people to enter the country with settlement bonds, or to regularly support, without reservations, the various free trade agreements, or to give the Paks II project to the Russians without a tender, or to bring the European centre of Rosatom to Hungary, and you can see how the horse is hanging out, how you support or accept Chinese great efforts, and how Chinese interests can prevail. But I think that Hungarian people are obviously less interested in excluding you from the European party family, but they have the right to ask why they do not fight for the protection of Hungarian national sovereignty and Hungarian national interests. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] When it comes to protecting him against Russian or Chinese great authority, Prime Minister. [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of the governing parties, among them Woe!]] It is a legitimate question, Prime Minister, how [[The president's ringing the bell.]] commenting on the strong and serious criticism that Chinese secret services in Hungary are overpowered and powerful. How do you comment, Prime Minister, on the serious criticism that the Chinese Communist State in Hungary is able to carry its own intention very strongly through the Hungarian government? And a very, very important question is that you will finally stop in this serious epidemiological situation the gigantic project Budapest-Belgrád railway project, which gives Chinese companies an EU reference, which serves the approach to the Pyreus port in the hands of the Chinese, at the same time, which is indebted [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] it will cost the Hungarian people and the Hungarian taxpayers a thousand billion forints. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-16-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-135	Believe me, my fellow Member, I have made efforts to understand the question. But I see there's been a hundred of these short two minutes where there was geopolitics, state investment, nuclear power plant and God knows what else. In any case, I understand you had a question with a national interest. [[Dr. László Keresztes nodds.]] I would like to continue to maintain my position that we represent the Hungarians in Brussels. You, I see, always represent Brussels here in Hungary. This difference remains between us, and this debate cannot be resolved. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the same place, among them: That's right!]] As far as the Chinese and Russian great authority is concerned. If I had just been in the U.S. Senate and listened to a congressman there, that's a fair question. But can you tell me what kind of Chinese and Russian great authority interests are threatening Hungary? I'd love to hear it. That the United States has problems because China's rise is a challenge for him, and after we're allies with the US in NATO, that's why [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's worth thinking about, I understand. But why the economic activity of the Russians or China would be a problem for Hungary, I cannot understand that. [[16.50]] In fact, I would like to remind you that the Hungarian concept is the opposite, and we do not support this Cold War logic, which you represent, at all. And we don't support international shells either. We spent 20 or so years of our lives in the Cold War, it wasn't good, it didn't work. It is not the Hungarian foreign policy that, in the interest of some great power, we are also fighting against others. Our policy is on a different national basis, we collect friends, we want to establish more fruitful relationships with everyone. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] China, Russia, Saudi Arabia, the United States, everyone. [[Intercom from Jobbik: You have so many friends!]] Ladies and gentlemen, which is good for the Hungarian people. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Yes! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-136	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Group Leader. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: He deserves two!]]
u2021-03-16-137	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, When we repeatedly draw attention here in Parliament to the fact that because of your liberal policy, [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] hundreds of thousands of people have left this country, thousands of families have been torn apart because of emigration, and your fellow politicians say that there is no problem here, but that the common European labour market is working. I think that if a government takes that position, it should not lie to itself as a national. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] Because I think the national position is to ensure that a government is able to thrive in its homeland. Mr. Prime Minister, According to your calculations, you spend as much money on the Budapest-Belgrád railway project in the two most difficult years of the crisis, of which 175 thousand jobs could be created. You've encrypted all the documents. Are you willing to unlock this encryption and show how many jobs this project will create? Are you willing to show us what kind of background deals, what calculations are behind this Budapest-Belgrád project? And are you willing to stop this project against national interests, and will you finally spend this huge amount, 200 billion forints in two years, on supporting Hungarian people and on crisis management? Thank you very much. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-03-16-138	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-139	As I understand it, you made the statement in the form of a question that the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line does not serve Hungary's national interests. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] I would advise you to take a look at the map and add the fact that you quoted here, that the Greek ports have been bought by the Chinese, that is where the goods will be delivered. Those goods will definitely get from that port up to Western Europe, the question is whose country they are going through. Is there a sane person among you who dares to claim that Hungary has no advantage in transporting through us? I don't think a sane person would think that. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: It's just a question of how much it costs!]] [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] I would advise you to take a look at the map and add the fact that you quoted here, that the Greek ports have been bought by the Chinese, that is where the goods will be delivered. Those goods will definitely get from that port up to Western Europe, the question is whose country they are going through. Is there a sane person among you who dares to claim that Hungary has no advantage in transporting through us? I don't think a sane person would think that. (Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: It's just a question of how much it costs!) There is a race, we gained the right to transport goods from Greece to western Europe through Hungary in a great competition. (Interjection from the pro-government benches: That's right!) A national foreign policy can very rarely account for more success than this. We consider this to be a serious national act, honourable Member. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: Yes! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-140	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Member Sándor Burány and Head of the Szabó Timea Group, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, You said in September 2020 that we are awaiting the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic armed to the teeth. Then he added that Hungary is measuring the success of defence in human lives. Back in the same month, last September, you said that everyone could relax, because if you catch the disease, you'll be cured. Then in February 2021 he declared that we had reached a turning point, so far the virus was attacking, and we were defending ourselves, and now we are attacking, and the virus is defending itself. And then in February 2021, a few days later, he said: "I have all the bad news. The situation seems to be facing the most difficult two weeks of the epidemic we've experienced so far. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then, at the beginning of March 2021, he said that with the two-week closing, we turned to the finish line. And then the other day, he told me that we were going through the darkest moments before dawn. So, in controversial statements that contradict themselves, Prime Minister, there is no shortage. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] I would like you to make it clear here that we are attacking or defending; we are now experiencing the darkest moments before dawn, as we turn to the finish line, or it gets worse. Mr. Prime Minister, I look forward to your reply as to what is valid today, what are the party's and government's passwords on 16 March. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-03-16-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-03-16-143	Honourable Congressman, I can see that the complexity of the situation creates difficulties, and it seems to you that measures taken in successive situations are in conflict with each other. You're wrong. What you've said is the next step in a logical line. Now, for example, we are attacking naturally. It's called vaccination. [[Lajos Rig: No! The vaccine is part of the defense.]] And after the third wave is here, of course we will defend ourselves. That's the thing, both at the same time. And if there's another wave that I can't tell you it's gonna come off, and I can't tell you what shape it's gonna be, of course, we're gonna do what if there's another wave, we're gonna have to do it. Or here is the case of AstraZeneca, of which, on the one hand, they are not transporting, and on the other hand, we have doubts as to what needs to be done about what has been delivered. We're waiting for the decision of the European Medicines Agency. They promised us Thursday what to do. These decisions are not up to us, and we will adapt to them, Congressman. We will always adapt to what is just the case. I now see that we have every opportunity because of the Eastern vaccines, we will expect more than 3 million from China sometime in May, if it arrives, and I believe that it will arrive, then our commitment is that every person who has registered registrations will be vaccinated, by the way, now three, and perhaps half a million, we will be able to inoculate all registered people before the end of the second quarter, and we will be the first European country that will be able to do so. I will repeat this in this situation, and I will do my best to do so. The only thing I ask of you is that you don't talk people out of taking the vaccine. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-144	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sándor Burány. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-145	Prime Minister, due to the shortness of time, there are only two things I would ask of you. One: if you are so proud of your vaccination plan, then the next time you try not to have more than 70,000 people in one weekend, as promised to be vaccinated, you will finally succeed, and do not screw it up as you did the last time you canceled your vaccinations in text messages, while the wrong people were simply vaccinated even if they weren't registered. This is my first request. The second is that it considers it valid that the success of the fight against the epidemic is measured in human lives, so please also account for the tragic fact that, according to official data, the third worst mortality rate in Europe is currently occurring in Hungary. Please pick up the gloves in this area, too, and protect the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-03-16-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Rejoice, Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-147	Let's start with the latter. You know that statistical records are different in all European countries. The situation is as we count, as the European Union is counting: we look at how many people died in 2019, when there was no epidemic, and then we look at how many died in 2020, which is called a death surplus. If that's what you're looking at, we're somewhere in 10th place. I mean, in the order of the best in the 10th place, not where you say it is. I wouldn't be happy with that, because one person's life is a loss. And I do not like the whole approach, which you are constantly publishing here, as if we should be running a race to see who can better explain the statistics. Instead, I would like to say that every person's life counts, we want to save every person's life, we want to cure everyone, we are going to treat every person in hospitals, and we are going to inoculate everyone who is willing to do this, because the vaccine is voluntary: it is registered, it is vaccinated. The only thing I'm asking of you is to stop your anti-vaccination campaign. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-16-148	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Gyula Budai, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "Where could the stolen billions of Czeglédy have gone? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that, because of the Minister's absence, Mr Pál Völner has given the right to reply. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[György Szilágyi: Don't ask, tell me, you were the Commissioner for Accountancy! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Have you failed to account? On Dr. Gyula Budai's mark:]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Congressman Gyula Budai has the floor. [[17.00]]
u2021-03-16-149	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Revizori report on Csaba Czeglédy's criminal case clearly proves that Czeglédy's accomplices took nearly HUF 2.5 billion in cash from ATMs. The Revizor investigation is Czeglédy's company, Human Operator Zrt. and checked references, cash flows and billion-dollar cash withdrawals between school cooperatives in criminal cases. The Revizori investigation found that Human Operator Zrt. The invoices issued by companies and school cooperatives built under this heading have always been of much greater value than the amount of money actually transferred. In many cases, references to the school cooperative could not be linked to accounts. The Stromans of Czeglédy took 2.5 billion forints from rural bank branches and vending machines between 2013 and 2016, and then took the money to Czeglédy's company in Szombathely. According to the report, the investigating authority could not find out the use of the HUF 2.5 billion recorded, but it can also be established as a fact, on the basis of the Revizori report, that the HUF 400 million transferred to Czeglédy in addition to the HUF 2.5 billion received, on the basis of various items. Csaba Czeglédy financed his left-wing campaigns. That is why Ferenc Gyurcsány insists on his lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, with his teeth and nails, and they try to do everything they can to stop the legal proceedings against Czeglédy. I'll ask the Secretary of State where all of Czeglédy's stolen billions have gone. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It seems, fellow Members, that the left is still crawling with corruption scandals. Many are rightly outraged by the Czeglédy case, by the Hungarian lawyer who has previously been convicted of fraud and forgery of private documents, who has accused the left of $6.5 billion in budget fraud, not only would he stay in the current situation, but his office continues to work for good money for the DK-led municipalities in the capital, and is constantly getting busy orders from the DK mayors. Mr. Czeglédy is confident, his boss and mentor, the Comrade Czeglédy, help the Busted Ones! On the road and on the road, Ferenc Gyurcsány stands by his support. That is why they threw in a bright example of abuse of the law as a candidate in the parliamentary elections of 2018 and then in the European Parliament elections of 2019, hiding him under immunity, preventing criminal proceedings. It is therefore possible that he will also appear as a candidate in the parliamentary elections next year. Ladies and gentlemen, Csaba Czeglédy certainly knows a lot about the finances of the Gyurcsány family from which he has been loaned several times. Mr. Czeglédy obviously needs to listen when he needs to talk, and he's gonna have to march into prison without a word if the verdict goes that way. These people get the omerta, the law of silence. In any case, the Gyurcsányek will do whatever it takes to prevent the trial of a criminal case. If the former Prime Minister were really interested in stealing public money, he would not defend Czeglédy, because as he wrote in a Facebook post at the end of February, anyone who takes a penny of the common money steals my mother, even if he left last spring and only those who do not want to steal my mother and others like her, because they will be persecuted to the entrance to prison. After this, we look forward to what Gyurcsány will do in the case of Czeglédy, accompanying him or chasing him to the entrance to the prison. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gyula Budai. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-153	Csaba Czeglédy is the treasurer of the left. One of the actors in the criminal case against Czeglédy talked about this illicit party funding when he said that Csaba Czeglédy met with the then president of the MSZP in Budapest in 2014 with Ágnes Kunhalmi, to whom he gave HUF 50 million to finance the campaign in Budapest. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] Ágnes Kunhalmi was then not only president of the MSZP in Budapest, but also member of the national presidency of the MSZP. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] This criminal case also said that Czeglédy financed Zoltán Késző's Veszprém interim campaign. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Oops! Moore and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-16-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-03-16-155	Ladies and gentlemen, Socialists are still indebted to the answers, exactly what dirty work Czeglédy has done for them, and to whom the stolen 6.3 billion HUF has migrated. One of the most vulnerable social groups has been damaged by the criminal association led by Csaba Czeglédy, so they need to provide concrete answers as soon as possible for clarity as to why the company's favourite home-lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, has provided greater financial support, but it is also justified to examine the fact that there has been covert party funding. I'm sure Csaba Czeglédy knows something that will keep Ferenc Gyurcsány from letting go of his hand. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, MEPs Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Csányi, please.
u2021-03-16-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, A year ago, almost exactly, in view of the virus situation, you ordered digital education outside the classroom from one moment to the next in public education institutions. Then they practically pushed the entire education system into the deep water, because in this new situation, which no one has known to date, they did not provide any help to the head of the institution, teachers, parents or students either. Technically, you were rooting for them from the edge of the beach, and then the summer vacation was spent on yachting, luxury vacations, as if there were no tomorrow, as if September wouldn't come again. And then a week ago, with your usual headlessness, the schools were shut down again, but their attitude hasn't changed a bit. You, Minister, have pulled back into the cheerleading zone and waved from there to the frontline fighters without giving them any specific assistance. The Krêta system turned out to have everything but the load, because it collapsed immediately on the first day. How could this happen? Are there any responsible people? Is there an inquiry in this case, Minister? You know that if a teacher wants to teach an online lesson and is not obligated to use the KRÉTA system to see that he is working, he will use the application of one of the multi-company companies, because it will certainly work. My first question follows from this: how much did it cost taxpayers to buy and transform the CRETA system? How much do we keep this system out of operation every year? You also do not listen to the profession, from which there are clear questions. You, Minister, are loosely ignoring all this. But I can put it on now, of course. The first is: will teachers who require this be vaccinated in the educational period outside the classroom, thereby ensuring the system functions safely? Will you compensate teachers for the purchase of equipment for the digital changeover with a symbolic HUF 100,000 named by a trade union? Do you also help parents staying at home with additional leave for online education? Please provide concrete answers to these specific questions, because there is no room for smearing here. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-16-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kásler. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-159	Thank you very much. The Member's questions relate to the education system, and he asked his questions in connection with the epidemic. What I can tell you is that when it was necessary, the whole system changed over a single weekend to digital education. This was an extraordinary achievement of the Hungarian pedagogical faculty. I have already helped the Member out once with a compilation of questions that did not last two minutes, and I can repeat that. Internet accessibility is available above the European average. Broadband options are also available. More than 60 percent of Hungarian teachers appreciate that they can use this system properly. Digital content has been developed by the country, the extent of its use has increased significantly, textbooks are available, notes are available, examples are available, treasures of Hungarian culture are available, more than ninety films can be added. [[17.10]] Teachers receive vaccination as well as any other Hungarian citizen, according to their age and health status. During the vaccinations so far, many have been vaccinated, always in accordance with the rhythm in which society as a whole has received it, as the Prime Minister has very graphically established its conditions. I think I've answered all the questions. Your colleague always starts by saying he misses me because I'm not here enough. Now I miss him. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-16-160	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Csányi. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-161	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much on behalf of your colleagues for recognising that they were working, and you have not been doing so recently in connection with the digital transition. I thank them this way too. I just couldn't answer my question. How much did the CREATIA system cost, Minister? Exactly, specifically, forints and pennies. It's obviously simple for you and you should know it. Who's responsible for not working when it was supposed to work? What I see is that they do not want to help teachers, because they do not get involved in the education plan, they do not receive financial assistance for the purchase of assets. We also see that they do not want to help parents either, since they do not get paid leave to stay home with the learner and help them with online education. Then who would you like to help, Minister? It looks like they're only trying to help themselves, but this is not a job at the time of the outbreak, Minister. You abuse your power, instead of taking meaningful measures, you just want to get away with this virus epidemic, even though it should be treated. But you don't know that. It's a shame. Get me to work, please. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-16-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is the minister's word. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-163	Congressman encourages me to work after this career, but at the same time noise, aggressiveness and lack of knowledge do not replace arguments [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] does not replace the content of your comment. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: How much did the Chalk cost?]] I have listened to your questions to the Prime Minister. Please, the cream of the world's epidemiology experts, clinicians and virologists is arguing over issues in which you are giving your opinion. Where did you get... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: How much did the CREATE system cost? A lot of noise from Jobbik's benches, over and over again, yells: CREATE?]] Please, I listened to you with great patience. I don't want any more. Where do you get the courage to ask questions you don't have any information about? [[Complaining from Jobbik's benches: Kreta system?]] have no knowledge [[Peter James: How much did the Chalk cost?]] And what's about people's lives, what's their opinion? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: How much did the CREATE system cost? Cancel!]] Think about it. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-16-164	Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the pro-government benches.]] Thank you very much, Minister. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Cancel!]] Ladies and gentlemen, [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: It wasn't the virus. Shame!]] Member István Simicskó, the group leader of the KDNP Group, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. Where would we hold the vaccine procurement if we were waiting for Brussels and the Hungarian left? It's an address. Mr. Head of the Group, Minister Tamás Menczer has appointed Mr. State Secretary for his reply because of his absence. [[Dr. István Simicskó says yes.]] Mr. Fraction Manager points out that he accepts the Secretary of State as a responder. István Simicskó, leader of the group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, In the fight against the epidemic, it has become clear that the government cannot count on the left and unfortunately not on Brussels. It has also become clear to the Hungarian society that, during the epidemic, the Fidesz-KDNP government is the only one who can count on again and only in trouble. Ladies and gentlemen, What we see is left-wing politicians, mayors campaigning against vaccination, doing it all the time while they inoculate themselves. Let me mention Imre László, mayor of Újbuda, or the case of György Hiesz, mayor of Gyöngyös. They constantly suggest that Russian and Chinese vaccines should not be trusted. That's what they're trying to do. They're putting lives in danger and putting people at risk. These are people's lives, fellow Members. Dear Secretary of State, Nevertheless, we see that the vaccination in Hungary is at a good pace. Nearly 1.5 million people have received the first vaccination at home and nearly 400,000 have received the second vaccination. We are in the second best position in the European Union, and this is a huge achievement, so there is recognition, and obviously this is the way to go. This is significantly above the EU average, thanks to both Chinese and Russian vaccines, thanks to the government's timely acquisition of all this. We see that Brussels has dramatically ruined the purchase of vaccine. As long as the United States, Great Britain, Israel had already signed with pharmaceutical companies last spring, Brussels did this only in November, demonstrating enormous irresponsibleness. 55 percent of Israel's 9 million inhabitants have already been vaccinated, and 2 million of Serbia's 7 million inhabitants have been vaccinated. They are far ahead of the EU average. Brussels is conducting a pointless political and ideological battle against the Russian vaccine, which is clearly visible. My question would be where we would be with vaccine purchases, vaccinations, if we could only count on Brussels and the Hungarian left. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-16-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-03-16-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, I could answer your question briefly: nowhere. But I would like to say that I would like to make it clear, first and foremost, what the Hungarian government is doing. What we do is correct the mistakes in Brussels. Therefore, I would also ask left-wing representatives to keep pace; when we are attacked and called to account, in this regard I can say that we may not be able to correct every mistake in Brussels overnight, but we are still making good progress. I'd like to bring some numbers here. With Pfizer vaccine, 9 percent of the order has been delivered, 5 percent at the Modern, 6 percent at AstraZeneca, and 6 percent at the EU average. The problem is not that we did not order a vaccine from Brussels, but that they did not come. The errors in Brussels have already been acknowledged. For example, Commission President Von der Leyen said that if I looked in a rear-view mirror, I saw that we should have thought more about mass production and challenges. We've had a bitter lesson, obviously underestimated the challenges. Vice-President Timmermans, who has no virtue in admitting, said that he made mistakes in Brussels. As for the other half of your question, on the left, Mr. Head of the Group, it is clear that the left now resents the fact that we say that they are anti-vaccinations. They say they're not. Yes, they are. A petition was launched under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, or it was said that Chinese and Russian vaccines would not be available in the districts and cities they led. They are willing to risk the lives of Hungarian people. The truth is so frustrating, Mr. Head of the Group, that Mr. Mesterházy promised me a slap in the face last time on a TV show, he said that a slap in a country bar would have been a slap. The truth is, I'm a country kid, I've been to a country bar, I've seen something scarier than the one on the left. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] I think they're not only unfit for crisis management, they're even unfit to do anything in a rural tavern. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-16-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also thank you, Mr State Secretary, for your reply. In parentheses, I'll tell you that you can count on us if you need to, including in the country pub. [[Delight and applause from the benches of KDNP.]] Of course, it seems that Brussels is creating unnecessary and ideological debates, trying to find political reasons for not accepting the Russian and Chinese vaccines. I think what you're doing is incredibly irresponsible. It was very right that the Hungarian government made a timely move, and it was very right to commit nearly 20 million vaccines in time, among the first. This is why we can now move at this pace, and we trust that these processes can accelerate. I am sure that it will not depend on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Hungarian Government, because it is human lives, and Hungarian people can count on the Hungarian government. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-16-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr. Tamás Menczer is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-03-16-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Yes, the Hungarian people can count on the government, unlike the left. Let me come with two quotes. The Gyurcsány Party said, "If Orbán continues to force the Chinese vaccine, there will be no one million inoculated, let alone six. We're at 1 million and 347 thousand, and we're moving on. István Ujhelyi said: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[17.20]] Yeah, it's all on paper, but it's really hard to put it out on paper. And I would like to add, Mr Group Leader, in terms of China and Russia, that 1 million vaccines have arrived from China 20 days before the contractual deadline, as we have already had the opportunity to say today. This week another 100,000 vaccines come from China, 43 days before the deadline. I am once again pleased to present this to the colleagues in Brussels. The next shipment from Russia will be 480,000 doses of vaccine as a result of the Foreign Minister's negotiations. And let me add, in closing, that we are helping all European countries, everyone is turning to us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question. It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Pál Völner has given the right to reply. I respectfully ask, do you accept the person who is responding, or ask the Minister for her answer personally.
u2021-03-16-173	Thank you, Mr. President. I would say to Mr Menczer that I too am from the country, and I have been to the pub, but I will wait for Minister. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-16-174	Thank you very much. The same answer should have been handled differently. [[Defiance.]] But each one according to his own taste. I respectfully inform you that the Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How is that?" It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, We are facing two crises. There is a health crisis, the solution of which is obviously the vaccination, so we encourage everyone to take on the vaccine, and there is an economic crisis, where, obviously, the main role of the solution should be support, non-refundable support. On the other hand, we see what you say many times that the principle of civil governance is that there is no income without work. This would obviously give us a serious philosophical debate in peacetime, but it is not peacetime. Those who don't work now don't work because they don't want to because they're lazy, or because a company has stopped because they simply don't need the product they make, but because they've made rules to protect health that make them stop, they should be compensated. It should be supported, but you're offering me a loan. Once again, this miracle weapon is to be loaned to them, right now up to HUF 10 million, if you want to sign a pledge on your property. Of course, there are exceptions, let's say, Lőrinc Mészáros receives grants even if he doesn't always know about it, but he gets it, Prime Minister, even if he releases 850 people, making 850 families' lives hell. He still receives, but Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises can only receive credit. Therefore, I ask Prime Minister when he will announce the non-refundable subsidies that Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises may receive instead of loans, and, above all, how long they intend to extend the credit-payment moratorium, since it seems that the situation of companies will not be stabilised until the date on which the credit-payment moratorium expires. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-16-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-03-16-177	Indeed, the Hungarian government has decided that small and medium, but mostly small enterprises will receive HUF 10 million free of interest. This has begun. I'm not satisfied with the construction yet, because I think it's too bureaucratic. So I want this to go a lot faster and smoother. In any case, interest shows that this is a good measure because it is applied and recorded. We do provide wage support. Please take this into account, as we provide 50% wage support in troubled sectors. By the way, for small accommodation publishers, I may not be able to recall the number exactly, but as if we had given a HUF 1 million allowance per room. That meant 45,000 people, 45,000 rooms. So I feel that the economic policy compound, the mix we are working with, which primarily grants grants grants for improvements to protect and retain jobs, i.e. thinks about future jobs, and we also provide wage support and credit, we have a credit moratorium, so I think that together it is a good way to overcome the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. I note quietly that the credit moratorium, which is the most important instrument, is a matter of life and death. Too bad you didn't vote for him here in Parliament. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-178	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman László Szakács. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, We loan ten million forints to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that's what he said, but it's already a slip. That's it. Between HUF 1 and 10 million, this will be the only thing the entrepreneur will meet at the bank, not then, but otherwise, in government communication it will sound good. We also provide wage support. I believe that since November, December, January, February, it is when wage subsidies began to be paid for four months, and in the catering industry and the hotel industry, these businesses could indeed have made sub-trees, Christmas trees, missing orders and missing decisions. So they've learned for life what it's like to be someone you're saving. But you're not developing businesses, you're developing the liquidation sector. That's your strategy. The liquidators will be confirmed, put their own soldiers in there and then redistribute the market. First, of course, you have to lend a loan, you have to fall for something. I think that's what it looks like on the outside, and it doesn't seem right. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-16-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Prime Minister for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2021-03-16-181	I don't think what you said is fair or fair, given that, for example, the wage subsidies to the entrepreneurs in the capital were immediately seized and taken from the entrepreneurs by your capital. I don't think you can blame us for that. I do not think your approach is fair because you have dealt with the economic crisis in Hungary, not only by us, but also by you as a Member. I will now read out what measures you have voted for as a crisis management. He voted in favour of taking the 13th month's salary. You voted in favour of taking the 13th month pension. He voted to reduce the duration of the crime. He voted in favour of paying health care. He voted in favour of property taxes, he voted in favour of tuition fees and VAT increases. Are you sure you have to ask me? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-16-182	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 5:27. That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. We're taking a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 17.27 17.33 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2021-03-16-183	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Welcome. A general debate is now taking place. In view of the pandemic situation, I would like to ask that only the next speaker and the two fellow Members who are waiting to speak be present in the Chamber as far as possible. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal on the National Social Policy Institute of Slachta Margit will follow until closure. Presentation by Ungár Péter, LMP, Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP, Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, Selmeczi Gabriella, Fidesz, representatives H/14632. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2021-03-16-184	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Let's just say that I became a Member of Parliament during this term, but in this cycle we have faced a unique fact that there are also opposition and pro-government nationalists in this proposal. Although the symbolic and symbolic nature of the proposal in itself is important, it is about the renaming of the National Social Policy Institute from Margit Slachta, it is also important to appreciate the first representative of Hungary, whose life path is inspiring for everyone. Obviously, I don't want to start with what is very popular in certain parts of the opposition, to say that Slachta Margit was another right that was good, but now there's a right that's really bad. Although, if this claim were true in many ways, I would probably have been represented in the previous century, I wouldn't have been in the same party as Margaret Slachta. Nevertheless, it is very important to appreciate in the national unity people with whom we have had differences of opinion. I don't want to give a detailed description of Margit Slachta's life path, I think more people will do that, but he is the man who represents a national unity in every respect, to appreciate him, to be part of the national pantheon, and to let the next generations know his way of life. Perhaps the most important thing to him and the most important thing in social policy is that, all along, against many right-wing thinkers, he claimed that care is not in the home, that care is not a private issue, but a political issue that needs to be organised, and that the organisation of which is a good place for the state, redistribution and Parliament. He thought that what was a very far-reaching and changing idea of social foundations and the role of the family in many respects is that care should be dealt with politically, economically and organisationally within the social policy framework. The fact is that at the time he said this, this was also a revolutionary idea because most people said that social policy and everything that deals with the social sector should be the personal charity of various aristocrats and not a social organization issue. Moreover, the church, which still plays a major role in the social sector, was a member of the Catholic Church as a nun, and nevertheless thought that, in addition to church frameworks, state frameworks should be provided for care. I would be happy to say that this principle is what, in addition to the renaming of Slachta Margit, also means a national consensus that it is a state issue, a political issue that is caring work, and a political question is what we will do with social policy, because if some Slachta Margit had his personal ars poetica, it is this. I will not talk much about it, which is also an interesting question: after all, most of the speeches by Margit Slachta were about women's suffrage, obviously. Who's predecessor did what with women's suffrage at the time, or whose intellectual predecessors, when Margaret Slachta spoke, will decide that, because of the great ecumenia, I will not explain it in detail, but one may also have an opinion on this. There were elements of his policy followed by the current government, and it did not surprise me that my fellow Members joined. Such was the need to support large families with tax incentives. This is followed by the current government, which Margit Slachta has already proposed. There have been proposals, which I believe to be followed by the current government, although this is contrary to my personal opinion, such as making divorces difficult and economic support for the institution of marriage. At the same time, there were proposals that the government could not follow, in my opinion, and on which I agree. History is usually such a complex thing, where everyone has many sides. For example, state support for home care was included in several speeches, and this was one of the most important social policy proposals for Slachta Margit. In my opinion, and allow me so much that if Margaret Slachta had been a member of the Parliament now, she would have supported my suggestion that the home care fee should rise to the minimum wage level even if she had not taken care of children at home. [[17.40]] In fact, Margit Slachta was one of the first in the Hungarian Parliament to raise elderly care and the increase in the proportion of older people, because of demographic trends, he raised a question already in the 20s, and even said that this is a female issue because the elderly are basically dealt with by women. So it was then, according to all research, this is a significant part of the case now, and it is currently an unpaid job, as it was in the '20s, and as in the '20s, it is precisely based on this unpaid work that a significant part of the people can leave and do paid work. It's one of those things that the government will hopefully think of, based on Margaret Slachta's warnings. At the same time, his social policy did not only deal with social benefits, family support, elderly support. He has a sentence that, in my opinion, shows how far his social thinking is not on the side of fundamentalism on the free market, and how inspiring it is for people who also do not identify themselves with fundamentalism on the free market, he said that we should not just think about reducing misery and suffering. Instead, we must strive to eliminate the causes of poverty and poverty. Society as a whole must be present, where troubles are born with preventive and sanctifying love. The fact that someone says that poverty has social causes and social reasons for why someone goes into the social care system and has to be eliminated is still a radical claim, as radical as it was in the '20s, and I am very pleased that someone who made such a radical statement deserves to be named an institution after him, according to the social government. What is important to talk about is that in 1985 the State of Israel gave the posthumous medal of the True Man to Margit Slachta, in almost many ways he was alone... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] ...in many ways he was alone in a very distressing age, and he did good on his own, along with very few people, when this was not fashionable, and in my opinion it also shows that it is worth naming an institution after him. Finally, I would like to say one more thing in any way that we are debating a great deal on issues in which I can imagine that we are led by a different worldview, but at the same time both have good intentions. I can imagine that the increased role of churches in basic social services and at all in the social care system, this is an honest and well-meaning thing on the part of the Secretary of State, and I just want it to be the other way around, so that when we say that it is a state task and that the state must participate in the social care system, and that the state must finance it from the redistribution that it is involved in this, it helps not only help, but also reduces the differences that have been created in society, we also do so in good intentions. The two do not necessarily extinguish each other, but to draw attention to the differences in funding because I know that this sounds absurd to me as the author of a debate on Slachta Margit, but to draw attention to the differences in funding is not anti-church, it is not anti-Christian, it comes simply from our view of the world, with the same good intentions, so that we can reduce the inequalities created by the economic system as much as possible. Overall, I am therefore very pleased that the Hungarian government will name an institution after Margaret Slachta through the Hungarian Parliament, and hopefully this is just a first step in supporting more proposals born in the spirit of Margit Slachta; increasing the fee for home care, a one-off HUF 500,000 wage supplement for social workers or, during the current viral situation, receiving 100 percent of the sick money if they become coronal virus, all of which I believe to be eligible for everyone in this spirit. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-16-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Attila Philip, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-03-16-186	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the time of the coronal virus epidemic, the fact that the social issue is a matter for all of us is even more pronounced. In peacetime, we also look after our elderly parents, children without their families, homeless people, people with disabilities, people in need, but at the time of the epidemic, it is even more our duty to help the area function more effectively, so it is essential to have a well-skilled support organisation that can respond quickly, in partnership with those who maintain institutions in the social field. This is why, on 1 January 2021, the National Social Policy Institute was established, which is responsible for the development of the profession of social, child welfare and child protection. Dear House, The activities of the Institute include the ideas and suggestions of the state, the ecclesiastical, as has been said, local government and non-governmental institutions, taking into account the professional training tasks, decision preparation, execution of supporters and service providers. The new organisation, which, as I said, was set up at the beginning of the year, considers it essential in its structure and tasks the provision of tasks capable of responding to changes, including, on the one hand, the operation, development and support of training systems and, on the other hand, the activation of competences for workers in relation to the social and child protection areas adapted to changing economic and social circumstances. According to the proposal, the National Social Policy Institute is added to the name of the first Hungarian member of the Hungarian Parliament from the Christian Democratic side, Margit Slachta, paying tribute to the creator of church social work and state social assistance in Hungary. As the Member has just mentioned, I really think it is important to note that it is from this point that Churches work in the field of social protection, child protection, centuries or thousands of years of work is not a commitment based on modern law, but a continuation of their natural mission, which they are doing to this day. In drawing the image and mission of the social brother, Brother Margit also emphasized the inseparability of the social and ecclesiastical component, and I quote: "It would be a great contradiction if the social program and the Holy Spirit were placed in separate drawers. My whole being, all my actions must be Spirit-stricken. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Appreciating countless examples of history, we can clearly say that without the work of churches and charitable organizations, it is difficult to talk about institutionalised social care today, so the social importance and social involvement of churches are also indisputable in this respect. We particularly welcome the fact that, with this proposal for a resolution, the opposition representative does not challenge the government's view of churches as strategic partners, but also recognizes the work of the churches in Hungary in the social and child protection field. Indeed, Margit Slachta, in whom the joy of vocation and belonging to the community was constant, could be an example. Dear House, Social care is also a very important part of caring for the soul, and it is important that a day in a social institution should not be hours to survive, but a day to survive, but a little more; compared to any other maintainer, church actors can add much to that. We can also say that it is our moral duty to always help those in distress and those in need, and the civilian government will do so. The responsible care policy begins by not trying to untie and unlock the Necessity Net as the main objective, but by removing the road to it. If this provision was mentioned, this House, another thought: In 2010, the Orbán government took over the direction of Hungary, where 3.7 million people worked, where the minimum wage was 73 500 forints, where virtually no family tax relief or family home-building support existed, and where only 18 percent of our fellow countrymen with disabilities worked. [[17.50]] Today, 4.5 million people work, the minimum wage is HUF 167 400, because of the family tax relief, HUF 3000 billion remained in the families that raised the child, and almost every second of our countrymen with disabilities support themselves and their families from income and work. Over the last thirty years, the government of the last ten years has done the most to increase income, to create security of life and social security, which has made the most progress. Work has been and will continue to be at the centre of this. I believe that a policy of care in the right sense will help, but it will not destroy the pursuit of self-sufficiency, it will complement, but it will not replace, it will develop virtues, it will enable, but it will not expect impossible. We want to continue the transformation processes that have started in previous years, to make the supply system more transparent and to develop more targeted services. Dear House, The National Social Policy Institute, as a professional knowledge centre, provides long-term flexibility, speed and professional cooperation with institutional supporters for the innovative development of the field. And Margit Slachta's name may remind us all of the value of care, together with the value of belonging to the community, and of the need to protect the Hungarian nation and Christian ideas. And if there's a problem, whatever it is, you don't have to pull it apart, you have to pull it together. Dear House, Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-16-187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-16-188	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Péter Ungár for his excellent expo, and I would also like to welcome the fact that it may be only up to this item on the agenda, but it seems that the intelligent, high-level debate, i.e. its possibility, has returned to the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. My fellow Member talked about the points at which we can agree, so at what points, at what values can the party and the opposition agree, but also about the fact that there are issues of value where we see the situation differently. This is precisely the point of the debate, so that we can shed light on them on reasonable grounds and on different aspects. So we're always happy to be ready for this kind of debate. When our fellow Member presented this proposal to give the National Social Policy Institute a name that the government has created and we have not done yet, if I am aware, that the government is creating an institution, and that Parliament and Parliament are giving it a name, we thought it was worth considering this proposal. We have considered and decided to support this proposal. We have joined the proposal as rapporteur, which the House Rules give us, subject to the agreement of our LMP fellow Members. So much for the political culture debate that I hope you've started and it's going to last. Secretary of State Attila Fülöp has already said a few words about why the National Social Policy Institute was established and for what purpose it was set up. I wouldn't go into this right now, but we all agree that the role this institute is undertaking in the social, child welfare and child protection area is an extremely important area. We also consider it important that decisions on these be speeded up and more precise. The fact is that we also need to come up with the fact that the epidemic, the Covid epidemic, has been going on since March 2020, and through this we also see that in critical areas where the number of people at risk is extremely high, there is a need, and it is really essential that such a fast responding institution can maintain a good relationship with the maintainers and can help each other back and forth and support these partners with expertise. My colleague has already talked about who Margaret Slachta was. I think it is important that we talk in plenary, yes, about the course of life, because every time you read it either on the Internet or in professional books, who was Slachta Margaret and what she has achieved, we can really admire her. So who was Margaret Slachta? Monk, the 20th. The outstanding personality of Hungarian political life in the century. First female national assembly, then MP. Before 1945, he was an anti-Nazi, Jewish savior, and after 1945 he was an anti-Communist politician [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] "The Truth of the World," you might say. Margit Slachta, the modern female figure of the two total dictatorships, was a hero. A brave woman in a trying world where so many people got drunk on new ideologies. Margit Slachta, however, lived deeply in his faith. He had a solid set of values, and Christianity, over two thousand years old, was the standard measure of his life. His speeches, actions, education, openness have gained authority in the house of the country from the very first moment. Margit Slachta was a legitimate politician with conservative principles, who organized women's and family protection in Hungary before his age, and implemented the training and education of social workers. In fact, during World War II, he urged his religious superiors to protest persecution and cruelty. He was Catholic, taking the obligation of neighborly love seriously. He believed in the teachings of Christian universalism, he knew that racism and anti-Semitism did not stop before national borders, nor did Christianity proclaim love. After 1947, with the gradual expansion of the Communist Party, the continuation of its political career in Hungary began to become increasingly impossible. As of January 1949, he was hiding in the Domonkos sisters' convent, then emigrating to Austria and from there to the United States of America. The communist machine did everything it could to defile him and make him impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, We don't talk, we don't talk about it enough. The statue is missing from the Hungarian and Bratislava squares, because it saved a lot of people from the Nazis, too, in Slovakia at the time. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] He hasn't been made happy in the Vatican. We have to learn from her, the most modern Hungarian woman who has set an example of humanity all her life. In the light of what has been said, I believe that this should be supported, and that the Hungarian Parliament will be given the opportunity to acknowledge the ex post recognition of the self-sacrifice, exemplary and humane work of the first Hungarian congresswoman, thus paying tribute to the memory of Margit Slachta. Allow me to quote one more quote from Margit Slachta, not the dynamite, not the ekrazi, not the bomb destroys, destroys, but the spirit controlling them, the hatred. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-03-16-189	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go. [[18.00]]
u2021-03-16-190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the social field, he has achieved everything a person can achieve. I think that this is the sentence that best confirms the work of Margit Slachta and the struggle that he did here in the Hungarian Parliament and, by the way, as a monk. As has already been said by the rapporteur in the State Secretary's Expo, we must constantly strive to recognise those working in the social field. Margit Slachta was an outstanding figure. Of course, the Jobbik Group fully supports the fact that the National Social Policy Institute is named after the first female Member of Parliament, Margit Slachta. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-03-16-191	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-03-16-192	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We are here at an important symbolic debate in Parliament on the day after our national holiday, and I think that I can agree on a very, very large percentage with the Members before me. I would add so much to my better fellow Member that the sentence that we put it in posterity, that he achieved everything he could have achieved, he would certainly disagree with that, Margaret Slachta, because he always wanted to do more and always wanted to help people more. Not for nothing, even when he was older, in the United States, he also supported and helped Hungarian refugees in the '56s, trying to help them from the order there, as he also helped Jewish refugees, including Jenő Heltai or Miklósné Gyarmati Fanni, by the way. In this rescue he died of martyrdom, by the way, by his monk Sarah Salkaházi, whom we now honor among the happy ones of the Catholic Church. Margit Slachta resisted the Arrow and Nazi movements, even though he tried to make it impossible, he resisted the communist movements, although they tried to make it impossible, and an example of KDNP as an historic party was also a KDNP Member of Parliament, a Democratic People's Party MP was Margit Slachta, an ally whom we can appreciate very much. There may be a dispute between us and Péter Ungár that the activities of the parliamentary representatives of Margit Slachta were closer to the world view of us, but this is an unnecessary debate. Peter Ungár also said that Margit Slachta would have voted in favour of his recent submission. I am also sure that on 12 December 2018 he would not have been standing here in Parliament with a loudspeaker, a bombie, and he would have voted in favour of the children's home care fee, but this debate leads very far away, but rather we should speak in the voice of common respect about our first female parliamentary representative, who was not, by the way, a monk, and he also founded a monastic order, a Hungarian-founding feminine order, the Society of Social Brothers. That is why, when this idea came up by my fellow Member, Péter Ungár, and we joined, I sought the leadership of the order, who gave their consent to use the name Slachta Margit, if the Parliament gives the authority to do so, then the National Social Policy Institute will be able to use the name Slachta Margit. And the leaders of the order were particularly pleased that they were also pro-government and opposition representatives on the list of petitioners, so we received a confirmation letter from them after the submission. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is no coincidence that, as a monk, Margit Slachta spoke in favour of church institutions and social institutions on numerous occasions, and he himself founded such an institution. His last speech here in the Hungarian Parliament was about protesting against the forced nationalisation of church schools, which the Communist regime did, unfortunately, with a great deal of efficiency. It is no coincidence that the present government also strives to increase church involvement in education, the social and child protection sectors and, moreover, in health care, because we believe that church maintainers can add a spiritual plus to care, they can provide a spiritual plus for the children, the elderly, the disabled, the homeless, the people in need, which we regard as valuable, and therefore we regard the social engagement of churches as a value, and that is why we consider the churches as partners in social, child protection care. I think that the person of Margit Slachta, who was also a politician and was also a monk, institutional supporter and founder of institutions, can thus be very well connected on behalf of the Social Policy Institute, where professional, methodological and training issues will be decided in the future, which will fundamentally define the social sphere in Hungary in the future. And I very much hope that future governments and officials and politicians of different colours will not take that name off this institution and this work in some way, and that when we no longer look at parliamentary debates here in Hungary, there will also be people who will remember Slachta Margit and cherish his memory even through the Institute. Because unfortunately, the reality of Slachta Margit today is that most of the news is when there was an accident at the Slachta Margit quay or maybe congestion... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Compared to this, it is very important that the social brothers cherish the memory of conferences, that there are publications, that there are books, and I think that it is time, for example, to raise this to a higher level of public speech by naming a state institution. We joined this proposal for a reason, it is not a coincidence that a unit is outlined in this, although I have seen that there is a Member of the Parliament who has already attacked this proposal on his community side and attacked the name. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm afraid that's going to be...
u2021-03-16-193	Excuse me, Congressman. Congresswoman, with due respect, I would ask you to finish your comments, not in Parliament. Speaking in an elevated mood, really close to the heart of a man, and you keep commenting. I didn't mean to interrupt, but it can't be tolerated. Excuse me, I think I am right to say this on behalf of all my fellow Members here, and please refrain. You'll have a chance to speak. Thank you. Go on, Congressman.
u2021-03-16-194	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much to everyone who will work in the institution named after Margaret Slachta, and we hope that the workers there will also try to be worthy of the legacy of Margaret Slachta, and as a politician, a public figure, and as a prominent figure in the social sphere, we will be able to look at her as a role model and to those brave people who during that period, saying no to the Arrow, Nazi dictatorship, and saying no to the Communist dictatorship, people and Christians could remain. Margaret Slachta was a true Christian Democrat, which is why we support her, and that is why we joined the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-03-16-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-03-16-196	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. For Fidesz, social policy is like a step for a politician in Brussels, and they can't do anything about it. For some reason, you can't help people. We've seen this now, during the plague. Among the countries of Europe, the Hungarian government provides the least assistance to those in need. People feel that, and that's why, among other things, they're gonna replace you. It is typical of the relationship between Fidesz and social policy that there has been such an institution in Hungary, but you have renamed it twice in the last ten years, and then it was abolished in 2016, and now this background institution has been re-established, and when the opposition proposal was made to name the institute Margit Slachta, the government representatives not only supported it, but two joined it. After that, it's quiet. It is as if this naming has replaced all the omissions they have made in the field of social policy. I can hear them bringing up the CSK and other subsidies against my claim. Here is the two-faced nature of your family policy, because it always helps a certain social class, close to you, at the cost that those who do not belong to it, who really need it, are in even more serious situations. What they give to some, they take away from others. I have bad news, my honourable members of the Government: the fact that you have accepted the opposition proposal does not make you more socially sensitive. The name of Margit Slachta includes a spirituality that can only be perceived in your case by the distance between Mako and Jerusalem. [[18.10]] Margit Slachta was not only the first female representative, but also the main task of helping the poor, increasing the social budget, building apartments and women's equality. These former aspirations are in stark contrast to the current policy of Fidesz. For more than ten years, Fidesz and KDNP have been increasing social scissors to the detriment of the poor. On the other hand, you operate on luxury yachts while proclaiming that women are not fit for politics, stay in the kitchen and have nothing to do but have children. There is no trace of Margit Slachta's spirituality in your politics. Read the justification for the proposal, which underlines that in its programme, Margit Slachta considered social problems as the greatest tension in society in addition to family focus. He wanted social care within the framework of an organised social policy. He said that we should not only think about reducing poverty and suffering, but we should try to eliminate the causes of poverty and poverty. When you were eager to name the institution, you must have seen that Slachta Margit was acting on Christian principles. But that probably didn't get to your senses of how different her picture was from that of Fidesz. In the historical magazine Rubicon, it was said that the Christian adjective was a separation from radical liberal feminism, but feminism also distanced itself from conservative views, only accepting women as family mothers. Margit Slachta did not want to touch social issues with the charity of bored ladies, not with free soup or with clothing aid, but with social care within the framework of organised social policy. Fidesz is stuck again in this case at the level of visual politics. Let us be clear: you are obviously familiar with Margit Slachta's work, just so that, as usual, only part of the truth is raisined. Because not only does your policy lack the essence of Margaret Slachta's spirit, but also the thoughtful planning and the resources needed for the operation of the institute. In fact, the 2021 Budget Act does not see any budgetary support at this address. Moreover, from January onwards, news has appeared that workers transferred from DG Social Affairs and Children's Protection will have lower salaries. The restructuring is carried out by losing the status of government officials with many advantages, including higher wages, and becoming ordinary employees. In addition, the regulation on this is also embedded in the wage reduction, as it says, and I quote: "The salary must not be lower than 80% of the government official's salary on 31 December 2020. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We see, therefore, that even though Fidesz has been in power for ten years, it can't easily manage the transformation of a number of institutions. Your knowledge has only spread to the point that they have quickly taken on an opposition naming proposal, while they have no idea of its background, its true spirit. Of course, you can say that it is finally an opposition initiative that you support. But I ask you quietly: is the opposition proposal on the renaming of the institute really the only thing the government can support? The fact is that only the MSZP has put forward numerous proposals that could have been drawn up in the same way. Let's get this straight. Why didn't you support the introduction of 100 percent of the sick? Why has our initiative to increase the time and amount of unemployment benefit not been heard? Why didn't you have a willingness to abolish the tightening of social security rights? When we suggested raising the minimum pension, introducing the Swiss indexation pension calculation and giving pensioners a one-off, extraordinary allowance, why wasn't it acquitted? After that, it is not over, we suggested that the minimum wage at least be paid for community service, to double the family allowances, family allowances, children, children and maternity allowance. Fidesz didn't support any of them. Or, speaking of the social sphere, when we initiated a one-time payment of HUF 500,000 for social workers, why didn't they want to take it into their name? Why didn't you join us on the proposal to raise the wages of social workers? Fidesz wouldn't even negotiate these. This shows how empty and weightless your politics is. The MSZP supports the name of the institute after Margit Slachta, but at the same time we stand in favour of Fidesz' support not only in naming, but also in achieving all the goals that marked the work of Margit Slachta. Thank you for listening.
u2021-03-16-197	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent congresswoman to apply. Here comes Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-198	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have gotten used to in the last 11 years, an opposition representative makes a proposal to the Parliament, and the pro-government representatives support it. Isn't that how it usually is? No, not like this. Maybe I remember wrong? Fidesz MEPs usually support opposition proposals. Or is it just a separate situation, a separate backup deal? It was submitted on 19 January 2021 by H/14632. The proposal on the National Social Policy Institute of Margit Slachta. The National Social Policy Institute was established as a successor to DG Social and Child Protection from 1 January 2021, which coordinates the social security system. The government is 610-2020. It was created by a government decree, and then we ask why if a government decree could create an organisation, then why can't the government give it a name. Because I think that the designation, naming of a government body is a government authority, and why it requires a parliamentary resolution proposal from the opposition to name an organisation created and operated by a government. Since 2010, the government has created countless institutions, named them after the people who played a significant role in our history, and the Parliament did not have to decide on this at all times. After the government competence of naming and the Member could propose to the government, it was unnecessary to do so in a parliamentary resolution proposal. If it was to get more attention to the submitting representatives, then they could have considered how humiliating this was for Slachta Margit even after his death, because if the government wanted to name an institution from him, the public secretary of state said that he would be happy to name this institution after Slachta Margit, then why would it require a parliamentary resolution proposal, which is in no way competent in such matters. The majority of the Parliament was thirty years late with the rehabilitation of Margit Slachta, the older of the authors were thirty years late, and the younger were one year late. If they really respected him, a year ago they wouldn't have been so uninterested when it was the 100th anniversary of Margit Slachta entering the National Assembly building on 14 April 1920 as a representative. She was the first woman. For months, I have asked many of my fellow Members to hold a celebration for this, because it is a wonderful thing that the first female MEP has a 100th anniversary of his accession to the National Assembly. There was only one memorial that was in the Parliament building, and this was on 25 March 2020 when State Secretary Miklós Soltész stood up, and in a speech after the agenda he remembered only Slachta Margit for five minutes, because the election day was March 25, 1920. The reason I was forced to establish the award in memory of Margit Slachta on the 100th anniversary is because the Parliament... and its only representative, Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, did not wish to make any commemoration for the 100th anniversary of this wonderful woman. This woman has shown outstanding results in the social field, which was unique not only in Hungary but also worldwide. Ten minutes was enough to prepare this proposal, and that was all there was to remember Margit Slachta, but a worthy memorial really would have taken a lot more time and a lot more money, which was probably tiring for everyone. [[18.20]] Since no Member was willing to cooperate in this commemoration, I wrote the following letter to the Speaker on 17 October 2019. I apologize for coming to you before the beginning of the session in the midst of your busy work, but the period of campaigns is over, and I would like to start building to help our society develop. As you can see, Mr. President, a picture is attached to my letter. This picture was taken of pictures on the wall of my office: when I started this uplifting work, I wanted to bring around women who inspired me in my human, professional and political development. One of the five women was Margaret Slachta, who was the first female representative of the Hungarian Parliament. He was born into a Polish highland family and stayed home when he emigrated to the United States in 1908 because of his family's economic bankruptcy. Then he stopped teaching and became a social worker. It was also on the political stage that it was able to expand its strong social commitment by forming a party. In 1920, he became a member of the National Assembly. You have endangered your freedom and your life with your determined, noble goals. After Slovakia announced the complete de-Jewishing in 1943, he traveled to Rome to personally urge him to attend XII. Pope Pius for action. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's Wikipedia!]] He hid our fellow Jewish countryman in his house, and a member of his company, Sarah Salkaházi, died of martyrdom here. He held his last speech in Parliament on 26 June 1948 against the nationalization of church schools, then in 1949 he was forced to emigrate, fearing the retribution of the Communists. There are several statues of our great predecessor and role model around Parliament's building. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. a statue was erected in a district in memory of his residence in that district, but I would like the President of the House to take the initiative and, as a prominent representative of the governing party, to erect a statue somewhere around Parliament's building in memory of Margit Slachta. Of course, it is not important for me to have the initiative attached to me, to be made public, but it is only important that we raise a statue of this great creation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, it didn't work either. Not only was Marxist after World War II, but many of the Christian convictions considered Margit Slachta as a representative of outdated Kleralism, his speeches were also received by sarcastic, obscene interrogations in this Chamber. He became a recurring charge, because he was the only member of the National Assembly of 20-22 at the same time as the post-45. Why would that be? Obviously, there was no other way to break the huge moral capital earned by Jewish rescue, or at least to start. However, with political life slipping to the left, it became increasingly impossible for him to pursue his political career. In the years of socialism, it was either silenced, or if it was mentioned, it was called reactionary, Horthy-friendly, Nazi-fascist in order to defile the person. After the change of regime, we thought he'd be rehabilitated based on his true judgment, but he didn't. It was necessary to wait until 2010 for at least one quay to be named after it and in 2017 it was decided to erect a statue at its former police station. Why his rehabilitation didn't take place? Because after the change of regime, democracy was played by those with the same spirit who maintained the socialist system. I would like to present from the records of the National Assembly at that time how some of your spiritual ancestors felt about this noble soul, the life of the fallen and the man dedicated to women. On February 12, 1947, the president of the National Assembly tried to prevent him from telling his interpellation, but Margit Slachta's argument was forced to allow it. And how did István Juhász comment on your spiritual predecessor? It's all about talking! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm Then, on February 14, Slachta Margit said, before speaking to the subject placed on the agenda, he would like to reply to Mr Kállai's remark that there is so much freedom of the press that even his reactionary articles will be allowed to appear. Gyula Kállai, was an ideologist of the Hungarian Communist Party and called it freedom if an article was not banned. Then, July 23, 1947, when Margit Slachta said what he meant about democracy in the National Assembly, your spiritual predecessor Károly Spitálszky reacted:. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Then, when she continued to say: "We mean democracy, and this Christian democracy, that we recognize the right of all the citizens of the country, then your spiritual predecessor Juliet Turkish shouted, "The murderers too?" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When he argued that we were all surrounded by a sea of lost war, we were like the woman and the lion on that rock. Is it worthy of us to attack each other if there is even an opportunity to do so instead of united with a sincere, righteous feeling, a sense of justice, and respect for one another? Consider it not the only worthy, just, and smart thing to do now is to unite and not crush each other. Let's just say amen, and no one will regret it. Then your spiritual predecessor, Károly Spitálszky, sarcasticly noted:, Give the fascists the right to vote, right? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When he spoke against the sweeping down of religious education and argued that in order to enforce jobs, advantages, power, glory, interest, passions, and even revenge, that democratic principle shrunk thinner, until it finally reached its destination in this bill before us when it came to closing church schools and the expulsion of religious teaching material from schools, what did your spiritual predecessor, Spitalszky, say? Slachta's trumping democracy! They still couldn't forget that. When he argued that the greatest sin of this Parliament was that the nation that forced our state life from the foundation of the Christian worldview, and that this was reflected in such legislation, what was the response of their spiritual predecessors? You don't talk about Christianity, you talk about 25 sticks. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then when he further reasoned that since the siege much bitterness had been accumulated in the souls of those who did not see justice and justice realized: I do not want to speak long. And your spiritual predecessor, Károly Spitálszky, answered: "This is luck! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And when you suggest it's the last time it's going to be, the left line is the, let's hope. It sounds like a word. Then on March 13th, 1947, when you say that tomorrow you will be taxed on breathtaking, and under such circumstances it is unscrupulous to take even the one that doesn't cost money, which doesn't cost the budget, and which is indeed the natural right of every individual to follow his own convictions, and what was the yelling out of the communists? They're going to explain it. And Paul Schiffer yelled, "Well, that's what he dreamed! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And what did you find out after that? That everything Slachta Margaret was right about, and what she predicted as a result of the sick system, it certainly did happen, and I must say that its spirituality still works to this day. When you talked about how it would be appropriate for the ministries to be a first consideration, how competent, how professional and demanding that Dezső Keresztury be called back to the head of the Ministry of Culture, that's what we should do, not look up a party man who will be read on the third day of his ministry that this and this and this have been on his behalf, and what did a communist shout in? It is not a good letter of recommendation if you are praised by our fellow Member! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On June 16, 1948, he gave his last speech, when he spoke against nationalization of church schools: what did György Marosán shout to him in a very tasteful manner? Go to the monastery, Ophelia. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm On 29 August 1946, he spoke of the fact that all he wanted to say was that he was not speaking against the woman's progress, but that it was desirable for the family - sustaining man to have a salary that would enable him to support the family, and that she could choose freely to stay in the family, to want to stay in the family, or to take a job. Then, at the end of this speech, what did Ferenc Révész, your spiritual predecessor shout? The problem with you is you didn't just choose one! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And I could go on and on and on about all those naughty, harsh-spirited yellings and the humiliation of his person that he had to suffer in this House. When he spoke of the Holy Crown and the Holy Crown, he could hear only such words as bringing the crown from Asia; giving back the crown, buying the wheat for it, and Anna Ratko, who was extremely clever, even shouted that the Slachta Margit should listen! So, when I founded the Slachta Margit Memorial Prize, KDNP issued a statement under the title of Social Brothers Society on the initiative of Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, in which it was told that we would use this woman's noble life for political purposes. I would like to ask, is this proposal not the same? By the way, you have untruely stated that this company has the right to grant all rights in respect of Margit Slachta, and you have no right to do so. But I have just asked them by e-mail that they have now given their consent to this proposal, but of course I have not received an answer. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I just answered!]] [[18.30]] So there's no human, I mean, normal person, who doesn't want to keep the memory of Slachta Margit in the widest sense, and carry on his spirituality. The 30-year delay is certainly at the expense of everyone who has been partying in this Parliament for 30 years. I think, Mr Secretary of State, if you are here, and you are listening to this, that I cannot imagine that the government could not have given this institute the name Slachta Margit on its own, and to do so, this tour should be carried out by a opposition Member proposing that the opposition has not accepted any of the 1500 proposals of the government side in this term. I don't think this one can solve that 1500. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-16-199	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, No one's applied for two-minute speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members how they would still like to speak within the framework of our agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Ungár, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-16-200	Thank you very much. I just want a very short comment to conclude this debate. Basically, I think everyone who commented agreed that the first female representative of the Parliament deserves to be named after it. Everyone has agreed that his memory is something that inspires the members of Parliament to do better, and I think this is a good first step. Hopefully this will continue in concrete terms over the next period, and hopefully the government and the majority of the government will accept several proposals prepared in the spirit of Margit Slachta, even if he does not have to agree with everything. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]]
u2021-03-16-201	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, LMP Group, asked for a post-meeting speech with the title of our city, Pécs. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-202	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, after the agenda, I talk about the fate and problems of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, and now we have to talk about the University of Pécs. I must advance the significance of Pécs and Baranya in the life of the university. This can be expressed quite clearly by the fact that Pécs, Baranya, and we can say that the fate of the entire South-Transdanubian region is intertwined with the University of Pécs. In this speech after the short agenda, we must talk about the outsourcing of the model change, we must talk about the threat of withdrawal of development resources, and we must talk about the fact that once again one of Pécs's parliamentary representatives, Péter Hoppál, has turned against his region and his own electorate. At the same time, I'd like to start with some good news, some news that every Pécsi can be proud of. Not so long ago, the University of Pécs announced that in one of the most prestigious international rankings, the University of Pécs received a very positive, very prestigious classification and was rated as the best Hungarian rural university. This is certainly a recognition, and this underlines that despite the many years of withdrawal, humiliatingly low education and research wages and employee wages, the University of Pécs operates very well and efficiently. All employees of the University of Pécs certainly deserve all the recognition. At the same time, we can see that, contrary to previous government communication, a wave of outsourcing or model change launched in a storm tempo has already reached the University of Pécs, and despite the fact that, here in this Chamber, not so long ago, Parliamentary Secretary Bodis, former Rector of the University of Pécs, the former President of the Rector's Conference, said himself that he wishes to proceed more carefully, in the case of the government and the largest rural universities, they do not want to rush the outsourcing, but this has happened in the form of a dictatorship. The process that we experienced was quite shocking, and it can also be said during this period that the government did not provide any meaningful information to those decision makers who would then have had some sort of internal discussion and debate with university citizens, so there was no basis for the process during which the university Senate had to take some kind of position. It is very important that the decision of the university Senate was supportive, that the process of changing the model should start, that the negotiations should start on the change of model, that very, very important guarantees have been formulated, that what they consider to be a foundation, that must be included in a forthcoming submission to Parliament. Professor Tamás Mellár, another Member of the Parliament of Pécs and I myself have put forward a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament, which is intended to enforce these guarantees by university citizens and university leaders. These guarantees are highlighted in the need to ensure that professional and scientific decisions are not dealt with from the outside; this should always be the competence of the Senate elected by the university citizens and the rector elected by the Senate. Obviously, it is very important that it is not possible to achieve a type of outsourcing, a change of model, to outsource the university to a foundation where curators are elected by the government. The Senate has no real influence on this, the curators are unrecallable, their assignments are timeless, and practically all decisions are taken. These guarantees have been submitted and no positive response has yet been received. Astoundingly, at the meeting of the Cultural Committee, one of the pro-government representatives confirmed that blackmail, which has been said several times over the last few weeks and months, was not expected to come to the world of science, research and higher education in the next development period. That's quite a shock. It is also shocking that Mr.Péter Hoppál, breaking several weeks of silence at this committee meeting, took pride in supporting the outsourcing of the University of Pécs. Experience has shown that this will happen by organizing the university, university decision-making, university real estate, which are typically led by fidesz politicians or specifically government members based on previous experience. We believe that this is completely unacceptable and that such a decision cannot be taken without a substantive social debate. Therefore, without informing and involving public opinion in Pécs, it is not possible to outsource and privatise the institution that determines the future of our city and region in this way, without guarantees. In order to ensure that Congressman Hoppál can defend his opinion in front of public opinion in Pécs and Baranya, we initiated an open debate with Tamás Mellár, but Mr Hoppál simply refused to do so cowardly, refused to take part in such an online debate and confront his position. This is certainly shameful, and we believe that once again, Mr Peter Hoppál has turned against his constituents. But here we do not give up the struggle by which we wish to guarantee guarantees in this system so that the University of Pécs can maintain its professional and scientific autonomy. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-16-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu, DK Group, has applied for a post- Agenda speech:. Can deforestation be prevented under the current Nature Conservation Act? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-204	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. The Tavirózság Environmental and Nature Conservation Association has sent me an open letter. As far as I know, this has also been received by the Presidents of Parliament's parties, and also by ministers and supreme authorities in the sector concerned. This open letter is about the fact that there is a metropolitan nature conservation area in my constituency, which was created to protect the Szilas Creek, the forest next to Lake Szilas, and they are volunteering to cultivate this beautiful area, which contains a forest of 9-10 hectares on about 20 hectares of undivided common property, which has a special flora, fauna and a lake in the forest. It was built on peat-based soil, and in this peat the forest grew relatively rapidly, and this forest began to be cut down by the local population, the local volunteering association mentioned above, and I must add that the administratively competent XV. the law on the protection of nature, on the basis of which there is no need for an outskirts... because this is not an interior property, it is an external property. [[18.40]] The property on the outskirts belongs to the government office. This government authority operates in Érden, and the authority in Érd, without knowing what the area is and what it looks like, issued a tree cutting permit. So the protest, the collection of signatures, is about, and in an open letter, the association calls on politicians, the representatives of the parliamentary parties, to take action against a law that allows the slaughter of several hectares by handing out these trees as social trees and in market sales, but there is no guarantee of what kind of forest planting is taking place at the site of the cut-out trees, although even the final tree cutting permit of the authority could only be given to the municipality on a separate request. There is a description of the replanting of the tree, but there is no description of about 50 birds' nests, which are otherwise registered, those special plants, especially protected animals, and since there is a lake, there are also special fish that have remained without trees in this area, and the protection of nature has been damaged in this way. For what I asked for, after the arrival of this letter, I asked our MP Balázs Barkóczi, the spokesperson of the party, because in the meantime it has been revealed that he is a conservationist, he understands these things, and we have both visited this area. It was bad to watch. As a local MP, I didn't realize that 6-8 hectares of forest had been cut out mainly during the night and on the weekend, and that it had been picked up and restored that the people of Újpalota, the people of Rákospalota, didn't need to know anything about it, and the municipality, the XV. The district has neither the right to veto nor the right to appeal in this case. What law is it where the local administration has the right to grant a permit to chop down the fruit tree on the property in the interior, but it can't even ask for an opinion on the cutting of several hectares, in the same area, of course, outside, i.e. in the agricultural area, but let's say 600 metres from the interior, and there we no longer have a licence. What I'm asking for is that I think there's a benefit in the field of environmental protection. Climate justice, when we make different decisions here in the limit values for climate emissions, we do not think that in this programme, it is about planting forests, planting forests and capturing CO2 emissions; we talk about it, we talk about it, and in reality what happens is that they destroy nature and the environment on the basis of profit. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-16-205	Thank you. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group has applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-16-206	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. In my previous comment, I quoted a letter from a health worker in Újpest here, with the aim of having experience, even listening to an individual opinion on what should be done. I would now like to convey to you the opposite, the cry or the voice of thousands of people, the opinion of many more people, just because thousands of people in Újpesten filled out the petition that the municipality launched two weeks ago in Újpesten. The signatories to the petition demand government compensation, which is entitled to our district after the withdrawal of the last period. The Constitutional Court stated that the government cannot, without compensation, take the tax revenues of the municipalities by endangering the duties to be performed, and in this situation, in which the government has decided, this is the case. This means that this compensation is due to our district, and I expect that, when the government decides to do so, we should remain on the principle of legality and, in addition to the political decision, that it is not possible to damage more than 100,000 people for purely political purposes, for what is apparently the government's objective. Despite all this, the Újpest municipality has decided or does to act in excess of its power, which indicates that it is prepared to become even its own professional clinic fireplace. He was prepared to do so, so that the intent of the mass vaccination that the government is talking about, although he does not, should be the location and place of this opportunity. This would require the government to ensure that vaccination is carried out. We have heard several times today that the vaccine is here in the country. Well, then, why don't you just accept the opportunity to support and help thousands of people and reduce their fear of this disease? Mayor Tibor Déri has offered Újpest to resolve the shipment and to do whatever is necessary to ensure that the Újpest people have access to the vaccine, but I can see from today's debate that they can find deaf ears in this regard. To the government, I think that this incompetence, as it proves in this situation, on this subject, overrides everything. Once again, I ask you to accept this offer from the local authorities, to allow as many people as possible to obtain the vaccine that we all need. I say this also because we know it well, or if we don't, I'll quote it back to you:. The success of defense is measured in the number of deaths... Everyone can relax, because if you catch the disease, you'll be cured. These are all Viktor Orbán's statements. His claims were made when more than 17,000 died on that day as a result of this disease. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, In such a situation, social aspirations, municipal and civil aspirations that want to help this situation cannot be ignored. It would be good if the words were, on your part, to be associated with them at last, because it would be good if they stopped helping the municipalities, at least not to prevent them from doing the work they would otherwise be willing to do, for the benefit of all of us, of course. And in conclusion, I would like to share with you a piece of news that is evidence that it can be done together to combat this epidemic. Újpesten the body of representatives and the mayor turned to the citizens of Újpest in a joint manifesto in order for everyone to apply for vaccination and, if they think so, to take advantage of the possibility to inoculate themselves and to take care of all of us, his family, his surroundings, and in this way the government should better help. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-03-16-207	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, MEP, DK Group, applied for a post-meeting speech. When can the people of Kőbánya take possession of the new specialist? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-16-208	Thank you very much. Dear House, An old problem for the inhabitants of Kőbánya is the state of the clinic. The old health home on Kőbánya Road is now hopelessly outdated, and its renovation is not possible, and the construction technology does not allow this. For this reason, it was long overdue for a new, modern clinic to be built in Stone Mine. Therefore, everyone welcomed the announcement in 2017 that a new clinic was being built on the site of Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital on Maglódi út. On the one hand, there was some debate at the location election, because on the other hand the advantage is that the new clinic is also integrated into the hospital, because this allows medical capacities to be better organised, and the specialist himself belongs to the Bajcsy Hospital, but on the other hand, it has been suggested that the choice of premises may be problematic because the hospital itself is difficult to reach, parking is difficult, and public transport is not very good. [[18.50]] But basically everyone was happy that the new clinic was finally being built, and everyone was excited about the construction. Construction progressed well, at least as far as campaigning was concerned: In the spring of 2018 they hung up in the presence of the Fidesz parliamentary candidate... sorry, they didn't set the foundation stone, there they didn't even announce that the building had been granted a building permit. I've never seen anyone celebrate this at a special ceremony before, but that's what happened. Then, by the end of the year, they arrived at the fact that the foundation stone was actually laid in December, obviously already preparing for the municipal election in the presence of Minister Kásler and the mayor. Again, they announced that the construction would begin just in case. They also promised in December 2018 that the building will be ready by the end of the next year, so by the end of 2019. There was a problem: the building wasn't finished. Then, in the summer of 2019, it was announced that the building would be completed in February 2020. Guess what, the building's ready. The building's not ready. We are now at a point where, not only in May 2020, the building cannot receive patients, but it is also not certain that the new clinic will finally receive patients in May 2021, as we still have no credible information as to when the professional clinic can be completed. The investment is also a typical public investment in the sense that they forgot to ask the opinion of the people in the area and there was no proper consultation. As a result, some little things were forgotten. The most important of these is that a series of parking spaces were closed because of the construction of the new clinic, while the area was crowded in front of it because of the parking of patients and visitors arriving at the hospital, and the new parking spaces were not established. As a result, the total chaos has been steady for two years now in this otherwise quiet suburban area of Bajcsy Hospital, the patients and visitors are unable to properly accommodate their cars, but the people who live there cannot park in front of their own house, the corks are constant, the congestion and the confusion are constant. Now the municipality is trying to find a solution to this issue, which, of course, is not facilitated by the fact that its own resources have fallen significantly, and the government has also distracted local authorities, including the Municipality of Kőbánya. They should now find a solution with no money for it. Of course, we are all fundamentally interested in opening up the clinic as soon as possible and resolving traffic problems as soon as possible. I would add that there are not only parking problems, there will also be a need for a change in public transport so that the clinic can be reached from the city centre and from the new mountain housing site for elderly people, if any sick people. Vice Mayor Géza Mustó will therefore write a letter to the BKK and we will initiate a review of public transport in the area. But the most important thing is that we get an answer to when the expert will finally open. I regret that, although I gave you the subject that I will talk about in the title of my speech, the representatives of the government did not consider it important to be here and to respond to my post- Agenda comment. But I'm not gonna settle for that, and I'm gonna keep coming at them until they answer when they're gonna hand over the clinic, how they're gonna solve parking problems and public transport problems, and who's responsible for the multi-annual slippage. Thank you very much. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It was awesome! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-03-16-209	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-16-210	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, the pro-government representatives are aware of the topics that we intend to come up with in the post- Agenda hours, and what problems of Hungarianism we wish to solve together, but there is no reaction, secretary of state, or minister's response to them. In the same way as on the next issue, which concerns the replacement of lost wages, it is precisely that a year after the outbreak and crisis began, the government has now reached March to extend its microscopic wage support programme a little. In a year, you have managed to achieve some measurable support for about 5 percent of jobs. I will not reveal a secret by saying that in Austria, Germany, this ratio is 15-20 percent or even higher in terms of the number of existing jobs. In Hungary, it is now promised a month's worth of out-of-work replacement. At the same time, we can see that secrets are hidden in the fine print section, and that very often fails to include partial minimum support. And, well, we are talking about Hungary, the fact is that some of the funds promised in November-December were in vain in their accounts by employees and employers at the beginning of February. We see, therefore, that months have passed with the possibility of stopping meaningful work in whole sectors. For this reason, Jobbik will demand 80 percent of all wages lost for the remaining months. We do this because this transfer is essentially and largely spent on the domestic economy in Hungary. Hungarian workers with lost wages will not spend money on luxury yachting, they will not spend it on exotic trips abroad, they will spend it on domestic consumer goods, they may be able to contribute to the survival of other Hungarian entrepreneurs by buying online. And this money, in a manner of speaking, goes for it. We have an unspoken social contract with these people, Hungarian workers. They're the ones carrying the budget, the national economy on their backs. They are the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that provide two thirds of the Hungarian jobs to this country. They're the ones pulling that wagon, which is now crooked because of the emergency, but that's why the unspoken social contract is about if we see these people pulling on their backs, we're in trouble, we're giving them a helping hand. In Austria, the budget shall pay, where appropriate, the salary lost up to 80-90 per cent of the total salary. Accommodation service providers were specifically considered: 80 percent of the revenue lost is compensated here as well. We see that they also focus on part-time workers in Germany. What is the general picture in Hungary? Many workers were forced from full - time to part - time work, or from part - time work without paying at home. Apparently, we still have employment, but we can't get a salary, a substantial income, especially not 100 percent of the previous one. Interestingly, part - time workers in Germany can also receive more than 60% of their net wages in the first three months. In order to compensate for shorter working hours, this replacement can be increased from day 90 to up to 87 percent. We also see that in the Czech Republic, the government can receive wage subsidies for up to nine months. Where did something like this come up in Hungary? There would be resources. In the budget, Hungary's government talks about horrific figures, if only it had actually turned at least one third of this into workers and indeed into difficult situations. And we also see that every country is trying to conclude that it is necessary to keep the individual worker whose work is being supported and to keep these jobs as long as possible until the end of the crisis. We would also like to see similar initiatives in Hungary. But we would also see the elegance that can be found in, say, the French system with the exceptional unemployment benefit: the government guarantees up to 84 percent of the employees' net salary, and the state puts these resources behind them up to four and a half times the minimum wage. I understand that other national economies have different backgrounds, but I also see that if it is for space exploration, hunting exhibitions, completely meaningless Budapest-Belgrád investment, then at least part of the price of pyramid constructions and cicoma investments should be used here for Hungarian workers, because I would like to stress that these are the people who carry the national economy on their backs, and if we want this to be the case in the future and imagine their lives in Hungary, then this strategic contract must now be concluded with them. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2021-03-16-211	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Representative Andrea Varga-Damm applied for a post-meeting speech, an independent representative:.. Today's hypocritical politics will not make the sins of the past disappear. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[19.00]]
u2021-03-16-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For a year now, there has been a war between the government and that part of the opposition that has ruled before. One of the fundamental reasons for this war is the opposition's view that the government is not handling the coronal virus epidemic well, that the institutional system is not working well, and that there are many shortcomings in it. Of course that's true, I share it myself. But most importantly, if we want to give this period at least a lesson for the future, then let us look at the past in the past fifty-sixty years of the government administration of the CDC. The National Institute of Public Health was founded in 1925 and, of course, three years later, we would be celebrating its 100-year foundation if it had not been interrupted by a series of unprepared politicians who have ruined the mission and meaning of this institution. After there was no money for anything in the country after Trianon, however, poverty and deterioration of hygiene conditions have rapidly increased the emergence of infectious diseases, in 1924 the Rockefeller Foundation decided to hear well, the Rockefeller Foundation to establish the foundations for public health development in Hungary with a grant of $245 thousand. This is why this excellent institution started in 1927 after the 1925 announcement. Then the '50s came, and they started to decommission, and gradually, until the change of regime, the activity of this became empty. Just because hygiene conditions have improved significantly in our country, former leaders believed that the age of infectious diseases had expired. The widespread poverty after the change of regime has revived the emergence of infectious diseases, and since 1990 a similar integrative building under the name of ÁNTSZ began in the case of the epidemic, as was the National Centre for Public Health. On September 17th, 2017, what do the people working in the epidemic report on? For many years, I worked in the SAO, but the downsizing was continuous, but small. The former restructuring of the ÁNTSZ was also a major cut, but the National Epidemiology Center was left out of these major changes. We've had little room for manoeuvre, but things have always changed on a professional basis, there have been fights and struggles, yet they have left us to work as an independent institution, and the Chief Medical Officer's Office has allowed us to do so. The money was running low, but internal transfers could create the source for many things. But now there's complete uncertainty. With the restructuring, key people left the business. 2017. Then, in 2019, a year before the outbreak, there was a report that the extinguishing centre had officially ceased, which would have been 60 years old, that the decommissioning wave had started, and that virtually the patina extinguishing center had almost ceased. So what can we tell you? This government has done everything in its power in the years before the outbreak to stab the epidemic that has already been torn apart even more in the heart. But, as I said earlier, an integration started with the reorganization of the SAO in 90, but by the mid-2000s, politicians, the then socialist government, thought that we should not take the CDC so seriously, we do not need enough people to work in it. And what happened in 2006? 404 people were set aside, and by the time this was over, 563 people were released from this area. The fact, to their credit, is that at least in August 2009 the requirements for preparing for a pandemic influenza were published on the GNSZ website because the European Commission decided in 2009 that such strategies should be developed in each country, i.e. they could not postpone the establishment of at least one coherent set of rules. Of course, this was annulled by the Orbán government from 2010. What conclusion can we draw? Those who have previously governed and who are now ruling cannot blame each other in any way in the demise of the CDC, because this, which is now established, was created together. Thank you very much. [[János Bencsik applauds.]]
u2021-03-16-213	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Horváth, Fidesz Group, applied for a speech with the title of a non-evasive road. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-16-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Every road leads somewhere, every road has meaning, purpose, direction, and, of course, the roads have their own history. Unfinished roads are symbols of loss of purpose, aimlessness and self-destruction. Such an abandoned, sad symbol is also the Pearly Evasive Road, the Western Evasive, as the locals call it, which, let alone the west side of the city, avoids nothing but him and the Pearls to keep their fortunes and a promise. That's all that happened. It's been abandoned for decades, aimless, abandoned by the road, its asphalt not by vehicles, but by time, worn and worn out, and it proves that he is the master, I mean, time. And there's no doubt about it, because today, the twisted, truncated part of the avoider is no longer fit to receive traffic. How different that story started. When was that? The dream landed after 2002. Public procurement was launched in 2003, and contracts were concluded in 2004, although it was later amended several times. It was a beautiful dream, the Pearls loved it, because the dreaming socialist city leadership, the socialist MPs and even the socialist-free Democrat government announced it, it would be easier for the Pearls to live, avoid traffic passing through the city, reduce congestion, air pollution, noise pollution, and risk of accidents. Good plan, good plan. Who wouldn't be happy about that? Of course, you could have peeked at the beginning of it by saying that it was only a half-solution, because the planned bypass leads the bypasses to the busiest road in the city, to the central part, instead of at least avoiding some of Gyöngyös completely. In addition, it could have been said that the road was too narrow and that the road was dangerous, and the rest, but it was neither necessary nor advisable to be lost in these times in the otherwise unpublic details. How could there be any doubt that everything was going in the best direction? After all, in 2004, Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány himself, Member of the Socialist Parliament György Hiesz, mayor of the city, and Tamás Soós, a Socialist MP, and the President of the County General Assembly on the spot, visited the press in public and announced that the new path would be handed over to traffic in 2006. True, there will be even a parliamentary election, but it is worth voting for the socialists, because they are the guarantees of the continuation. The election came, the socialists won, they continued, just not where they were supposed to, just not the way they promised. The promised road construction stopped. Never mind, the completed, more precisely, the unfinished, never-to-anything path has yet been handed over. No, not traffic, because it was less than a mile and a half, but it has already gone nearly a billion or more forints to build, but there is still 900 million to complete, and in time the public could have known. György Hiesz, Member of the Socialist Parliament, mayor reassured everyone: the missing money is at the liberal transport wallet. He didn't realize this until a year later, because in 2007 he announced that 900 million forints had disappeared at the Ministry. He's gone, period, and no one can help that. The socialist mayor could not help, he could not help the socialist president of the county assembly, he could not help the socialist president of the regional council, he could not help himself János Kóka Minister of Transport SZDSZ, he could not help the free Democratic Environment Minister Gábor Fodor of Gyöngyös. And finally, as the years ran by 2009, it turned out that Bajnai Gordon himself couldn't help, the then Prime Minister. He made another soft promise when he visited Pearl, and then that was it. And what was the sequel? Because there's a sequel to the story. I'll tell you about that in the second part. That's not gonna be a story. Thank you very much. [[19.10]]
u2021-03-16-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-meeting speech. It's called the 4th. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-16-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent months, I have asked you several times to go and talk to the Hungarian people. Today I have a message for you from four citizens: a graduate student, a seven-year-old family father, a nurse and a disabled woman. Their voice is here today, in the Hungarian Parliament. A graduate student tells you that students and teachers are on the verge of total mental burnout. For almost a year, education has been in digital education, and there is such a degree of uncertainty throughout the education system, not to mention the way it is graduated, that they do not know where their heads are. They're just thinking, they're trying to learn, but as we know your systems, from one moment to the next, the study results are deteriorating, and the years to come that will determine their future, their further education is at stake. Shame on you! This is how they destroy a generation that will build this country years from now. He's a family man with seven children. He has a decent profession, a cover, but the economic crisis has spilled over into the construction industry, and he cannot find a job to raise his children with honor. Patience and waiting don't bring lunch to the family table, so children can't be taught. He made the decision that I think is the most difficult decision of a father, a family father, to go abroad and try his luck and get a job there. He left his family at home, but not for long; he said if he went out and it worked, his family would be fine. Seven children. These seven children may be out there starting a family. Shame on you! This is how they drive away professionals, expel families, and prevent them from prospering in their homeland. A nurse. A year on the front line. They've been among the most vulnerable for a few months. They're waiting for nothing but appreciation. What do you give them? A contract that needs to be signed, or they'll lose their employment. This nurse signed it. He signed it out of professionalism. There's a small number of people with redeployments. There's a lot of work to be done. At least it's been paid, that's what he told me. Now they're here in uncertainty because they don't know that you're gonna have your overwork money at the end of this quarter. You can't keep your family for applause and thanks, you can't pay your rent. Shame on you! Is that how you estimate health care workers? A woman with a disability pension. Your monthly income is HUF 30 470. He has 30 470 forints to fix the food, he has to pay the bills, he has to pay the medicines, not to mention that the public medicine is already gone. 30,470. That'll get you shopping once. What's left? Desperation, hope, struggle to survive every single day. Shame on you! This is how hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are cast into cruel fate. This is Hungary today, this is your governance. After 2022, together, we will create prosperity and freedom for all Hungarians, because it is due to everyone. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-03-16-217	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr János Bencsik, an independent Member, spoke with the title "The entire political elite failed in an epidemic management." You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us declare that all political parties and all political elites have failed to deal with the epidemic. Fidesz's domestic opposition, the Mi Hazank Movement, which was able to hold hundreds of protests at the peak of the epidemic in downtown Budapest, has failed, demonstrating a shocking degree of irresponsibleness. But Parliament's opposition parties also failed, which communicate in a messy manner in the context of the epidemic, depending on what the government says. If the government says that it should be closed, then, of course, they demand an early opening, and if the government is just saying that it will start opening the country gradually, they will immediately demand closure and tightening up. It should be decided, fellow Members, which is which, because both cannot do it at the same time. If we rightly expect the government to be consistent, then it would be good to be consistent in this, and to require either opening or closing or tightening up or relaxing. Then it will always come to the text that Viktor Orbán is conducting a human experiment. I don't agree with you either. I don't think Viktor Orbán is conducting a human experiment. Do you know what you're doing? Viktor Orbán and the Hungarian government show signs of despair and collapse. The fact is that it is, of course, possible to point the finger at the opposition, and there is a reason why, it is possible to criticise it, but the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that you have been ruling for 11 years. We really didn't expect much from you. We knew they were gonna steal, and we knew the vaccine would be impenetrable. The only thing I've ever expected from you, for my part, is how you do it, how you conduct it normally, but you're clearly incapable of doing it. Because what happens instead? What's happening is that the GPs have no idea who to kill, what order or when to kill, and they're not getting any help from you. There are hundreds of thousands of vaccines in the stock that can be used to inoculate people who have volunteered for vaccination, but this afternoon the Prime Minister said that this can't be done, because it's been set aside for the second re-vaccination, even though the operational tribe said weeks ago that these vaccines can be given freely, since you are expecting half a million Chinese vaccines only this week. What are you waiting for, ladies and gentlemen of the government? The third, and perhaps the worst of them all, is the rennet points. You have created epidemiological focal points in Hungary instead of injection points. Take a look at the recordings showing the conditions under which our countrymen have had to wait for vaccination in the past few days. I just want to show you two as an illustration. [[The congressman shows up two A4 prints.]] People who tread each other's feet, a few inches apart, are waiting in long rows. Some arrived with a camping chair today.
u2021-03-16-219	Congressman, you didn't announce the illustration.
u2021-03-16-220	This was meant to be an illustration!
u2021-03-16-221	I have to warn you. He didn't call it in.
u2021-03-16-222	It's not an illustration, Mr. President, it's real.
u2021-03-16-223	Congressman, please don't argue. I don't want to take the floor from you. Go on.
u2021-03-16-224	That's the sad reality. Orbán promised that half a million people could be vaccinated in one weekend. Now, out of half a million, I've managed to get 27,000 people under the same conditions as I just showed you. Is that normal, fellow Members? I think it's abnormal. What's there to fix? I was amazed to hear the Minister of State for Government today speaking within the walls of this house that the Hungarian government must also fight the opposition in addition to the virus. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, there is only one thing you should do: organize vaccinations in such a way that our countrymen do not have to go to vaccination in such circumstances. That's the one thing they should be dealing with, and that's the one thing they should be dealing with. But you're not doing that. You're working on something completely different. Otherwise, if you still have time to organise a normal vaccination, you might consider the advice of experts, including those of the Civil Response Experts, which says that you should consider that educators should not be pre-empted in the order of vaccination. They are those who meet not only potentially many people, there are many professions that involve many contacts, but who, if they fall out of the education system, have to stay at home because of school closures and class closures. The second point of the Civil Reply is to bring active young and middle-aged people, if not to the top of the list, but at least to the middle field, because at present, the new mutant viruses are not only dangerous to our elderly countrymen, but, in the first place, to active young and middle-aged workers who are equally at risk, who are in a mass hospital, and because they are doing much more contact work than our retired countrymen in general, they are in much greater danger. In closing, I would like to quote Viktor Orbán, who said in the afternoon between the walls of this house that the opposition should account for the lives of all the people who are being talked off by the opposition. To that, I would just like to add that you, my fellow Members of the Government...
u2021-03-16-225	Thank you, Congressman.
u2021-03-16-226	... to be accounted for by those people...
u2021-03-16-227	I'm so sorry...
u2021-03-16-228	... whowanted to get you vaccinated, but because of your misfortunes, they couldn't. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[19.20]]
u2021-03-16-229	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Anett Bősz, DK Group asked for a speech with the title "Erzsébet Camps are often unavailable for autistic children." You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-230	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For the second time this year, the Szikra Talent Association collects for the summer camping of children living in and around Érden with autism spectrum disorder. Last year, 40 affidavits were able to camp in Érden and the surrounding area. There was a horse, dog business, they went to a museum, they drew, they painted together. There was a mother who said that her child would definitely not get on the horse, and she only believed that it happened when she saw a photograph of her own child. Autists are often told, honourable Members, that they are playing with angels. They're a separate world. For them, it can be terrifying whether it's a louder noise or a public conversation of total strangers on the street, they sense the world differently, but they need the same thing as any of us here, in this world: understanding, empathy, and attention. It's hard for these kids. Mostly I am talking about autistic children who can be educated in an integrated way, so they can often go to school with their sound peers, but at the same time they encounter a number of obstacles that, if they were allowed by the sufficient nature of medical pedagogical services, they should not be confronted with. I also consider that Elizabeth camps are often unattainable to them, simply because of a lack of capacity and resources, and I do not think that there is some kind of bad intention that we will only find dozens of such children in and around Érden. In order to be able to go through classes with fellow students, he often relies on the attention and extra work of the teachers around them, not on what medical pedagogical and pedagogical services can enable them to do. The service and institutional service are simply dwarfed by the number of children and families facing autism spectrum disorder in this country. The situation of children with autism spectrum disorder has become even more difficult during quarantine. In many cases, improvements that are available to them are lost by years of work being wasted. I think that is what we have been talking about here before this House in the form of an immediate question, in the form of a speech. I am aware that we have a lot of things released here as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, but we need to know that the third wave will end, and today it is very difficult to believe, but there will also be summer vacations, summer camps. So why I am bringing this subject here, it is not to talk about problems in the first place, but the success story that led the Szikra Talent Society Érden, for example, to the fact that last year they could camp 40 children on their own and from private donations, now they dreamed even more, this year they wanted to camp 60 children. I have to say, the inadequacy of supply systems has led to an increasing number of children and more parents in their field of view. Now it's beyond what Spark Talent Care does in and around Érden. However, I think it is very gratifying that, while I am concerned, I am proud to know mothers who are doing more not only for their own children, but also for the children of others, in order to enable these children to go to school as smoothly as possible, to receive, as far as possible, improvements that are not possible in their schools, or within limited limits. I think that many of the services originally provided by the State or central service can be replaced by the Szikra Talent Provider, which they are proud of. I also think that in a next speech we will be forced to talk about how we will make up for the inadequacy of supply systems. However, it cannot be denied, and I would like to conclude with this speech today, that I believe that these are the first steps that are now being taken in a bottom-up way for children with autism spectrum disorder. And I'm really grateful to this team that they've accepted me, and I can be a part of that success story, because let's not forget that it's a local success story, when children who are otherwise excluded from the Elizabeth Camps have had summer experiences last summer and can get rich this summer, with which they are also healthy partners. I wish them all the best this summer. I am very confident that we will be able to gather the necessary funds for another 20 children, and I really think we will all be happier if this camp happens again. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from DK and the independents.]]
u2021-03-16-231	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Varga, DK Group, asked for a speech:, Enough of the internal business in Debrecen! It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It's a lot of dinner time, so let me get you a prescription, let me put it this way. I'm gonna give you a little bit of an appetite. The recipe. Take an investment, it's good if it's state or municipal, preferably a million, a hundred million, but it's even better if it's a billionaire, whatever it is, just good fat! This may be, we know very well, according to the recipe, nuclear power plant, railway, bridge, or even the construction of a small playground or kindergarten. Anyway, you just have to end up saying that it was built with public money, but it was built for the people. In Debrecen, this recipe will now be about a kindergarten. Make the recipe a buddy, mate, oligarch, stuntman who's seen a man who's ever built a similar investment. It's okay for the chosen lucky one not only to have a picture, but also a company. If it's okay, it's okay, I'd remember in parentheses, we've seen it before, but make one quick, because it's essential to a good recipe and ingredients. Then we'll put in a tender for the investment, where your lucky selected company will, of course, start. If he's smart, and maybe he's got good information, and why wouldn't he be, then of course, his proposal will be the ideal one, maybe the winner, and why wouldn't he be, you know, they want him, he's the buddy, he's the oligarch. It is an elegant solution, if, of course, the tender of the company he submitted is the cheapest by accident. Then you can declare your buddy's company a winner without any particular magic. If by chance it is not, then there is no such problem, then there must be some hocus pocus for the expected outcome, but it can be solved, we can see it very well. Otherwise, it usually goes smoothly in Debrecen, the market is relatively small, everyone knows everyone, and slowly everyone knows what to do. In many cases, for example, companies that do not have the necessary political preferences will not even start their procurement in Debrecen. We know that, that little orange preference. When this has happened, if possible, let us announce a winner in solemn terms, and announce what is built on public money by the naturally best candidate selected for public procurement. Of course, we know this very well, otherwise, this recipe is a small nuance, and the price of the investment won will be able to be used up and flogged along the way, which is why the Fidesz colleagues are very familiar with the system of so-called replacement work, where you can press the tip of the pencil by 10-20 percent, or even more. This, I must add, is a matter of stomach and appetite. Debrecen, for example, was familiar with the investment in tram 2, when the investment was delayed for many years, and then it became much more expensive because of the replacement work than the originally won tender amount, but this is another story. Do I look familiar to you, by the way, when I'm talking? It must be, at least on the pro-government side in any way, this is how the Fidesz system's perfect public money pump works everywhere. Debrecen is probably no exception, nor is it surprising. I don't have to say, of course, that what we're talking about is that the CEO of this winning project is also on the city-funded soccer team's payroll for Debrecen, and, of course, he pockets millions of forints a month as the head of an NB II team, because he's the sports director. [[19.30]] We are talking about the football team, by the way, and the important person we are talking about here, who has had a lot of interesting and nerve-cracking news in recent months, which has now been bought by the association that Lajos Kósa has grinned, and the price of which is otherwise deeply secret. Despite all this, not only does Lajos Kósa, current president of the association, Member of Parliament, Fidesz's second man hide how much he got to the football team, but also the mayor of the city of Debrecen, even though Debrecen was a quarter owner of this team. And it is of particular interest that the city of Debrecen gave HUF 39 million to Lajos Kósa's associations to buy the shares of the company operating the team. I would like to send a message to the current and former mayor of Debrecen, Lajos Kósa, here, of course, you can be outraged, you can play the Gyurcsányist, you can sew, but you've had enough of the interior fidesz business in Debrecen! The public money pump will also be liquidated in Debrecen in 2022 at the latest. Thank you very much. [[Anett and Laszlo Hajdu applaud.]]
u2021-03-16-233	Thank you. Dear Parliament, He applied for a post-meeting speech, but I do not see Mr Adam Steinmetz in the Chamber. I think that the Member has not indicated his absence, but he will be able to give this speech at a next time. Mr Szilárd Németh, Minister of State, Fidesz Group, has now applied for a speech after the agenda, and is 100 years old with the title of the Hungarian Birkózó Association. Mr President, Mr President, you would like to speak from the speaker's stand. You have the floor.
u2021-03-16-234	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Hungarian and International Wrestling Family! We Hungarians are particularly interested in sport, not only in the most successful part of our culture, but also in education and defence. It presents ideals and heroes to follow to the growing young generations, and it unites and forces all Hungarians to stick together. Sport shows the meaning of sacrifice, endurance, and hard struggle. And sportsmanship is nothing more than creating a chance and honoring an opponent. Within Hungarian sports, wrestling is of outstanding importance, not only because of its ancient and heroic character, but also because of its effectiveness. Our wrestlers stand in the fourth place of the Hungarian Olympic forever ranking 19 gold, 16 silver and 19 bronze medals. Dear Parliament, Our first Olympic champion was Richard Weisz at the London Olympics in 1908. István Kozma could listen to the Hungarian anthem at the top of the podium in Tokyo and Mexico City, while Csaba Hegedüs won Hungary's century Olympic gold medal at the 1972 Munich Olympic Olympics. And our two Olympic champions, Imre Polyák and János Varga, also won the title of national athlete. A total of 129 Hungarian wrestlers won 429 medals for the Hungarian nation in world competitions over a century. Thanks to champions, training partners, masters, helpers, doctors, dieticians, psychologists, gymnasts, the Hungarian judiciary and Hungarian fans alike. The Association of Hungarian Birkózók was founded on 16 March 1921 in Budapest, in the 10th Aradi utca, in the hall of the Röser school. This happened almost at the same time as the founding of the International Wrestling Federation, which I wish you a happy anniversary birthday from here. Here I thank President Nenad Lalovity for the outstanding and successful work he is doing at the head of the UWW for our sport, and we also thank him for giving all the professional support and opportunity to the Hungarian wrestling family. And we will help you as a reliable and strong ally, and we will support Mr. President and his team. Hungarian wrestling has been greatly strengthened in sports diplomacy and the Olympic movement. My personal thanks to President Paul Schmitt, President Krisztián Kulcsár MOB and Vice-President Péter Bacsa. Dear fellow Members, Let us not forget that in 2013 the National Assembly successfully stood up to hold the Olympic programme of wrestling in protest against the wrong and unacceptable decision of the IOC, the International Olympic Committee. Thank you for this. The Hungarian government led by Viktor Orbán sees sport as a national cause and a strategic sector, which is why we have received all the financial and moral support to build a new, bright future for the Hungarian wrestling family, feeding on our glorious past. Wrestling halls are being built all over the country; associations and departments receive unprecedented operating and development support; the Csepel Hall of the Academy has been built; we organize the major world competitions; it is enough to think only of the 2018 World Championships called the best of all time in Budapest or of the European Olympic Qualification Tournament starting the day after tomorrow. Thank you to the government, and we will serve the nation with this generous support. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the work of the founders, in 1928 after London, we were again able to celebrate a five-ring gold medal in Amsterdam in the person of the first Szekler Olympic Champion, Lajos Keresztes, who, by the way, was also the explorer and master of Kozma Tiny. Our Olympic champions deserve to be named as a sign of our respect and appreciation for them: Márton Lőrincz, Ödön Zombori, Károly Kárpáti, Gyula Bóbis, Imre Hódos, Miklós Szilvásy, Ferenc Kocsis, Norbert Növényi, András Sike, Attila Repka, Péter Farkas, István Majoros. The 100-year-old Hungarian Wrestling Association is doing everything possible to continue, which is why we have created the Kozma István Hungarian Wrestling Academy as a token of future success, where a comfortable chair in the champions' box is looking forward to the future 20th Olympic gold holder, and that is why we have announced the Carpathian-Hungarian athletes under the common flag in a single language: together with our Hungarian wrestling-smacking programme. An outstanding example of this is the construction of the Hungariankanizsai of the Vojvodina Birkóság Academy. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear fellow Members, I say goodbye in Pablo Casals' words, and I wish that the sequel should be something that the master has set out, to build our future with respect for our past: - Take great care of the gift. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Don't distort or squander what you have. Keep working, keep working and feeding the talent. Go, Hungarian wrestlers! [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz applauds.]]
u2021-03-16-235	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that, following the general debate on the proposal for the Slachta Margit National Social Policy Institute, the deadline for the submission of amendments was announced on Thursday at 16 hours, according to the scenario. The resolution house rule is 40. § (1) allows the submission of amendments to be made this week at 4 p.m. on Friday. Thank you for your attention and cooperation. Dear Parliament, Parliament will resume its work at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
