u2021-03-01-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 4th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Gergely Arató will be in charge of the meeting to assist me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, On the tenth anniversary of the establishment of democratic national security services, in 2000, the government's idea of celebrating the day of civil national security services on 1 March each year was formulated. In the spring of 2001, the National Assembly passed the Act on the Day of Holiday, which was also confirmed in 2015 by the law on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. On March 1, 1990, it was a remarkable day in the history of Hungarian national security, when the Information Office and the National Security Service started operating as new intelligence and counterintelligence agencies. This has been a significant development at the time of the change of regime, as the establishment of a democratic constitutional system has created the opportunity for national security services to be established in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. At that time, in 1990, only a transitional law and regulation regulated the status and basic tasks of certain newly created national security services, as well as the authorisation of special secret service tools and methods that could be used by the services. However, the most important thing was that clear legal frameworks were created to ensure the legitimate functioning of the services. It has been laid down as a basic principle that measures which result in restrictions on personal freedom should not be applied. Five years later, in 1995, a long preparatory process resulted in the adoption of a law on national security services, which, in international comparison, regulated the system of tasks, status, secret information collection rules and the principles of national security activity and parliamentary control. Ladies and gentlemen, National security services, as in all democratic rule of law, play a prominent role in guaranteeing the security of the state and its citizens in Hungary. However, they have a significant role to play in protecting the country's values and enforcing its interests. This day is a good time to jointly draw attention to all of this. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda, from 12:15 to 13:45 a.m. for questions, and from approximately 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for immediate questions and answers, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Mr Bence Tordai, from the Group of Dialogue, spoke before the agenda, with a title on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, It's not a pre-scheduled speech, it's an indictment. I accuse the Orbán government of the inevitable deaths of thousands of Hungarians. I accuse the Orbán government in the name of tens of thousands of Hungarian people who mourn. I accuse the Orbán government of hundreds of thousands of lost Hungarian jobs, and accuse it of millions of people who are now deprived, suffering difficulties, in the name of all the workers and unemployed, small pensioners and families with children who are not helped by this government. I'm accusing the Orbán government of the failure to control the epidemic. Orbán said that we measure the success of defence in human lives; well, we also measure the failure of defence in human lives. And then he said six months later, when he had failed in human lives to measure the success of defence in jobs; well, I'll tell you that this government also failed in the field of jobs. I am therefore accusing the Government of Viktor Orbán of the chaos that we are seeing most about the vaccination plan and its implementation, the vaccination plan that is completely unprofessional, has been hidden for months, and which cannot be implemented now. After all, young, healthy people 20-30 years of age who are not eligible for vaccination because of their work have already been vaccinated, and our elderly citizens in their 80s and 90s still have not obtained the vaccine. I am accusing the Orbán government of putting political considerations ahead of professional considerations, primarily because what we are now seeing is that 1.8 million safe Moderna vaccines coming from the West are not being held while they can, just so they can brag about the untested, uncertain vaccine. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Unreal!]] With vaccines coming from the east. I accuse the Orbán government of the delay, the incompetence, the incompetence we saw in particular in the second wave that Viktor Orbán had no knowledge, strength, courage to take the necessary measures against the epidemic. For example, on 7 July Gergely Christmas ordered measures to protect against the second wave, Viktor Orbán waited practically until October. And the best impression of this inertia is that there are more than 1.5 million vaccines in the country and less than 700,000 people have been vaccinated. I'm accusing the Orbán government of that big talk, bragging, lying that they claim to be able to inoculate half a million people every day if there's a vaccine. There's a vaccine, and they can't. Orbán also said that everyone who gets sick will be cured. 15,000 people died, and at least 5,000 more are responsible for the direct or indirect death of this government. I accuse the Orbán government of doing nothing, because last summer, they spent time adriading, yachting, Sey-Chelle insulation and slumbering, while the municipalities were prepared to defend themselves against the epidemic. I charge the Orbán government with laziness and lack of perseverance, because they have released the testing, there are only a minimum number of them, they have released contact research, the Hungarian government has performed ridiculously in this area. And I accuse the Orbán government of being insensitive, of course. After all, they spend ridiculous amounts of wage support, they did not extend the period of unemployment benefit, they did not increase the amount, they did not introduce the basic income for crisis management, which would have been feasible out of potom 1200 billion, while Hungary was in debt of HUF 6000 billion. And I also accuse you of being selfish and grooming people, and while they do not save Hungarian small entrepreneurs and Hungarian jobs, there are hundreds of billions of people to stuff their friends, whether they spend Lőrince Mészáros on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line or 200 billion forints on the Kisfaludy programme for half the applicants, who are not all Fidesz Oligarchs and Fidesz municipalities. [[11.10]] It is clear that the Orbán government is guilty of all charges, and the sentence will be pronounced by Hungarian citizens in the spring of 2022 before the judgment seat of history. [[Dr. Pál Völner: So be it. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-01-2	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You accused me here, and I believe that the Hungarian left has more to defend, and the Hungarian opposition has more. If you look around the world, you will experience few places to decide, not on the basis of the country's interests, but on the basis of their own political interests, during the period of the coronal virus epidemic. This is what the Hungarian opposition is like. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Sure!]] You can't find another opposition, you can't find another left that would tell a sitting parliament abroad that it doesn't meet. The Hungarian left is like this. It is difficult to find representatives around the world who did not vote against the government during the first wave either to prolong the emergency so that the government could take action, and last time they did not vote here in Parliament to give the government permission to take rapid action. What were you talking about today? I'm talking about moving faster. And the last time you voted that the government could move faster, did you vote yes or no? You voted against, honourable Member. [[Bence Tordai shakes his head. Dániel Z. Carpathian: That is not what the vote was about, my friend!]] You have listed here how important it is to move quickly, and you have done nothing to enable the Hungarian government to do so. [[Bence of Turda: That is not what we voted on!]] Let's compare it, Your Honour. Hungary established the operational tribe 33 days before the first registered infected. Before the outbreak, before the coronal virus set foot in our country, knownly, 33 days before that, we had established the operational tribe responsible for the defense. The emergency was not ordered thanks to you, but despite your vote, on the 7th day following the registration of the first infected. You think it's slow. In Germany on the 49th day, in France on the 58th day, in England on the 49th day. What do you say to these countries, honourable Member, if you say here that you should have acted faster? Schools were converted to digital working order on the 12th day compared to the first infected. In Italy on day 34, in Germany on day 49, in France on day 52, honourable Member, and may I continue. The closure of the various cultural institutions took place in Hungary on the 13th day compared to the first registered infected, in Spain on the 44th day, in France on the 54th day, in Germany on the 55th day. On the 13th day in Hungary, because this government had a mandate to act quickly, which you did not give. None of the left-wing Members provided this either at the time or in the last vote, but only after that they asked for speed, while Hungary did move faster than a very significant state. The appropriation for health protection against the epidemic is open from above, and we are well above the thousand billion forints. Hungary was among the three countries with the earliest vaccination, honourable Member, started on 26 December. If you look at the current situation in each major country in the world, you see that Israel has a 54 percent vaccine rate, in England it is 29 percent, in the US it is 14.5 percent, while in the European Union it is not 5 percent average. However, the Hungarian result is already approaching 6 percent, thanks to the fact that we not only used vaccines from Brussels, but also looked for them from other places, which you are constantly attacking. If you were talking about having a historical responsibility for some politicians here, it is that you say that Hungary should not obtain vaccines from Russia or China and that it should not inoculate Hungarian people. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] That's gonna take longer for you to defend yourself against the epidemic, which means more diseases and more dead people. If there is some responsibility, honourable Member, but you in this Parliament have not given us the powers necessary for defence or for health decisions, but this is also your decision to take the road to political withdrawal of the epidemic, it will indeed be a responsibility! We also have great confidence, honourable Member, that this attitude in 22 is that, when there is great trouble, Hungarians have been able to join together several times in history, but this is unfortunately not the time of this epidemic, because the Hungarians were able to join together, but the Hungarian left-wing parties have been left out of it well, I am sure that they will also give an opinion on this. Honourable Congressman, This mandate has helped us to double the pay of doctors, and this mandate has helped us to obtain protective equipment in the order of 100 million, honourable Member. As far as effectiveness is concerned: in Hungary, as in almost all countries in the world, the number of deceased has unfortunately increased in the last year. However, Hungary is one of the countries where it grew in a smaller proportion than in most countries. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There are only seven countries in the EU where Hungary has grown in a smaller proportion and Luxembourg, Malta, France, Croatia, Slovakia, Austria Portugal, Sweden, Netherlands, Romania, Italy, England, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Slovenia, Poland, Belgium [[The president's ringing again.]] and in the case of Spain, we were able to defend them more effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-01-4	Thank you very much for your answer, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, In the middle of the third wave, I do not want to talk about epidemiological issues, vaccines or such; I do not have the professional qualifications to give my opinion on this. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Like Bence of Turdai!]] However, it is clear to everyone that there is currently an economic crisis in Hungary. It is also true that this economic crisis was not caused by the Orbán government, but by the fact that it is happening everywhere in the world. However, a serious problem is that the Orbán government in the European Union is almost uniquely providing very little help to those in trouble, almost the least. And this is because your ideology is that the market decides everything, your ideology is that people who are out of work don't have to be helped, your ideology is that when the state spends, it's wrong, and it's always good what the market dictates. It was a great pity to clean up the IMF for you from Hungary in order to apply a recipe that the IMF would consider to be yours in the current crisis management. In fact, logically, they do not deviate from what they have fought before; this is a neoliberal, pro-market crisis management, which is contrary to the interests of the Hungarian people, and it favours your economic moonyard. Let's start from the beginning. The fact is that this crisis has affected the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises sector badly, many of them are in a state of bankruptcy. Let us not talk about the fact that one of the stars of Hungarian management training and the Carpathian genius of economic performance, Lajos Kósa, can tell small and medium-sized enterprises, especially the restaurant industry, that people will be hungry in March too. We know very well that if a left-wing man had said that on the government, they would have protested against the epidemiological measures, that you would be able to say such impertinent things. That's not the problem. The problem that I can make out is an IX. district café stated that after 105 days 12 people received a fee of HUF 500,000 for 4 months. 500,000 forints. This per employee comes out to 10 thousand forints. A small and medium-sized enterprise in Hungary paying 10 thousand forints of taxes, giving work to Hungarian people, had to be closed because of the coronal virus epidemic. Now, who didn't have to close, fellow Members? Casinos! And why didn't the casinos have to close? Not because the former mayor of Borkai, who is famous for his travels to the Adriatic, has damaged the people of Győr in the Audi-telek exchange, the five casinos operated by Zoltán Rákosfalvy can open up, not because this profit goes to a place that is kind to you, despite the fact that this pub, to which 10 400 forints have been given, goes to a place that you do not like this difference! The thing is, for people who know that money goes to the right place, they just let them keep it open, and for others they don't. They can't explain otherwise, they can't make a sane argument about why casinos are open. I wrote about this to Muller Cecilia a week ago, and he didn't answer. In the same way people are indoors, according to every investigative article, they also manage to serve different drinks and meals in casinos. [[11.20]] Why are casinos open when the entire Hungarian catering and hotel industry has to be closed? Answer that. While a Hungarian entrepreneur receives HUF 10,400 for a waiter, cook or bar worker, how can a Hungarian entrepreneur allow Zoltán Rákosfalvy, who harmed Hungarian people with the exchange of Audi phones, to bring the profits home? That's what you have to answer about crisis management. The fact that public employees are not given money for the work they have worked for shows that there is only one thing that matters to you in this crisis management, so that your friends don't get hurt, not that the Hungarian people don't get hurt. If you are talking about a work-based society, how can it be that a social worker who receives HUF 178,000, the same amount as the guaranteed minimum wage, works in an elderly home or family support service, doesn't get paid for the extra work done, doesn't get the one-off HUF 500,000, and otherwise, if he gets coronal virus during his work and goes on sick leave, only 4 percent of them got the 100 percent allowance? You won't pay them, but you will pay Zoltán Rákosfalvy. The fact is that the casino closing is a symbol; the symbol that Zoltán Rákosfalvy matters to you more than the waiter to whom 10 400 HUF has been paid. [[Applause from DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-01-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Schanda wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I am pleased that you did not join the left-wing anti-vaccination choir, that at least you do not want to dissuade Hungarians from using the vaccine in order to protect their own lives and health. I'm glad you didn't join Gergely Christmas, Ferenc Gyurcsány's choir, and you don't doubt the Hungarian people. Honourable Congressman, Therefore, allow me to begin my speech by thanking all those who are otherwise involved in protection, health care workers, doctors, workers in the social care system, police officers, soldiers and everyone who contributes to protecting the health and life of Hungarian people. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you have said, and we have been talking about this in Parliament for a long time, this epidemic is threatening not only people's lives and health, but also their workplaces in Hungary. It is therefore a threat to the worldview, to the basic position that we consider important, that if there is work, then there is everything that Hungarian people want and can live from work. Therefore, you know exactly what the national civilian government is trying to do, unlike left-wing crisis management recipes, to help Hungarian people, Hungarian families, in such a way that we can protect their jobs. We sympathize with everyone who loses their job and we work to find a new job as soon as possible. We are working to protect as many jobs as possible. Honourable Congressman, This is, among other things, the economic re-launch action plan, where sectoral wage support has helped us to protect hospitality and the leisure sector by 115,000 jobs. Honourable Congressman, I ask you that if you agree that the workplace of Hungarian people must be protected, if you agree that it is necessary to help Hungarian businesses, you should not attack these programmes, but support these programmes. You know as well as I do that 98 percent of these funds have already been paid. You know as well as I do that it's false news that you're talking about. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's not true!]] You know very well, Your Honour. [[It's a noise from Jobbik's ranks.]] You know exactly, Congressman, but if you don't, you're gonna have to listen to me, and you know damn well that that café you talked about, for example, got exactly the support you asked for. [[Péter Ungár: They didn't pay that much!]] Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is a sad fact that if a given enterprise employs its employees for less than four hours, less than the minimum wage, then cynically they say that they pay the benefits from the tip in black. Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, fair businesses receive an average salary of HUF 100,000 per employee. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: It's not paid!]] Honourable Congressman, [[Dr. Pál Völner: Listen! Listen.]] Don't yell that it's not paid, I told you that 98 percent of the applications have already been paid. Moreover, honourable Member, it was just last week that we decided that this support could already be requested for the month of March. You can also claim this support, you can use the credit moratorium, and you can also use a lot of other measures, despite the fact that you and the entire left have done everything in your power to prevent the government from paying these subsidies, so that these subsidies will no longer be granted to Hungarian businesses and Hungarian working people. You have had the opportunity to support wage support, support the credit moratorium, support all the help that we can offer to Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. You don't live with that. You are interested in making it as difficult as possible for Hungarian businesses. Shame on you! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-01-8	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group asked:. The government did not deliberately order enough EU vaccines to continue the anti-EU campaign, thus endangering the lives of Hungarians? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-01-9	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I will address my words to Mr Secretary of State of Rétvár, because he has just given my fellow Member a long, but at least pointless reply, so let us give him a chance to explain himself, but he can do more than that, by the way. Klára Dobrev, a Member of the European Parliament of the Democratic Coalition, busted the Orbán government last week. In black and white, he has shown that your government has not called off the amount of vaccine that can be imported from Western Europe, which is due to our country, and that is risking the lives of a thousand people. There is neither an explanation nor an explanation for this sinful omission. The Orbán government is playing with the lives of Hungarians, and you have committed a crime worth killing. 15,000 deaths weren't enough, Mr. Secretary? ! Viktor Orbán's decision is the decision of the man who brought death. Viktor Orbán's decision is treason, Mr. Secretary of State. Viktor Orbán must resign immediately. What have you done? They yelled at the country that that ugly Brussels won't help, it won't give you enough vaccine. In fact, they lied specifically to the Hungarians' eyes. There are hundreds of thousands of moderna vaccines that could be brought to us. As a result of the confrontation with the given data, you finally acknowledged that you did not intentionally tie down one of the EU's vaccines for Hungary, Moderna. This was sinful irresponsible, as thousands of Hungarians could have been saved from disease and some of them from death. But you guys have been able to increase that. They justify that they did not bring the vaccine for the Hungarians, that the quantity that could have been brought to us was too expensive. How is that, Mr. Secretary? Stadium, VIP tunnel, Matolcsy has money for a gold statue, and Hungarians don't have it. Orbán said earlier that there should be no financial obstacle to the inoculation of Hungarians, money does not matter. And now it's too expensive? In addition, Moderna, recognised by a secure European Medicines Agency, is much cheaper than the one you have just campaigned for. How come there's no money for all of this? It's amazing what your government is doing, and thousands of Hungarians will die or suffer chronic complications because they didn't get the tested vaccine in time. It is now clear that the Hungarian people's health follows the power laundering, the state's business and the political voices, so that they can also use this to make use of it. [[11.30]] This is a despicable thing that has not been seen in history, and on top of that, they decided not to mention who was vaccinated with the vaccine on the final vaccination certificate. Another risky step is that tens of thousands of Hungarian workers passing along the Austrian border are uncertain that if Austria does not allow those who have not been vaccinated in Europe, they cannot enter the country. Poland has already done this, as you know, and has declared the Hungarian Prime Minister, who has been vaccinated with the Chinese vaccine, panicked. Or wasn't he vaccinated with it? Or does he have another justification when he wants to go to Warsaw? But I'm sure he'll sort it out for you somehow, that's what he's done. But what about the people outside the Buda Castle? This decision can practically close the borders from Hungarians at the same time as the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union is working on the adoption of a common vaccine passport. There may be no travel or work for the Hungarians, they may not go to the West, they will not allow those who cannot prove that they have the vaccine accepted there. This is called gambling with the potential of Hungarian people in Europe. The Orbán government is messing with the lives of the Hungarians, and Fidesz and the Christian Democrats support it here in Parliament without saying anything, while they see exactly and directly what they are risking. Or have you been tricked, Congresswoman and gentlemen? You didn't know there was a modern vaccination? Or have you been deceived that it is not important to have a general certificate of vaccination? [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Whoever's answering you now, think very carefully about what you're saying, but please don't forget one. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Are you threatening me? The president's ringing the bell.]] Apologize to the people. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2021-03-01-10	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor. [[Miklós Soltész turning to opposition representatives: Shame!]]
u2021-03-01-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If I were to answer your question briefly, I would say that there is no new one during the autumn day, the Gyurcsány family is lying. Because what is it about in this case? That you are asking for vaccines that would have been delivered in December, Congressman, in December. [[Interjection, if you have one.]] All this in a situation where the goal would be to get as many vaccines as possible. And this whole case you're talking about only draws attention to one thing: that something was really messed up in Brussels when ordering the vaccine, and that if you don't believe it, look at the most important numbers. On average, 4.7 percent of the population in the EU was vaccinated, and in the United States the contract was concluded three times as early as three months. The reason why we have a higher grafting rate is because we are getting vaccines from other places than EU central purchases. Luckily, the purchase is not in your hands, because there would already be hundreds of thousands less vaccine available in Hungary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And in May with millions (Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!) That also means more people would die. Over the years, we have become accustomed to the fact that the left-wing parties, with the Gyurcsány Party, are at the forefront of matters that are important to the country from time to time, but the ability to campaign against the only solution during the epidemic has surprised many of us even here. Because don't try to deny it, it's very clear what they're playing for, and in their weaker moments, they even blur out the master plan. They also say that if they undermine the confidence in vaccination, the Prime Minister will have to suffer the consequences, not as I put it, but as one of your main men, and this plan is as unscrupulous as it seems, and not just a plan, because this plan will be implemented in each of their political actions. The left has taken a great deal of action against vaccination. You want me to list the evidence? Yeah, while we're here, I'm gonna do it. It begins by attacking and calling into question the decisions and expertise of the licensing authorities. Your party has filed a petition against certain types of vaccine, against the administration and then banned it. They even went to the Attorney General on this case. They claim that counterfeit vaccines have been placed on the market while not only vaccines in general but also each consignment is tested. You're also lying that there's no documentation for the vaccines, while the general practitioners have already received it. They post on their Facebook page that GPs don't usually want Chinese vaccine, which is a lie. DK mayors are also involved in the amok run, sending letters to GPs about not using certain vaccines. And their so-called health politician is able to argue on live television that any vaccine is better than catching the virus. He's a health politician. That's it. [[Miklós Soltész and Dr. Pál Völner: DK! Miklós Soltész: Gyurcsány!]] Compared to this, the obstacles to decision-making and false news have been made in recent months, in fact, it is a little mishka, because they are now taking a step in depraved politics. And allow me to ask you three rhetorical questions about that. What else needs to happen so that they do not have a terrible hobby to hack into the lives of Hungarians from time to time? once with rubber bullets, now with anti-vaccination. How can they come to terms with knowing that human lives are being put at risk? And third of all, where is the limit of left-wing irresponsibleness at all? Is it even possible in Hungarian politics that when you have to choose between human life and power hopes on the left, for once in your life, you should not choose the latter? You're different. their skin is taken to the fair, but first they give their shoulders, so that if they can get the vaccine, in several cases they're in jail. What a duplicitous policy it is! What they are doing now will burn into the memory of the Hungarians as much as the autumn speech burned into it. They turn on their own country at a sharp moment, and they can't undo it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-12	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech on the subject of current issues. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Today is one of the darkest days of the health situation. The number of victims of a coronal virus epidemic exceeded 15,000 today. On the other hand, the most important deadline for the Act on Health Service Service was yesterday. The law on health services was also supported by opposition representatives, but there was no mention that the result of the law would be chaos and uncertainty. The bill was announced in October 2020 by entering into force in full in January 2021 and by informing stakeholders of the content of their new contract by 30 November 2020. However, the implementing regulation containing the detailed rules was only drawn up a few days before the deadline of 30 November, while keeping the entire health profession uncertain and the contracts were available to stakeholders last week. Let's see what happened last week. On-call fees could not be settled for months. The Hungarian Medical Chamber wrote a letter on 23 February, six days before the postponed introduction in connection with the service, in which it considered on-call fees to be an urgent question, since its original government regulation would have resulted in a loss of income in many places. The trauma and hand surgery department of the clinic in Debrecen almost ceased due to the disorder of the allowances and the fee supplements, since its employees refused to sign the new medical service. The problem was solved later, the clinic managed to settle with the department employees, but it was completely secret. But there was also a specific problem with general surgeons in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, obstetrics and gynecologist doctors, traumaologists and urologists in Szolnok, Zalaegerszeg, Szekszárd, Szeged. Three hundred of the doctors in Szeged reported that they did not wish to sign their new contract because of the problems with the allowances. Several places indicated that the facts contained in their medical service were incorrect, significantly less time spent on the staff than they had actually completed. The answer was that the IT program was wrong, so you can just sign it and then you can fix it later. This is the period of service on the basis of which the severance pay and the classification, i.e. the wages of the workers, are fixed. Dear Secretary of State, Would you sign a contract like this? I'm asking. If they put a piece of paper in front of you, will you sign it? Gentlemen, if 10 percent of medical personnel don't sign this contract, there will be fatal consequences for this case. [[11.40]] It is precisely the consequence of this chaos that many doctors do not wish to sign the new contract of employment for health services. The other major problem arises with the general practitioners. Now allow me to quote sentences from a general doctor's lecture, because it's very instructive. The GP in a 1500-person mixed practice is a GP. In the past 15 years, I have experienced many things as a general practitioner, but there is no better word for the last year than surreal. A flood of health problems has apparently not been dealt with by the government, and the lack of preparedness and regulation has been replaced by arrogance. I would like to note here that since I have been a general practitioner, quite a lot of health ministers have switched, and they all started saying that basic care needs to be strengthened. I believe that if it had been confirmed as many times as it has been said, it would be necessary to weaken the basic supply today. We monitor e-mails 24 hours, and we also do 10-20-30 people's vaccination logistics with a one-day deadline. At the moment, we are trying to track the daily work; five vaccines, five types of service, every week's changing patient list, almost untraceable vaccination protocol. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State Dömötör, I can see the correspondence, because I always get it, and the government agencies keep threatening GPs. I could illustrate the vaccination plan prepared by the Minister of the Interior through a surgical example: it is as if the patient's open abdomen were to start thinking about what instruments should be used for the operation. The general physician with an assistant will drown in vaccination and administration of a number of patients, along with daily patient traffic, as well as in organizing a vaccination course. Gentlemen, You guys are always at war, so now it's time to capitulate before you permanently destroy health care. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-03-01-14	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, who wishes to answer on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is weird to hear from a representative of a party about the destruction of health care here, when four hospitals were shut down during their administration, while our government, for example, is building a new super hospital in South Buda. It's strange to hear you say that when you've taken out 16,000 hospital beds while we're trying to build the most modern capacity in the new hospitals. It is strange to hear from you, who have been the only people in Hungarian history since human memory who have reduced the salaries of Hungarian doctors and Hungarian nurses, because you have been the only government since human memory in 2008-2009 who took money from all Hungarian doctors and took money from all Hungarian nurses. In addition, 6,000 people were even released due to the mass closure of hospitals and the mass construction of beds. What did they do next? Visits and hospital expenses have been introduced. So they would have set up a system to take hospital daily allowances from patients who experience coronal viral signs on themselves and are therefore hospitalized. If any patient goes to the doctor, they will receive a visitation fee, honourable Member, and all this has been done to doctors for a wage reduction. Doctors' wages were reduced, patients' financial burdens increased. After that, honourable Member, you say such words here in Parliament. If you're a left-wing congressman, I think it's better if you don't talk about the issue of health, because you're pulling out money. We do not say this, the OECD says, under your governance Hungary was the only country where public health expenditure per capita decreased in proportion to GDP. The only country! It has not decreased anywhere, it has increased everywhere, it has only decreased in Hungary, only when you were in the government, honourable Member. Since we govern, this is the seventh largest increase. You were the only reducers, we were able to make the seventh largest increase, thanks also to the fact that, if you compare the numbers of the last budget you have adopted and the number of budgets currently in force, you see that even without the additional cost of epidemiological protection, there is 900 billion forints more of the annual framework from which health can manage, honourable Member, this is the amount with which we have provided more. In the second half of his speech, he spoke about the general practitioners. How much have you spent on the budget you've accepted for general medical care? 79.3 billion forints. 79,3! How much are we going to translate against your 79.3 this year? 214.1 billion forints, honourable Member. Everyone can see what a left-wing government means 79 billion and what a right-wing government means 214 billion in GP night. Madam Member, that is the difference. With regard to the change of law and the rise in wages, you may not be able to give an example of where you know a country where during the epidemic, in order to better protect people's health and life, the government has doubled the wages of doctors working in health care. Can you say such a country, honourable Member? I don't think so. I don't think there are very many other countries where this kind of rise would have happened. This is accompanied by a wage increase in the legal relationship, which they received on 3 February from the national hospital director-general a briefing on the various hospitals [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] County and city hospitals. All data and information relating to the change of legal relationship were included here. The Chamber was also consulted. I would like to quote Gyula Kincses, President of the Chamber, who said on ATV that an active partnership with the National Hospital Directorate-General has been established, the Chamber has managed to achieve results, they have negotiated appropriate guarantees. That's not what we're saying. That's what Gyula Kincses said on ATV, honourable Member. What does this mean in the area of wages, honourable Member, how does the wages of health workers change? This year, as of 1 January, a starting doctor can earn no less than HUF 481 thousand as a gross basic wage, but this, if the wage increase program ends in 2023, will be HUF 687 thousand of the starting gross basic wage, on which additional wage elements can be added. A doctor who has worked for 20 years already has to earn over HUF 1 million, his basic salary is over HUF 1 million, but by 2023 it will be nearly HUF 1.5 million, and a doctor who has worked for 41 years at the end of his career already earns more than HUF 1 million 666,000, and by 2023, by the end of the wage increase programme, there will be a basic fee of HUF 2 million 380 thousand for doctors, honourable Member. This is what you are attacking, which you have never been able to approach, so that medical wages in Hungary rise to this extent. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-01-16	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a pre-meeting speech:. The Government will again choose German car manufacturers instead of Hungarian small businesses? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-17	Mr President, Dear House, In the case of vaccine, I think everything that was said during the day was important, and the one-time TV viewer, pardon, internet follower can decide for himself what the government's pathetic propaganda machine is enough for. The fact is that they are pursuing a two-bullet policy, not taking responsibility as men, trying to spread it out, and carrying on a pathetic death campaign, Mr. Secretary of State Retvári, where he is trying to compete with the number of people who have died in sweat statistics...
u2021-03-01-18	Now, if you'll be so kind as to get to the subject, Congressman. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-03-01-19	I thought that in the Hungarian Parliament, an opposition representative could still freely say what he thought about a question. That is what I think before the agenda on this issue [[Dr. János Fónagy: It's kind of sad if that's what you think. It's very sad.]] And I'm going to tell you that I find that vile death campaign to be an indigestion. [[Dr. János Fónagy: It's very sad if you think that!]] That's what this government is doing. I would also like to say that it is weak people who spread responsibility and do not take responsibility as men, you are weak people on the other side, and your two-bullet policy has led to the uncertain situation in the vaccine case that is pushing this country. But I would like to talk about how the national economy and Hungarian workers and workers are affected by what you are doing, to be more precise: they are not doing it. The governments before 2010 were very often criticised by us for providing a little too much unilateral support for multi-company companies, even if jobs are created, the situation is yes, I agree with Dömötör State Secretary, it was a little too much to have up to HUF 4.5 million per job. Then, after 2010, we were surprised that Fidesz-KDNP, who took a chemically pure neoliberal turn, was already supporting a job by 9.5 million instead of 4.5 million, and then, last year, we threw all the tools out of our hands, because we saw that while a very large volume of Hungarian companies from a foreign source, a thousand billion was also available to support Hungarian companies, it tends to pamper multinational companies with subsidies, one-sided subsidies, non-refundables, and the Hungarian entrepreneur has good credit and a microscopic wage support system for 5 percent of jobs in a measurable way. [[11.50]] What we see is that the IMF was sent home in vain, there was indeed a job for which 130 million forints were paid last year; there was a job that was given to multinationals as a subsidy, and 27 years of gross average wages were placed on the table after a single job. And what do you say to the Hungarian entrepreneur, who carries this country on his back in terms of contributions, employs two thirds of the employees? They'll tell them you'll get a loan if it's a good thing. This is the true, pure neoliberalism when they serve your true allies, multinationals and banks. The banks will not be paid in the Anti-CDC Fund either, you know that very well, because they can write it down from their taxes until the last forint. The Hungarian small entrepreneur is not, the employer of the Hungarian worker is not, and he may be saved from your amazing mistakes. But while they're pushing a thousand billion in size into the multinationals, Mr. Secretary of State has just told us that 214 billion are available to general practitioners. Now, this is your real fight, these differences in scale. For GPs, that's it, for your real allies, the multinationals and the banks, everything they're ordering from you. Meanwhile, there was still a source to keep the casinos open and, where appropriate, to support it, there was still a source for the 200 billionaire share of Budapest-Belgrád madness this year and the previous one. It's pretty amazing. Of this, thousands of Hungarian jobs could have been saved and preserved. And he says, Prime Minister, that he wants to create as much jobs as he does because of the epidemic. We're getting data that 97,000 have been shut down in one month. And you wouldn't dare talk about it, wrapped in a Bolshevik-type lie factory, and you wouldn't leave your own bubble of opinion, and you wouldn't answer that question. They refuse to come out of the bubble of opinion because you are weak people. By running a lie factory, they want to mobilize their own camp, keep it together, but in Hungary, the common majority laughs at you or feels sorry for you. It is very difficult to find weaker economic crisis management in Europe, especially at a time when resources are available. And what we see is that, yes, if there is work, there is everything, an old job-based society slogan has been renewed, but they forget the point: this requires a wage level from which you can stay in this country, you can make a living, not 27 percent VAT and not a terrible HUF, and it is not to compete with the Romanian and Bulgarian minimum wage. It's amazing that they're trying to turn Hungary into a poor house, but we're not gonna let that happen. They've got a little over a year left, and we're gonna clean up after you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-01-20	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor. [[Interviews from Jobbik: Only on the subject! It can't be a Gyurcsány!]]
u2021-03-01-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to a number of things, Mr. Group Leader. [[Interviews from Jobbik: Only on the subject!]] As regards the basic statement: it does not stand the test of reality, because if we look at it from the end of 2019, i.e. only this period, then small and medium-sized enterprises have received more than twice as much funding through individual aid schemes as large companies. [[Anita Kőrösi: Friends!]] And if we want to approach it from the help that Hungarian small businesses have received, I can tell you a number of things. Let us start with the wage support, which in itself helped hundreds of thousands of Hungarian businesses. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: 250.]] The hospitality and leisure sectors are not dominated by the multinationals, but by small businesses. The government also helps companies with tax reductions, there was a general tax reduction in July, and the sectors in difficulty also receive targeted tax reductions. Then we'll look at the credit moratorium. This will protect businesses for 15 months, which is the longest period in Europe. This alone helps half a million Hungarian businesses. To make further decisions: young people will be exempt from income tax, and this will also help small businesses to hire them. And to say one more thing: the works resulting from the renovation aid will primarily be carried out by Hungarian small businesses. Now I do not expect you to agree on every point in a parliamentary debate, but if you really have a problem with the support of the multinationals, then why did you join forces with Ferenc Gyurcsány? [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik.]] There the margins of Hungarian companies were reduced, and you referred to it. And about the Bolsheviks, so much so that you're a Bolshevik for us, a few weeks after the pact was signed with the post-communists. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Applause from the pro-government benches. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] You're kidding. And by the way, we are interested to hear them say that they feel the problems of Hungarians from week to week, also because they say that they know them well. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: What do you explain? You're nervous. Relax.]] Then from time to time the veil falls, and it turns out what they really think of Hungarians. Anyone who wants to know what Jobbik really thinks of Hungarians is just go to N1TV, which is perfectly suitable for blood pressure adjustment, two Jobbik-near tellers competed with each other and kicked the Hungarians with even feet. According to them, the Hungarians quote are stupid, jugglers and peasants. I quote once again, the kind who gets slapped by the landlord. That's what it said a few days ago. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] This also shows that Jobbik's policy is in fact no longer national, but more and more bricks are being built from the structure of class-fighter, far-left politics. And if you're saying this isn't a one-time thing, let's look at the history. Let's take a look. Scornful Hungarianism is not the exception in Jobbik, but the rule itself. They have been called servitude, functional illiterate youth; they have said that the Hungarians' votes can be bought with potatoes and noodles. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, you believe that!]] And again, I quote that they vote based on who gives them 3 forints, or 3 forints more. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: You practice!]] And the generation of our grandparents was described as trembling, obnoxious pensioners who are running sewage from their mouths. [[Peter James: And what did the Mayor of Szolnok say? Give it to me.]] Those are your words, that's what Jobbik thinks of Hungarians. I have to say, we heard such a devastating rating in the autumn speech overall, although their eye-shooting boss did not get involved in such long sentences, he simply described his own country with a word with a letter. One is worse than the other, but both prove it. [[Peter James: The Mayor of Szolnok...]] that the Jobbik and the Gyurcsány Party have completed their full analogy. This is your job, but one thing we will not leave out: if the Hungarians are called stupid, merchandising and peasants, then take the liberty of apologizing. If it takes time, we'll wait. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: You didn't have the strength to answer, did you? Peter James: Was that the theme? Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Long live! James Peter: You can go to the register, the reward comes!]]
u2021-03-01-22	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, Head of the Group, KDNP Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech on the rebooting of the National Consultation. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-03-01-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the debate here in Parliament, in the most beautiful workplace in the world, in a political environment, we all know that there are many policies, there are many party policy approaches, and we have heard this here, and we have also shown everything, but I think that there is only a sensible and sound policy, and this is a human-centred policy, when we can talk about people, those in charge of us, and we can protect them, and we can make decisions that will help them to thrive. I think there's only one sensible policy. Obviously, I understand party political battles, which, of course, has a place in this House, under appropriate and cultured circumstances, but in the midst of an emergency, in the midst of a crisis, in the midst of a pandemic, I think it would always be advisable to look for a common denominator and to rise above party political battles and to support the government in defence. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor before the agenda today because I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Hungarian Government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, has been continuously consulting people since 2010, asking their views and involving them in decisions before all important issues. This is the human-centred policy I think is what we need, not to get away from people, but to listen to their voices, to ask them about fate issues. This is also the current situation, as it is about restarting our lives, so it is important and important, as all was important, when the Hungarian government asked people about the subject of national consultation. Allow me to briefly look back on the period, the last nine national consultations that have been successfully completed. And we have every chance and every hope that this tenth will be a successful and successful consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, We asked people about pensions in December 2010 and then in 2011 we asked people about the new Fundamental Law. There are 920,000 people here who have given their opinions. [[12.00]] The third national consultation was the social consultation. Here, too, we have received very successful feedback on foreign exchange credit cases and other important issues. 1 143 308 Hungarian citizens gave their views. The fourth consultation was an economic consultation on minimum wage, public burdens, amending VAT rules and other issues of an economic nature. 674 176 of our compatriots gave their views. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2015, an unexpected situation occurred in Europe, the migration crisis, we all saw the harmful effects and dangers of this. We also asked the members of the Hungarian society how they saw immigration policy, how they saw the change in terrorism and its appearance in Europe. Here, 1 million 254,000 fellow citizens gave their views. Of course, there was also an opinion here on the border closure and on the European Union. The sixth question on the subject of the consultation is the attitude of our national independence versus Brussels, which is a time of national independence with a kind of restrictions, and this is what we can see today. The sixth such consultation was attended by 1 million 680,000 people, a huge number. The seventh consultation was about immigration, commonly known as the Soros plan. It has been the most successful national consultation of all time, and Hungarian citizens have unitedly lined up that they do not support the implementation of the Soros plan. 2,332,755 people gave their opinions. The eighth consultation on the protection of families was very important for strengthening families. One million 382 thousand people gave their opinions. We also asked people during the first wave of the epidemic, 1 million 682 thousand people gave their opinions, and now we are here, asking about the restarting of life will be successful and successful. It's very important that people feel that, they see that. I would like to ask everyone, regardless of party standing, to take advantage of this opportunity and to complete the consultation sheet. Finally, let me conclude by saying that unfortunately, of course, all the left-wings were subject to national consultations, and all of them were attacked. Last time they called it a clown thing. What I see is that the government consults, and the left is constantly insulted. I would ask you not to attack the consultation, but also to encourage your voters to fill in as many as possible, because we are talking about the lives and future of all of us. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Schanda wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Everything now depends on the vaccine, and the government's position is that restrictions can only be lifted gradually and responsibly, and we also ask people's opinion in an online national consultation. The fact is, Mr Group Leader, that we have been able to enter a new phase with the vaccination programme, and this will allow us to start a dialogue on the possibility of restarting. This, of course, also depends on the epidemiological situation, but the last months, last year, have demonstrated that the measures are effective, the measures that the majority of Hungarians support are in place. The consultation therefore helps, and we therefore expect everyone's opinion and support. Honourable Congressman, The whole country is naturally and rightly concerned about the pace and how to restart the economy, the country and life as the vaccination programme progresses. The consultation is a good opportunity for everyone to give their views on this, and the government will take this into account. Honourable Congressman, We know for a fact that the only way out of this epidemic is by vaccination. Only mass vaccination with effective vaccines can help to stop further waves of the virus. For this reason, the online consultation on opening takes place on the same internet site, the vaccineinfo.gov.hu website, where it can otherwise be registered for vaccination. So far, more than 425 thousand have been filled in, and we thank each filler for that. We also ask people about the rate of re-opening, the curfew after 8:00 p.m., the reopening of restaurants, hotels, sports facilities. Experts will, of course, decide when the reboot can begin. And in the context of the consultation, people decide how and how this can happen. The government is familiar with the responses to decide what measures to take, how new regulations will take place. Honourable Congressman, It is indeed a terrible situation, and it is quite outrageous that the left is constantly attacking the national consultation. We are not surprised because we know that the left, as always, ignores the opinion of the Hungarian people. Contrary to them, however, we would like to know the position of the Hungarian people on the most important issues relating to the re-launch, which is why we encourage everyone to participate in the consultation. We all know that everyone's opinion matters. Honourable Congressman, It is also important to have a few words about the fact that the left is anti-vaccination; it is anti-vaccination, because they are still hoping for political benefits. They fight vaccines, spread false news, and want to override health authorities, health professionals. Of course, as always, we have found out why the left is doing this. In fact, a left-wing strategist spoke himself out and exposed the left-wing tactics, saying, quote, that if people don't inoculate themselves, Orbán will be to blame. That's what he said in a foreign interview. The clear strategy of the left, therefore, is that they want to harm the government at all costs, even if it endangers the lives and health of the Hungarian people. This is why, in fact, the left does not have any constructive proposals. They didn't help during the first wave, they didn't help during the second wave, and now they don't want to help. They hate us more and desire power more than they love Hungarian people. Honourable Congressman, The left is irresponsible, their proposals are irresponsible, and I therefore ask you to support the government's action. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-26	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Böröcz, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the comments before the agenda, especially the Member of Bence Tordai and the Member of Mr László Varju, one wonders how so many deliberate slips and lies can be compressed into two to five minutes. Then I remembered that the lemonade that Feri had had must have been strong this morning, because they must have had a sun starter. Overall, what you are saying about vaccines and how you undermine the confidence in vaccines is simply outrageous. They deliberately lie and deliberately mislead the Hungarian population. But let's see what's going on right now, because it's a pandemic, it's been with us for a little over a year, and you can see that maybe even a year ago, no one would have thought that this would still be the main issue, and we need to talk about it today. Since then, thousands of our countrymen and millions of people in the world have been killed by this virus. After the autumn and winter second wave had claimed a great deal of human sacrifice in the world, one might at some point have thought that this might stabilize, and we might have gotten away with it, but it seems that the third wave has started since then. [[12.10]] It is clear from the example of Portugal that where they tried to relax, there was a catastrophic end to this, and the third wave is due to the introduction of mutant viruses, which are far more contagious than before. Thus, practically health care in neighbouring Slovakia collapsed a few miles away, but in the Czech Republic more than a thousand people died in a week, and in Romania the number of infected people increased by 25 percent in one week. But what is real about Hungary, because we have heard a lot here. You know exactly what you've been trying to lie about in the press for a day and a half about the fact that you can't draw 1.5 million pieces of Moderna vaccine right now. Gergely Christmas even posted the 1.5 million vaccine and then they gave it to her. As State Secretary Csaba Dömötör said, this 1.5 million vaccine could arrive in December. During this semester, the Government has committed each vaccine to contracts relating to the European Union which will be delivered within six months. Then let's see exactly what these are or what the exact number is. In total, 983,000 doses of vaccine have been sent from the EU to Hungary, and Hungary has committed 19 737 710 of Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and the other two that have not yet received the authorisation. So practically not a million out of 20 million have arrived so far, this is 4.98 percent of the total ordering stock. In addition to EU purchases, Hungary has a contract for 2 million Russian and 5 million Chinese vaccines, and there is enough of them for 122 800 people from Sputnik and 275,000 from the Chinese vaccine, and virtually 280,000 additional doses of Russian vaccine arrive this week. In other words, we are ahead of the European Union's counterparts, who did not order Chinese or Russian vaccines. Your politicians, Your Honourable Left, and your collaborators are constantly trying to undermine confidence in the Chinese and Russian vaccines, even though no trusted expert says that it's far better to have any vaccine than to be without a vaccine. The only way to prevent and eradicate this epidemic is obviously to strengthen the economy if this epidemic is to be dealt with as soon as possible. If there is no vaccine, if the vaccine is low, the longer it will take. By May, if everything is going as planned, 3.5 million vaccines will arrive in more than one EU country of similar size with more vaccines for 3.5 million people. That means we're going to be able to save tens of thousands of lives against the circumstantial lie you've been telling here for days. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-03-01-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to inform the House that five vaccines are now being vaccinated in Hungary: besides Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna and Sputnik vaccines, the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine is already available, all are licensed, and according to experts, all are safe. Based on yesterday's summaries, 677,000 Hungarians were vaccinated and a quarter of a million were given the second vaccine. The vaccination indicators will increase even more in the next few days because new shipments are coming in. We would like to express our appreciation to those involved in the vaccination program: general practitioners, hospital workers, nurses, government officials. It is a huge logistics operation, and they all have a hard job of making Hungary look better than the EU average in terms of vaccination. I'd like to tell you here that the government decree issued this weekend gives extra money to the GPs and assistants who put out on weekends. We thank you for your standing, and we thank those who have registered and are waiting patiently for your turn. In Hungary, by the way, 6.9 percent of citizens have been vaccinated, whereas the EU average is 4.7 percent. However, in the United States, this rate is 15 percent, in the UK 30 percent, and in Serbia 12 percent. It also shows that something has been very messed up in Brussels. This will have to be examined, but it already seems certain that, in addition to prices, the urgency factor has not been taken into account enough, so they could sign up months later than the United States, for example. We've gotten used to the fact that seven can't pass without the left starting another false campaign, so that's what's happening right now. The latest statement sounds to me like there's a million and a half vaccines out there that the government hasn't tied down on purpose. But let's see what's really going on. They are talking about vaccines that would have been delivered by December 2021, i.e. once again: December 2021. So the left is campaigning for vaccines that would arrive three quarters of a year from now if they even arrived on time, because our experience is that shipments previously contracted will not arrive on time. On the other hand, Gergely Christmas would kill at Christmas. I think it is even better to continue complaining on Facebook, not to leave the vaccination program to him, because if we followed what the left would suggest, Hungary would now have 700 thousand and 7 million fewer vaccines by May, and no one outside the left would want this in Hungary. Because we don't want to wait until December. Thousands of lives can be saved by relying not only on the vaccines provided by Brussels, but also on the fact that if the vaccination programme goes well, we can get our normal lives back as soon as possible. It won't depend on the government, so it's planned that everyone who's registered can have the vaccine by Easter. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-30	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-03-01-31	Dear Parliament, Erik Fülöp, independent; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Lánt László Keresztes, LMP; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Anett Bősz, DK; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Attila Mesterházy, MSZP; László Hajdu, DK; János Bencsik, independent; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; István Apáti, independent.
u2021-03-01-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:18 p.m., we'll begin questioning. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: When will the municipalities be compensated? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Kálló has the floor.
u2021-03-01-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The coronal virus epidemic was the greatest threat to human health and life. Although it is a secondary aspect, the virus has not spared anyone financially, whether it is about families, businesses or, in this case, local governments. There have been a lot of additional costs due to protection in the form of extra disinfection, social benefits and other expenses. However, while health workers have done their best to preserve the health of Hungarian people, you, the government, who was supposed to protect our financial security, have struck the authorities at the forefront of defence with a butcher's axe. With the withdrawal of the car tax alone, more than HUF 200 million was taken from the municipalities of my district, which is a huge cut in the smaller settlements. We are concerned that the municipalities must choose between voluntary tasks, what to spend or what not to spend: twigging or cleaning, road renovation or potholeing, technical tasks or the installation of parking lots. [[12.20]] Municipal leaders must choose from developments that affect the well-being and quality of life of Hungarian people, in which case they will make it worse because of your withdrawal. This is not helped by the local government support announced in December, as we can see that 13 of the 17 cities with county-supported rights have received Fidesz-related or Fidesz-related funds against the four opponents. Moreover, they can use these funds in a targeted way, not freely, as government leaders. Now, however, we are not only speaking and asking for what is due, but also the Constitutional Court. The board's decision of 19 February states that all municipalities over 25,000 municipalities and cities with county rights must be fully compensated by the government in a transparent manner, free of any policy. My question is: will you comply with the Constitutional Tribunal's decision, how, but when, in particular, will the municipalities be compensated? Thank you for the floor.
u2021-03-01-34	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-03-01-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Since opposition mayors came to power in a number of places, all we've heard in the last year and a half is crying. We got used to this before 2010, but it was an interesting time, and your new allies put the municipalities there to the point of removing HUF 1,400 billion from the municipalities and putting 3,500 powers on their shoulders. When we came to government in 2011, after these bad steps caused the local authorities to become indebted, we were forced to help them. We helped them by putting the debt consolidation in order, and we fixed the debt of HUF 1387 billion for Budapest, the municipality of 2078. In addition, because the economy has worked well over the last ten years, the economy has been fine, compared to HUF 443 billion in 2010, from which the then government supported the municipalities, they can manage from HUF 865 billion by 2021. I do not know why left-wing authorities, which you have led, do not realize that all settlements and all businesses are in trouble now, over the past year, but the support of local authorities has increased and assistance has increased. The only place they're suffering is business tax, because they can't do anything about the huge task they got a year and a half ago, and they can't do it. They're your allies, and now you're doing nothing but hush-hushing. [[Defiance from the opposition.]] They're doing nothing but corruption, doing nothing but beating around the bush, and they can't run the cities, they can't just cry. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-01-36	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask a question to the Minister without a wallet for families:. What does it mean that you and your team will examine the children who are about to be adopted individually? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-01-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, A recent interview with the Minister, in which she said: "My team will examine individually why these children cannot find an adoptive parent. Let me tell the Secretary of State some data. The number of adopted children registered on 31 December 2018 in Hungary is 1890, of which 541 with disabilities, 275 and 999 over 10 years of age under 3 years. I wanted to say this because today 90 percent of parents wishing to adopt in Hungary want to adopt children under three years old, and as you heard, out of the 1980 adopted children in 2018, 275 children were under three years old. We also know that adoption is increasingly difficult over the age of three, and that children over the age of 10 are almost not adopted in Hungary. Last year, in Parliament's debate, many of the opposition representatives here said what concerns we have about the amendment of the law. The order came out yesterday, and let me read you a sentence from this. In a parent seeking adoption alone, the designated guardianship office allows adoption if the Minister for Families has agreed to establish the suitability for adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'd like to ask you as a question, would you please explain to me what you mean by that, to examine why these children are not adopted? What team is Katalin Novak talking about? What does the investigation mean, how is it done? And, Mr. Secretary of State, you keep saying that the children are for the Hungarian families: who is Katalin Novak, how can he decide the fate of families? Who, Katalin Novak, can decide the fate of children, even if we know that this law will hinder adoption in Hungary? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-03-01-38	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-03-01-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to ask you not to spread rumors. In your question, and when you asked, you also quoted a sentence from the Minister's interview last week. Allow me to quote you exactly in your context. It is said that the 2019 was the first year in which more children were adopted due to the reduction of time limits than the number of children in the system, so my primary objective now is to minimise the number of children to be adopted and to examine individually with my team why they cannot find an adoptive parent. I would add that it would be in the best interest of all children to be raised in love by their biological parents, but unfortunately, it does not always succeed, but if it has been so, get there as soon as possible so that the child can be brought up to adoptive parents. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is in the interest of the children who are to be adopted to get them to parents as soon as possible. As you said, the government decree on this issue has been published. As has been the case so far, it will be decided by professionals that adopters are fit to adopt the child on the basis of their personality and circumstances; there is still the possibility of adoption before suitable singles. A declaration of consent will be made by the Minister without a wallet for families in cases of special appreciation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, We will continue to work in the future so that the children who are to be adopted can become a loving family as soon as possible, and in the process of adoption they will continue to be in the best interests of the child. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-01-40	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How does he get a vaccine, who doesn't have internet, but doesn't have electricity? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-01-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In addition to stealing the money there, you have only to do with the sport of shaking the Hungarian people to hell. Let's remember that tens of thousands of ventilators are dusting somewhere in the basement, cost hundreds of billions of dollars, and we know very well that half of them are more like Tamagochi than a ventilator, but let's just leave that, because it's just about money. However, it is a serious health issue that millions of vaccines have not been called off, while your scouts and raiders here and there make up for it with collected vaccines. And we can see what kind of vaccination book you're thinking. My dog has a more serious vaccination book than you would like to introduce to the Hungarian people. But let's talk about registration, because there are a lot of problems. Some people are registered, but they still haven't shown up in the registration list otherwise, they didn't get any feedback. I don't want to point, but here I am. Others complain that they are registered, but they are not registered. Some of their 86 - year - old fathers have not been vaccinated, even though they have complied with all the data, and they have done everything they need to do so. And we haven't talked about anyone else who doesn't have Internet, but doesn't have electricity in the apartment to register for what happens to them. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarians will fall from the possibility of vaccination, and in other cases the doctor will have the vaccine, because they simply cannot put it out, and they are desperate to call back and forth to see if they can persuade someone to do so. [[12.30]] Let's face it, your entire registration system is exactly the same as your dictatorship itself. It's wrong in its element, it's a fabrication. The question of dying has been over 14,000 patients, 4,000 The number of infected people identified is above - how much longer do they want to do this? When do you think you've had enough of the victims? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Enough of the death cases? Thank you very much.
u2021-03-01-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, To answer this question, the Prime Minister has entrusted Antal Rogán, the Chief of Staff of the Prime Minister, with responsibility and competence according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Csaba Dömötör will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, If the registration system were full of errors, I would not be able to tell you now that nearly 700,000 of our countrymen have already been vaccinated in Hungary. In our case, the graft rate is 6.9 percent, the EU average is 4.7 percent, which in itself contradicts your claim. Otherwise, more people would die if the Hungarians listened to your anti-vaccination campaign. As far as specific claims beyond accusations are concerned, everyone can register online, and the online registration system has continued to operate despite cyber attacks. All registrants receive feedback on the website: if they consent to contact, they will also receive interim information. If you do not consent to this contact, the authorities will only seek it if it is carried out on the basis of the vaccination plan. Before vaccination, many will be contacted by the health authority by post before they are contacted by the GP regarding the date and location of the vaccination. If you do not have access to the Internet, you can ask the local government or the government office for help, and also our retired countrymen over 60 have received the registration form by post. If someone didn't get this or lost it, they can claim a new one at the Hungarian Treasury. What I can tell you in summary is that even if you don't help with the vaccination program, you won't help the citizens involved, it would be enough not to spread false news. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-01-44	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. What does the government intend to do? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-01-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As you know, the Croatian Constitutional Court rejected seven Croatian banks' claims on foreign exchange loans on Wednesday. The established Supreme Court ruling found that the banks that had granted the loan had unfairly applied the exchange rate clause and had unilaterally changed interest rates, resulting in an increase in the repayments of the borrowers. Among the banks affected by the decision is Splitska banka owned by OTP Croatia and OTP. With this decision, the legal struggle for more than ten years seems to be over, where it can be said that the credit victims in Croatia and the European Union have won. This is also confirmed by the fact that the Croatian Government and the seven banks concerned, including OTP's interests, have reached an agreement that they will refrain from proceedings initiated in the Croatian court and the international arbitration court and will accept the decision of the Croatian Constitutional Court. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, We have a new situation. Croatian credit victims of the European Union can uniformly recover the unfairly charged amounts generated by banks from unilateral interest rate increases and exchange rate clauses, which, in the case of a closed loan, could amount to up to 50-80 percent of the amount paid. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, what the Hungarian Government intends to do to ensure that an EU citizen does not suffer worse than an OTP client in Hungary than an EU citizen is a Croatian OTP client. Do you intend to do whatever the Hungarian Government wishes to do to ensure that more than one million of our countrymen in foreign exchange loans, whose pockets the banks cheated out of the Hungarian currency loan, will get back the amounts due to them? Or the Government of Hungary remains on the road and, in line with the principles laid down in the EBRD pact, rather the banking system [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] will you stay with the Hungarian society? Thank you very much.
u2021-03-01-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'd rather ask the question. [[Antal Csárdi: No way. I'll ask the questions.]] What the government has done in the last ten years to bring out some two million Hungarian families that have been pushed out of crisis by you and your allies and to settle the fate of families and this serious social problem. First of all, in Hungary, all decisions were decided that they were legally examined even if they were constantly speaking, and the proposal of the Hungarian Government and the decision of the Parliament in 2014-15 were all based on the legal resolution of the Curia. The Curia took the relevant decision of the European Commission into account and thus defined the decisions that the government and Parliament had taken. Let me give you one example: 750 billion HUF has been credited to customers' accounts for overpayments due to unfair exchange rate and unilateral contractual modification. What you are talking about, what happened in Croatia, has already happened in Hungary, and all without mass lawsuits, thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, and even two million lawsuits in Hungary. And what you are saying to Croatia is very welcome, I would like to say that we do have to wait for a decision by the European Commission, and it is possible that these clients, who are about 70,000 people waiting for a refund, may have to sue the bank individually. You choose to have a hundred thousand lawsuits in Croatia after ten years, and we chose to settle for 2016 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the fate of foreign exchange credentials. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-01-48	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed the Minister of Human Resources Miklós Kásler, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-01-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have a simple question about the circus project near Podmaniczky Street. Have there been any substantive discussions with the residents of Terézváros and the municipalities on this matter? I have asked this question to the Minister and he has answered. On 25 February, he replied that, on the basis of preliminary negotiations, Gergely Christmas and Tamás Soproni assured Péter Fekete of their support in the light of the visual plans. There's only two problems with that. One is that Gergely Christmas did not see any visuals on this. The other thing is that Tamás Soproni said that he didn't say that. So that answer doesn't correspond to reality. The question remains who has been consulted on this issue, Honourable Secretary of State. And please spare me in your reply why we did not object to the government district that was built there in 2006. And spare us in your reply that we do not support the construction of something for the artists, because if I were to build it on the other side of the Hungária Boulevard in a brownfield project, then this could be built. The circus centre could be built in other places. Before 2018, Fidesz in Terézváros and even János Lázár himself wanted to build a park here. However, I hope that a secret tunnel will not be planned for Viktor Orbán for the circus centre wherever it is built. The question, Mr. Secretary of State: do you intend to consult with the residents of Terézváros, local governments, the local government surrounding the future park and the mayor? Thank you for your answer.
u2021-03-01-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go. [[12.40]]
u2021-03-01-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Apparently, the City Council, Mr. Mayor or left-wing city leaders do not like two things: if something is built in Budapest or if it is not built, because if it is built, why is it built, if it is not built, why is it not built? This is what we've been meeting here for almost a year and a half. [[László Varju intervenes.]] It's interesting to me that if Gergely Christmas doesn't see the visual design, then what does she see, if Tamás Soproni's colleague has already admitted that he saw it, so it exists. Of course it exists, Secretary of State Péter Fekete has made this available to both of you. Honourable Congressman, There are parts of Budapest that are unfortunately neglected, careless and empty. The government has suggestions for these developments, and would also provide resources to make Budapest more beautiful, more groomed, greener, more space for recreational functions; it is not a neglected, rather brown-fielded area, but a nice, well-groomed, cultured area where families can spend time together, whether in the circus or in the public park there. But you're always against it wherever, in any case. A very important part of this plan is to build a major public park, unlike what you don't want to talk about, you didn't want to talk about your question, that when you wanted to design many, many floors of office buildings here, you were silent, you didn't say a word. Now, when a public park and a circus center are built, they immediately, with all their might, protest against it. This shows, honourable Member, that it is not important for you to have a park there, because if Ferenc Gyurcsány builds a ten-storey office building in that area, it is good for you to create a public park with the support of the Fidesz-KDNP government, the government, the capital and the district, then it is not good for you, because there would be a circus building in the middle of it. It shows that it is not the development of the capital that matters to you, it is not the green areas that are important; it is only that they are able to get into conflict with the government, in every case, honourable Member. We'll see how this ends. The government would like to help Budapest, but this would require at least some minimal cooperation from the capital and district management. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-01-52	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Mihály Balla, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:, How does the Hungarian Village Programme continue in 2021? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-01-53	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The launch of the Magyar Választató program in 2019 brought new life to settlements of less than 5,000 inhabitants, and it is no coincidence that the population loss has stopped in many places in such a short period of time. In fact, there are 900 small settlements where the population has also started to grow since the start of the village CSOK. It is pleased that the funding framework will be up to HUF 270 billion this year. Renewal kindergartens, medical clinics, village houses, playgrounds, roads and sidewalks, community spaces, or just purchased motor vehicles and maintenance equipment are all used to make rural life more viable, strengthening local communities, and making small-town life more attractive for more and more young people around the country thanks to more than 12,000 supported projects and village CSOK. The Prime Minister also recently reported on the joyful news that village convenience stores also receive support to make these services available to people living in small villages. In my district, in West Nógrád, where support of HUF 3.5 billion has been received in two years, the image of our villages has been renewed, and the people living in our settlements can feel that they can count on the government in their development plans. Almost every village in the counties could have started, completed some important local development. My question is what additional opportunities can be expected for small settlements in 2021 in the framework of the "Hungarian Village" programme. At the same time, I thank you for the so far development aids, the Hungarian village program, which has kept the whole country in awe. I hope that for many years people in the countryside will enjoy these programs. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-01-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-03-01-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the one hand, in the current situation, it has a very important role to play in helping to restart the economy, as the hundreds of billions of forints mentioned by you help local entrepreneurs, local farmers and, of course, the community of local people. However, it also shows that if there are settlement leaders, and there are nearly three thousand who dare to take on the support of the village program, they can do great things, and not weep, like the leadership of the capital, Gergely Christmas in the lead, we must not cry as the leaders of the left-wing Budapest metropolitan districts, but we must do and act. I'm just saying in parentheses that the capital has 120-130 billion forints of money to invest in development, they're just crying, and they're not dealing with what they're supposed to do. But once again, the mayors of nearly 3,000 settlements, the families living there and the entrepreneurs living there have all done a lot in recent years, and they can do so again this year, because this year the Hungarian village is based on four pillars. Housing support, the so-called village CSOK, has a very high value, because many houses can be renewed, and indeed, as you said, it would not only decrease, but also increase the number of souls in many villages. This year, the village road fund to improve the condition of the back roads will be HUF 102 billion. It's a huge amount of money, we need it. There is 250 billion forints available for local quality of life programmes this year, and indeed there is a new element, and the fourth, and the support of the village small shops with HUF 45 billion will help the people living there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They work, they don't cry. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-01-56	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Minister, without a wallet for the families:, Do you support the purchase of housing for young people who are unable to benefit from family benefits by abolishing the propertyisation levy? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2021-03-01-57	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Support for those who are about to start a family is also, in my opinion, very important, but it should also not be forgotten about young people who, for some reason, are not yet able to make use of these funds, but still want to create their own home. A significant proportion of them do not have a financial background after several years of becoming an adult that would allow for the creation of a self-owned household, so that they remain in the Mamahotel or are forced to rent a very expensive apartment. And even if they get to the level of years of hard work to at least create self-esteem for a housing loan, but they still haven't found a partner of their lives, they can only acquire their own property through long-term debt. They also have to face the fact that, apart from some exceptions, they also have to pay 4 percent of the turnover in the form of a levy. My suggestion would be that those who are forced to be in debt for many years should not be burdened by an additional burden of hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions. Let us help these persons under the age of 35 who are forced to borrow by exempting them from the payment of the so-called returnable asset transfer levy linked to the purchased property. The current legislation also states that the 4 per cent levy will be reduced to 2 per cent over 1 billion real estate. I suppose there's not a lot of such sales, but it's illogical for me to think that they're helped by regulation, who have plenty of money anyway. That is why there is a part of my proposal that in such cases the current 2% levy is raised to 4%, which is important only because this would compensate for the loss of revenue from the state. I would ask the Secretary of State not to present in his reply the government's previous measures and tax advantages. I would like to ask you how you feel about this, so you are planning to help young people who are unable to make use of the subsidies currently available. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2021-03-01-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-03-01-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You told me your question, and I'll give you my answer, if you'll allow me. Maybe that's the genre. [[Gergely Farkas intervenes.]] By the way, thank you very much for your question, because it gives me the opportunity to talk in a few sentences about the measures taken in favour of young people. Of course, we do not forget the young people who have not yet reached the start of a family or the birth of a child, but they are trying to create an independent existence in buying a home. [[12.50]] By the way, I would like to inform them that if they are not yet 35 years old, they will have to pay only half the acquisition fee under the purchase price of HUF 15 million under the law of the first home, and the remaining amount will automatically be paid to them without a 12 month bonus. The government is constantly expanding the range of grants and opportunities that help young people to learn, start a family, build a home, learn a language, or find their place. In the 15- to 29-year-old population, the number of unemployed people fell by 60 percent between 2010 and 2020. As of 1 January 2022, as you know, under the economic re-launch programme, we will grant full personal income tax exemption to young people under 25 years of age. All young people under the age of 35 will be reimbursed ex post, with more than 95 thousand applicants receiving this grant from the beginning of 2018 until December 2020. And I could tell you more about these measures, but the time limit doesn't allow it. Honourable Congressman, As can be seen from the measures I have said, the national government stands up for the interests of young people, and we continue to work on it with all our possible means. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To help young people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-60	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question: "How is the social consultation going? It's an address. In answering this question, Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, who is responsible and competent, has been appointed as the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. At the request of Minister Miklós Soltész, State Secretary will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-03-01-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. One of your MPs, the native producer of the nation, János Lázár, made an eye for the free-snake castle under construction in November. At that time, Mr Lazarus agreed with the Prime Minister that this beautiful building would be taken into the care of the Mezőhegyesi Ménes estates led by him. One of your other Members of Parliament, Tamás Herczeg in the district and the mayor of the settlement, also of Fidesz, immediately began to defend the honour of the mundér, trying to explain the inexplicable, but they failed, and it was obvious to everyone that the usual Fidesz method would occur in the Free Snake, i.e. that they wanted to rent this building to a strong man of the party. In a few days, however, the citizens of the area gathered a great deal of signatures, hundreds of people signed the petition on this matter, and you were forced to back down, and against the will of the people, they did not want to give this castle into the hands of János Lazarus. Tamás Herczeg said on the day of the victory of the free-snake citizens that there will be a social consultation on the future fate of the castle. He, by the way, the congressman, in social consultation, meant that he, the Fidesz representative, would sit down from the Fidesz government, sitting down from the Fidesz government office, letting the Fidesz mayor go to the table, and another civil society organization at best and perhaps; let us not go into what makes this negotiation social, that will be another question. My question, Mr Secretary, on this matter is more about where this discussion is at this moment, and what the fate of the Free Snake Castle will be. Snake citizens are eager to hear your answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-01-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-03-01-63	Dear Parliament, Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then let's look at the facts, Congressman. On 10 November 2020, the Government submitted a bill which, in Chapter 4 of the bill, would have provided for the free transfer of ownership of the Wenckheim Castle and its park in Szabadkeresztós to the Private Works Company, in order to facilitate the provision of its cultural, heritage, education and vocational training tasks. During the hearing of the bill, Mr Tamás Herczeg submitted an amendment to the bill, which proposes that this provision be deleted. The amendment was supported by both the Parliament's Economic Committee and the Legislative Committee, and was agreed by the government. As a result, the Parliament passed the law without the provision for the Wenckheim Castle on 15 December. However, since it is entirely understandable what the fate of the castle will be, perhaps you can help in what our fellow Member Tamás Herczeg is doing quite rightly and well, in order to inform the people who live there that this ruined, poorly-looking castle is included in the national castle and castle programme. Over the past years, the government has supported this program with HUF 63 billion in total this year, thus providing more than HUF 1.5 billion in budget resources to the Wenckheim Castle in Szabadszerkós for the development of the castle for tourism purposes, complementing it with HUF 1.7 billion of EU funds. I think it's the condition of such a castle, which has been destroyed for decades, which, by the way, is your allies. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the past he didn't care, now he's finally renewed and beautiful. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-64	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why have families in need of support for solar investments been put at a more disadvantage? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2021-03-01-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As you well know, the Hungarian solar market is about to undergo a major transformation, because the possibility of applying for a popular sales account will disappear in the future. This was a popular way of accounting in Hungary in recent years, as households could even zero their electricity bill if solar panels produced as much energy as they used. The investment was predictable and predictable, since when a solar system was purchased, the family could predict when their investment would be repaid and how many years they could actually enjoy quasi-free energy. It is understandable that more people would have wanted to install such a system with preferential bank loans and home support, as this country is also good, so that renewable energy can be put to the fore in Hungary, and Hungary needs significantly less imports, but the stakeholders have been faced with the fact that if they want to use some kind of support for their solar system, they will have to conclude the contract with their service provider by June this year. It is also well known to the Secretary of State that the design, authorisation and installation of such a system takes a long time, so certain service providers are not too hasty to approve these systems. So many people are in a very difficult situation, they can run out of time without their own faults, they can stay out of this slingy settlement system, their entire financial plan can go up in smoke, which in the case of a serious investment is of no consequence. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Therefore, many do not understand why families in need of support should be put in such a difficult situation, since those who do not want to use support can deal with this by the end of 2023. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State why there is a reason for discrimination in the case of families in need of support. How can they guarantee that no one slips out of the deadline but their own fault, and what can those families expect? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The ones who don't finish till June 30th? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-03-01-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and Parliamentary Secretary Tamás Schanda responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-03-01-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary's aim is to ensure that most of the Hungarian electricity generation comes from two sources: nuclear energy and renewable energy, mainly from solar power plants. The climate and nature conservation action plan adopted a year ago set out a priority to increase the use of environmentally friendly solar energy, and the new national energy strategy aims to provide at least 200,000 households with roofed solar panels with an average of 4 kilowatts by 2035. [[13.00]] With this, we can protect the results of the reduction of the rent and provide cheap energy for Hungarian families, as well as achieve our goal of 21 percent renewable energy use. Honourable Congressman, Under the current rules on small domestic power plants, producing consumers can use the public service network as a virtual storage free of charge, so that the total annual production and consumption can be combined and only the consumption beyond the saloon should be paid to the service provider. However, on the basis of the relevant EU directive, which I believe you are well aware of, Member States which do not separately account for the electricity supplied and extracted from the grid in relation to small power plants of household size cannot grant new rights under these schemes after 31 December 2023. It is therefore necessary to adapt the regulation accordingly. Honourable Congressman, As of 1 January, the new home renovation aid was in place, under the relevant government regulation, this form of support could also be used for the installation of solar systems for households with at least one child. Development in this context [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the gross settlement system leads to almost the same 10-year payback period as in the context of the settlement. Thank you for your attention and patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff: ? It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-03-01-69	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Honourable pro-government or government officials! I would like to convey to you the views of viewers: do not lie, the opposition is pro-vaccination. You could hear all this, for example, if you could listen to the Clubradio, but even in the middle of the epidemic, in the middle of the crisis, your biggest concern was how to eliminate and silence the rest of the free publicity. It was not enough that Magyar Television and Radio were reduced to propaganda tools, they closed the Népszabadság, they took in all county newspapers, TVs, radios, everything is yours, there is only one element left, even the Index has been destroyed, compared to this, the Klubrádió is the only one in Budapest. It's the only thing in the way of the Orbán system. But remember, 101 years ago, during the rage of white terror, the Horthy system gave the order to silence it. Now they did the same thing, and then Béla Bacsó and Béla Somogyi were thrown into the Danube, and now they're doing the same thing a hundred years later, and the silence is done and executed by the Fidesz Media Council, and the frequency of the Clubradio has been distracted. Of course, you can say that they were better off, they weren't thrown into the Danube at Újpest. They were panicking in 1920, and now you're panicking for silence. Given your opposition to the Hungarian people and their European values, it is no wonder that the European Commission has also spoken on this matter. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: how long will they continue to maintain the violation of the Clubradio case? When are you gonna give me back the right to speak, the freedom of speech? Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Anett's clapping.]]
u2021-03-01-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will answer the question of the Member. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The fact is, Mr President, that you have a dispute not with the government, but with a court that applies EU and Hungarian legislation. According to the court's decision, Klubrádió will not be able to broadcast automatically on the frequency, but will decide the fate of the frequency in an open, multi-player tender. The reason why you can't broadcast automatically is because you've repeatedly violated the law, and the radio doesn't dispute it. By the way, since 2011 he has been able to use the frequency on the Hungarian market for free and without a tender. To be a little more specific, the reason that Klubradio has not received an automatic frequency extension permit is because it has violated media law twice in a year and six times in the last seven years. On this basis, it is clear that, contrary to what you claim, the Media Council would have acted in violation if it had automatically renewed the license. Please note, please, and respect the fact that the tender procedure for the frequency concerned is currently under way, and the Media Council has only registered the company operating Klubradio as a tender. So, again, it's about you creating a case, running off to Brussels to report it, taking advantage of the fact that you have a more superficial knowledge of Hungarian media conditions. However, the house of lies is now collapsing even faster than usual. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Honourable Congressman, If freedom of the press were truly valuable to you, you wouldn't have broken in with your fellow Members. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] In public television, he wasn't wearing a T-shirt like the one he's wearing right now, but there was a reason why. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question, just like this and now? It's an address. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, At midnight today, a new law on health care services will be in place to deal with the penalty of gratuity money, the medical payroll, and competitive salaries. Many health workers have not been able to get to know their new employment contracts until the last moment, nor have they been given a time to think about signing this in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic, in a situation where the limits of the functioning of health care are limited. In addition, the new system alone is not enough to eliminate gratuity money, to ensure quality health care. Thanksgiving commandos are few to motivate doctors to sign contracts. You're jumping to conclusions, pushing deadlines, keeping health workers, patients in suspense. We do not see that they are seeking a real solution when the on-call costs are lower than normal working hours. There is concern that more people have already indicated that they will not accept the new treaty, even turning their backs on the industry. In addition, there has been a significant wage tension in health care. Hospital workers are also subject to the service of health care services, which does not bring them any extra wage increases, only and only obligations. Deleting gratuity money and raising wages is a step forward, but with more doctors' salaries, no more professionals, no more assets, no less amortised buildings, no less underfunded health care. Why did you think it was time to make a change here, right now, in the middle of the biggest epidemic? How do you think we can successfully defend ourselves with a reduced number of undermotivated medical personnel who have broken the epidemic? How is this truly critical situation resolved? Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-03-01-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think that the radical increase in medical wages that Parliament was able to decide was a very important step after decades. [[László Varju: After ten years, right?!]] Nor do I think you remember a time when the wages of doctors would have increased from 2 to 2.5 times in Hungary, and this also opens up a historical opportunity to finally get the gratuity money out after 70 years. I think all reasonable people can agree with both the medical salary increase and the gratuity pay. It would have been possible in previous decades, but none of the governments has provided sufficient funding for such a truly radical and visible increase in medical wages. But the government thought that at a time when all people's lives mattered during the coronal virus epidemic, the health and life of all people had to be fought for, this might be a good time to make this radical medical wage increase. But not only do doctors' wages rise, the congresswoman is well aware that there is a 72-percent increase in the wages of nurses in this four-year cycle. There is also a 72 percent increase in nurses and a more than 100 percent increase in doctors: this does not point to undermotality, honourable Member, as you said. This will provide an opportunity to create a much more transparent employment system, with much more transparent conditions within health care. This includes a health service relationship, which brings about a clearer, more transparent and higher wage, higher pay conditions. [[13.10]] We remember left-wing health changes here when they paid for health care and simultaneously reduced the wages of doctors. Here we can talk about extra resources everywhere, and the wages of doctors and nurses can rise. In recent February, the National Director General of the Hospital also sent a long letter of information to hospitals, from which employees could be informed of the various details of the new service relationship. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-01-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zsófia Koncz, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology: Road and No 3622 road remodeling? It's an address. Congresswoman Zsófia Koncz has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-01-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, Dear House, High-quality road transport connections are essential to the growth of Hungarian businesses and to the well-being of Hungarian people, as the economy of the settlements and regions that are connected to the high-quality road network will be revived and more attractive to investors who create jobs. Thanks to the government's subsidies, in my constituency during the last year, the preparation of the expansion of the road 37 between Gesztely and Szerencs began, the completion of the road between Miskolc-Kassa motorway M30 and the renewal of the road between Tiszalúc and Tiszadob. Despite the numerous road developments that have been made so far, however, we are well aware that much of the work remains to be done. Long-standing case between Tokaj and Taktaharkány, road 3621 leading through the Taktakur and road 3622 between Szerencs and Prügy. These are practically one of the worst-quality roads in the county. My father, Ferenc Koncz, as a Member of Parliament, has put particular emphasis on the start of the renovation of the sections concerned in recent years. So far, thanks to the favourable support for rural development, a one-kilometer section has already been completed and a further 32 km of road is expected this year. This can make a significant improvement in the lives of the people living in the settlement, but it can also help to develop tourism, as tourists arriving in the area would also be happy to visit the landscape, which attracts many places with untouched natural attractions. However, further sections of roads 3621 and 3622 are still lagging behind. Dear Deputy Minister, As to what has been said, I ask how the renovation of roads 3621 and 3622 will continue. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-01-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, next is Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to start by saying that due to the serious irresponsibleness of the left, the 32,000 kilometres of road network in Hungary accumulated significant maintenance delays before 2010. On the other hand, the national civilian government considers the continued expansion of transport networks and the improvement of the state of existing infrastructure to be a priority, especially on lower roads, for which planned renovation programmes are implemented every year. Between 2010 and 2020, more than 6600 kilometres of roads were completed, and the total value of the investments carried out was HUF 850 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We always remember your father, Congressman Ferenc Koncz, who, like you, was fond of the development of his constituency, Borsod and the fate of the people who lived there. Thanks to his persistent and continuous work, a number of investments and developments have been made and started in the region. May I therefore be pleased to inform you that the renewal of the Tokaj-Taktaharkány and Szerencs-Prügy connecting roads is included in several sections within the programmes listed above. On the Tokaj-Taktaharkány connecting road, the renovation of the Tiszatardos-Csobaj-Taktabaj stretch of more than 8 kilometres was completed in 2019 and the renovation between the Tokaj-Tiszaladány will begin in spring, and this will also affect the passage through the latter settlement. In the second half of the year, the renovation of the Taktabai-Prügy section will also begin. The renovation of the Szerencs-Prügy connecting road is being planned, while improvements are being made in the parts of the road section concerning Luck and its outer area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-01-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "What do you say to the tens of thousands of proud Somogy citizens living in the district of Marcali and Fonyód, who are going to the hospital in Marcal? Will you grant our requests? Yes or no? It's an address. Mr. Ádám Steinmetz has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, I have drawn your attention on several occasions to the Calvary of the Marcal hospital. I am glad that, thanks to this, the hospital's autonomy has finally been restored. However, we regret that, contrary to the promise, the hospital did not become independent on 1 November, and even since then it has been connected to the hospital in Kaposvár with a thousand threads. Dear Secretary of State, People's patience has run out. We do not want to hear any more of this, because we have heard enough of this, nor will we stand by and watch our beloved hospital be systematically dismantled. We therefore initiated a signature collection, which will continue until you meet our demands here in Budapest, the return of autonomy, the reduction of waiting lists, the re-launch of obstetric gynecology and the children's ward, and the CT acquisition promised by Attila Móring for seven years now. In the meantime, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State why the hospital in Marcal was not independent on 1 November and in the 4 months since then. And when the Marcal hospital becomes independent, in what way will it be expected that health care will be improved, in what way will it be better for the people living there? Secretary of State, what do you finally say to tens of thousands of proud Somogy citizens living in the district of Marcali and Fonyód, all those who go to the hospital in Marcala to heal? Will you grant our requests? Yes or no? Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-01-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On behalf of Mr Attila Móring, I would also like to thank you for your support for the ideas of both the Member and the Government that would improve the hospital in Marcal, on the one hand, and for its autonomy. As you know, in the health system during the epidemic, there has been a change in the way in which county hospitals play a greater role in the professional coordination of urban hospitals. Now the hospital in Marcala has more autonomy than any other hospital in the city. There are certain issues in which the county hospital organizes the activities of the city hospitals in the county area, and where they operate economically and professionally. What is true of other hospitals is now also true of the Marcal hospital, whether inpatient or outpatient care, or the organisation of practice communities in the area, in which the Marcal hospital has been given new, extended functions, as have all other hospitals in the city. I'd argue that there would be any kind of reprisal on the hospital grounds. In 2012, a HUF 15 million grant was purchased. In 2014, there were two grants, a purchase of assets from HUF 25 million and a renovation of air conditioning, air handling and cooling systems of 14.5 million.In 2016, a roof was renovated from HUF 16 million. In recent years, the hospital has received funding from budget funds of HUF 220 million and funding from tender funds of HUF 453 million. So this is not at all a sign of downsizing or redeployment, honourable Member, but a sign of what you are fighting for, what Congressman József Attila Móring is also struggling to do, so that it can be a true professional centre for this hospital in Marcal, with greater economic autonomy. There have been a lot of steps in this direction. We also thank you for your work, and thank you, Mr József Móring, and I think that both of your work are patients and future patients who benefit most from it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[13.20]]
u2021-03-01-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Gergely Arató, representative of DK, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why did the proposals of the National Student Council not be accepted in connection with the completion of the graduation process? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-85	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The advisory organisation of the Ministry is the National Student Council, composed by one student from the 19 counties and two students from Budapest. The National Student Council reviewed the impact of the corona virus epidemic on graduation and made five simple recommendations to the Ministry. I would like this year's graduations not to be a condition for 50 hours of community work, because it was obviously very difficult to do it in this academic year or in the previous academic year; in the case of advanced exams, students should be able to do so in their own institutions, so that they do not have to travel to another institution, so that the risk is reduced; they consider it important that teachers get ahead of the vaccination plan; they also ask that for everyone who has graduated earlier, the possibility of re-graduating should be free of charge this year; and that in the system of additional points, not only the complex language exam should be added, but also written or oral performance, again because it has been difficult for many students in the current circumstances to pass the complex language examination originally planned. I would like to ask the Secretary of State that he is right that the Ministry ignores the student's proposals and that, if so, what is the reason for this. In addition, I would also like to provide a way in which this does not include the fact that, if you wish, the Secretary of State should mention how preparations for graduation will be made possible for students in the situation where the Chief Medical Officer of the National Officer spoke today about the possibility that education as a whole might switch to digital education. I think we could reassure a lot of parents and students today, because we have a common goal, so that students can graduate prepared and safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-03-01-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the National Student Council is an important conciliation forum, not an advisory body, as you said, but an important conciliation forum, I am glad that you and the left have found out this year. Unfortunately, last year they didn't notice this body, because when you here in Parliament demanded the abolition of graduation [[Gergely Harvesto: It wasn't like that!]] [[Gergely Harvesto: It wasn't like that!]] loudly when they told me not to graduate (Gergely Harvesto: There was no such thing!) In fact, one of your branches, one of the unions, called for your graduation boycott, then the same organization that you have just referred to as having to pay attention to, said in overwhelming majority that no, graduation under adequate security conditions to prevent the spread of the epidemic, but it must be kept. Then you have not heard the proposal of the National Student Council, the overwhelming majority, this year you have noticed. This shows that it is not the safety of students or their educational progress that is really important to you, but only the politics. In the spring, in agreement with the Student Council, 80,000 students were finally able to graduate, and in the autumn 30,000 students, with the epidemiological preparedness, did so within the epidemiological framework in addition to the security measures, so there were no focal points at any location, but at the same time they managed to avoid the recruitment chaos, as the graduation could continue, and there was no disadvantage for the graduates this year. You know, the 2020 Spring Graduation Results, the 3.61 result, are broadly equivalent to the average of the last five years, the 0.89 percent of the insufficient grades are even lower than the usual 1 percent, and the percentage of repeats has decreased by 40 percent. Of course, the new proposals were also discussed by Mr Zoltán Maruzsa, State Secretary for Public Education with the National Student Council, obviously not in person, but in a digital way, but throughout the whole period of the epidemic. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] digital contact, and I think I'll still have the opportunity to comment on exactly what the content of this is. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: This is not immediate! Dr. Bence Rétvári: The same theme for another!]]
u2021-03-01-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. It's an address. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-03-01-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, there will be an opportunity, since my question is of a similar nature to that of the Member before me. Students who are going to graduate this year will have to stand in multiple difficult fields. By the time they get to the exams, it'll be exactly six months before they're ready online, practically without more help. This is not just about having more time to learn because you don't have to travel; this age is decisive because of the foundation of the future, but also because now is the time to make a living of the key emotions that young people will be able to build on for the rest of their lives. It is no exaggeration to say that they now have a multiplicity of difficulty, and we must help it by all means. Last spring graduation was different to the fact that the digital transition came suddenly, but it lasted only two months, there was no big change in the fall exams compared to the spring, but at present almost the entire last year is online. If there was much more effort to be put into learning last year, then this is exponentially true, because young people are left alone in front of a full-day machine, they may not be able to follow the clock in the same way as they are in the flesh, and it is more difficult to avoid being behind. As regards oral examinations, this is particularly important, since they have less opportunity to compete orally and practice in advance. I would therefore like to have an answer that, in the event of a stagnation or worsening of the epidemic situation, there is a chance that oral examinations will be cancelled again this year, like last year's exams. At first, I did not want to ask the remaining question, because I thought that there might be enough time to answer, but I still ask that you take into account the proposals of the National Student Council from the 50-hour community service, the free rejuvenation and the prioritization of teachers in the order of vaccination. Thank you very much. [[Applause for DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-01-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You were extremely chivalrous, because you asked the questions that Gergely Arató was curious about, but as a notary, you may be able to listen to this now if you come back in the other entrance. As far as safety requirements are concerned, up to 10 persons per room could take the written exams; a mandatory body temperature measurement at the entrance to the building; a small number of oral exams had appropriate restraining rules; a mask had to be worn outside the exam room; and teachers were given gloves in addition to the mask. Indeed, it was a completely different period of preparation for the students who are now graduating than for everyone in public education, except for juniors, to be more precise, those in the lower classes who still have presence education, but in the spring, they also had a break, so we tried to help students with digital curriculum and with the possibility of pre-school graduates. As far as the school community service is concerned, it is usually done not in the last year, but in the previous years, and an information on how this can now be done digitally or at least without personal contact is published on the website of the Education Office. In the context of language examination, language testing centres can operate under appropriate security protocols, and even some test centres have been given the opportunity to organise an online examination. In relation to free exams: if for any reason he did not pass the exam, the person applying for the first regular graduation exam last year, or who now takes a repeat exam, or who has a semi-acquired exam, we ensure that the exam is free of charge. The mid-level graduation exams can be passed by everyone in their own institution, or we strive not only for graduates and educators, but for all registered persons to be given vaccination. Hungary strives to get its first vaccination by Easter for those registered [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So are the graduates and the teachers involved in graduation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Krisztina Hohn applauds.]]
u2021-03-01-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that Mr Arató, when he left his seat, came here to his office, because he is actually the notary of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology:. What does the Government do to meet the European Union's new ambitious climate protection goal? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Balczó has the floor. Here you go. [[13.30]]
u2021-03-01-93	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, At its meeting on 11 December 2020, the European Council adopted a more ambitious climate protection target. According to this, a net reduction of 55% in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared to 1990 levels should be achieved. The document contains a rather intriguing paragraph, sentence:. The said objective will be met collectively by the EU in the most cost-effective way possible, taking into account the aspects of fairness and solidarity, all Member States will participate while leaving no one behind. It does not show that it sets out the targets which each Member State is required to meet, or at least expected to meet. Today there is a huge difference in CO2 emissions. Some countries have not reduced emissions, let alone increased emissions compared to the base year, while demanding the adoption of the new target most forcefully. It cannot be ignored, however committed we are, that more intensive emission reductions are detrimental to many sectors of the economy, with social consequences. The Parliament has recorded its climate protection commitments. It confirmed that it reduces by 40 percent by 2030 compared to the level 90. So the Hungarian commitment is exactly 40 percent, and we reach full climate neutrality by 50. Orbán also accepted this. My question is, therefore, what the government intends to do to achieve these objectives, and it intends to set a target of more than 40 percent. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-01-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is addressed to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Protecting the created world, protecting our environmental values, must be our common concern, because we are talking about the future of our children and of their grandchildren. So it is not primarily because of the targets set by the Union, but because of the future of our children and grandchildren that climate protection measures need to be taken. Honourable Congressman, You are also right that some Member States, which appear to be very committed orally to achieving the targets, have not reduced their emissions compared to 1990 levels. But it is also a fact that, on the other hand, it is outstanding within the EU that our country's greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by one third since 90. In fact, while the Hungarian economy expanded by 5.4 percent in 2018, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by almost 1 percent. In 19 we achieved a 0.3 percent reduction in emissions with an increase in GDP of 4.9 percent based on preliminary data. This is a great achievement, honourable Member. Mr President, let us not forget that the Hungarian Government adopted 5 major climate and energy policy documents at the beginning of 2020. Hungary was therefore the first country within our region to set the climate neutrality target for 2050 at a legal level. Otherwise, it is regrettable that the law in which this was laid down was submitted by the left and then voted against. You didn't vote for it either. That is why I think this shows who is responsible, this is the national civil side, and who is just talking about it. Honourable Congressman, It is also an important aspect to discuss the measures taken by the strategies in any event. This is why we are saddened that you have not come to the climate debate day you have initiated. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-01-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Attorney General:. Lajos Kósa will get away with this, too? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that Mr. István Lajtár, Deputy Attorney General, will answer you, whom I respectfully welcome. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-01-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, We have long known that in the transaction between Lajos Kósa and the heiress in Beller, we are talking about HUF 1300 billion, which even in this corrupt system appears to be a newspaper reader. The husband and son of the heiress in Bell have committed suicide since the case exploded, so two people who might have been able to help with discernment, such as the clarification of questions about how to walk from the street to a Swiss bank by treating him there as a king. Of course, this treatment would be explained by the fact that the heiress allegedly had 99 percent of the shares of a French bank, and she wanted about a quarter of it to be passed on to Lajos Kósa, the head of the program of modern cities. It has not been established why our lucky fellow Member was elected. It is strange to say that this bell woman, with a coin toss or a dice, decided who to make one of Europe's richest men with a single stroke of a pen. In any case, Lajos Kósa could hardly be accused of greed; my grandmother always said that if they give, accept if they hit you, run away. But it's not that simple. In the recent statement of the heiress in Bell, she claims that her bank account received an amount that was actually intended for a family friend in a ministerial position. The rest of the testimony suggests that the heiress is talking about Lajos Kósa, yet the court refuses to listen as a witness to the representative of Debrecen. My fellow Members, who are worthy of Cabaret, are not even willing to listen to Lajos Kósa as a witness in this matter. I ask you, Mr. Deputy Attorney General, will Lajos Kósa get away with this too? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-01-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Deputy Attorney General István Lajtár. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, In the matter referred to in the question of the Member, the National Detective Office for the Alert Police carried out an investigation into the crime of fraud and other crimes, which are particularly damaging. The investigating authority carried out an ex officio investigation of the entire criminally relevant historical facts in the proceedings. As it was discovered that Lajos Kósa was also deceived by the burdened, she was questioned as a witness against the statement made by the congresswoman. The loaded one is kft. the fate of the money transferred by him, the circumstances of the transfer and the supporting evidence are contained in the indictment. All of this, by the way, fits perfectly with the series of frauds that are the subject of the charge. I note that the defendant's claim, which she also refers to, and according to which she passed on the money received from Kft. to another person or to another person's agent, and only at the request of that person she subsequently acknowledged the debt in her later statements, so she herself denied it in her own statements, claiming that she had made the false claims on an external influence. Following the completion of the investigation, the Mátészalka District Attorney's Office filed an indictment with the Mátészalka District Court. The case is therefore in court, the court is entitled to decide on the actions of evidence and the court will also decide on the issue of criminal liability. On behalf of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Hungary, I strongly reject the politically motivated, completely unfounded accusations that the prosecutor's office with jurisdiction in the case has acted or acted in breach of the law or of the law. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-01-100	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of Group of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:. What is taxpayers' money spent on? It's an address. László Lóránt Keresztes has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, About a year and a half ago, the Hungarian government announced that they wanted to acquire and establish a seaport in Trieste, Italy. Then Minister Péter Szijjártó said that such a port will be able to meet the transport needs of all domestic companies. [[13.40]] At the time, the experts questioned this claim and doubted that this particular area could be suitable for such a port. It looks like this contract is over, this sale is over, and not so long ago, a few weeks ago, the government press was blaring that we had a seaport again. Mr. Secretary, I used to look at the area, so I tracked it down and looked directly at it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Oh, he went to Trieste, what a sacrifice!]] It's practically not a port, it's a broken industrial area, a former, abandoned oil refinery, that's spiced up by weeds, and around it, when you look at the infrastructure connections, it also leaves something to be desired. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is whether Hungary really has a seaport, or indeed it has been able to obtain a broken former industrial area in a year and a half or two. If the latter is the case, as I have also seen in person, then when will this become a functioning seaport? What parameters, what tasks will you be able to perform? And if what you said a year and a half ago, Minister, is that such a port would satisfy the transport needs of all domestic companies, do you acknowledge that the nearly thousand billion-dollar Budapest-Belgrád railway project is completely unnecessary? The reason for this project is that it will provide a way to reach the otherwise Chinese-owned port of Pyreus, Greece. So you acknowledge that the completion of the Budapest-Belgrád railway project is completely unnecessary and that you will finally stop this project when there will be a port in Trieste that really meets all needs? And I have one more question. A few months ago, the project was launched again, based on government communication, to target a third seaport, towards the port of Koper in Slovenia, the Hungarian government will be involved in the modernisation of the railway line with huge public funds. Has the Hungarian government decided where they wish to go to sea? Thank you very much.
u2021-03-01-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The status of a seaport is not determined by what was previously there, but by the right of that State to establish a seaport there. The state concession for the part of the shore purchased by the Hungarian State allows the operation of a seaport. Thus, legal status: suitable for the establishment of seaports and seaports. At the moment, the technical preparatory work is under way to determine the details of the development and to conclude the discussions with the Italian authorities on the development with the results and to determine the necessary environmental status and the costs of the necessary infrastructure design work and the exact timing of the development. As far as the railway line is concerned, there is no railway line operating only in one direction, not only for the transport of goods coming from Pireus, but also for both directions, since one of the principles of transport is that containers must also be returned to their destination in order to provide continuous service. During this process, the number of containers transported in recent years has increased from 3 million per year to 5 million in the case of one company and 10 million containers are the future goal. So Trieste and Pireus are not competitors, but two ports for specific purposes. In Trieste, the most dynamically developing port in the region, Hungary is developing a self-owned terminal, and thus a project of regional importance is being implemented to enable Hungary to achieve its own economic positions in chains in the global commercial space. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:, Is it not important for you to ease the pain of cancer patients? It's an address. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Minister, After nearly two years of discussion and discussion, the UN Committee on Drugs adopted a recommendation from the World Health Organisation on the re-rating of cannabis. This recognised the use of cannabis in medicine and brought about a number of international legal obstacles. Unfortunately, Hungary voted against the proposal as a single EU Member State. The EU Commission has published on its website that a infringement procedure is being opened against Hungary. Numerous studies have shown that cannabis, its active substances and products made from them can be used effectively and safely to address several health problems, including to relieve the pain of cancer patients and to control the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. I don't think anyone, and so you, has the right to take away this chance to put up with this fatal illness, either from patients or from their families, who are in great pain to watch their loved ones suffer. According to the proposal you voted against, cannabis would only be regulated among drugs with medical applications. I would like to remind Mr Secretary of State that there is a great deal and very dangerous substance in these regulations, including opiates, morphine and fentanyl derivatives. So it's not about consumption. So I ask you, Secretary of State, is it not important for you to ease the pain of cancer patients, or is it just defiance, neglect, self-interest, or what desired this vote with gender? Thank you very much for your reply.
u2021-03-01-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It's a bit surprising from the former right-wing Jobbik. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] Of course, each country is striving to find newer and newer ways to relieve pain. But obviously, there is a need for pain relief methods that do not involve any greater risk, but the minimum risk, so that many new medicines and medicinal products will be adopted in Hungary, and pain relief methods are becoming more and more advanced. At the same time, I believe that this is an objective shared by everyone to prevent addiction diseases as much as possible or to address them in order to reduce both individual and social risks. As far as the drug you have indicated is concerned, the EU drug monitoring centre in 2018 said that there are no research results here that fully support the position that you have here, but that there are mainly review studies and results from randomised clinical trials. So the results of these are fragmented on the one hand and limited on the other. In addition, a small number of samples have been made, so they cannot be considered sufficiently well founded and therefore cannot support any such comprehensive decision. That is why Hungary has decided as it has decided on this issue. Honourable Congressman, We will continue to support all newer and newer ways to relieve pain, but when this type of medical cannabis is not well-founded enough, Hungary can't support it, just by referring to the above-mentioned opinion, which, as I said to you, was prepared by the European Union's drug monitoring centre, so we can't support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Do teachers really deserve a 100% pension, or is that just a good-sounding promise? It's an address. Mr Tamás Csányi has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is memorable that Minister Kasler promised the pedagogical society in September 2020 that anyone who gets sick during the coronal virus epidemic would be entitled to 100 percent of the sick. The Minister's promise could rightly be interpreted by those who would consider infection to be an occupational disease, i.e. it is presumably assumed that they were ill during their work. In practice, of course, this did not go so easily, as we have been accustomed to from you, since even in December we were told that this promise could not be made in Kasler, but instead of being on the side of teachers fighting in the front line, they even pushed one on them. How? In order for a covid-infected educator to receive 100 percent of the allowance, Mr. Secretary of State, he has to go through a long, over-grabbed and humiliating procedure, and he still may not get the 40 percent difference. Yes, what you promised them, Mr. Secretary. You know, there's a lot of outrage, because they're getting desperate signals from the players in the sector, from the stakeholders, from trade unions, that even though teachers are starting this awkward procedure, it's months before they get the rest of the money if they get it, because that's what we hear about. [[13.50]] Not to mention that in all this unnecessary procedure, the general practitioners were involved as a sort of decision maker, as their supportive opinion is also necessary, because they need to be told where the teacher was infected. Unfortunately, experience shows that district doctors do not always dare, let us say, to make this little professional decision, so those involved will be left alone in their humiliating struggle for a promised percentage of sick money. Dear Secretary of State, Why have they not fulfilled this promise fully, and how do they intend to solve the problems that arise? Why did the teachers release their hands during the viral epidemic, even though they are considered to be front-line combatants? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-03-01-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government's goal is to treat everyone who is infected with a crown virus as an educator and in the course of their profession as an occupational disease, and to receive a 100% pension for all such educators. For this, we have built a series of steps that are indeed several steps, but necessary. Everyone can look at the form on the website of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, which is literally called the "Acquisition of the suspicion of occupational disease." This must be completed and forwarded to the metropolitan and county government offices as OSH authorities. So the document downloaded from the Ministry's website must be completed and sent to the government office. The government office then calls on the medical service, the Department of Work Hygiene and Employment Health of the Centre for Public Health, in the procedure, whether or not this notification could constitute an occupational disease. It's important, as you pointed out, that the teachers involved will receive 60 percent of the salary as soon as possible, as soon as possible. What we're talking about here isn't total pay, it's just between 60 and 100 percent, so it's 40 percent. This is what will be paid after this procedure. Indeed, since we are dealing with individual cases and individual cases, there were indeed longer time limits at the beginning, in this connection several complaints have probably come to you and to us as well. That is why the government has tried to do everything in its power to make this procedure as fast as possible, to wait as long as possible for teachers to receive this 40 percent salary. We hope that as many of you will get this as soon as possible. We hope that everyone who is infected with a crown virus while working at school will recover as soon as possible, and we also hope that this 40% difference will be obtained as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-01-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology a question:. Fidesz Punishment campaign against those who refuse to submit? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, If the M9 motorway is to be built according to the plans that have come to light, then the already peripheral southern Somogy region will be in even more trouble if it cannot connect to the country's main transport system with normal roads. In fact, his demise, his dying has reached the end stage, and the population retention force will decrease even further, and the one who knows will flee the area. Therefore, I would like to ask you to tell me when the complete reconstruction of Route 68 connecting the shore of Lake Balaton with the coast of Drava will take place. This stained path is completely inadequate to fulfill the role that was originally intended for him. I would also like to ask you when the 6 will finally be something, and when the citizens of South Somogy and Baranya will be able to travel from Barcs to the county seat in Baranya, on roads that have been trampled on by truck traffic that doesn't rumble on Pécs. I would also like to ask when the financial distress of the largest independent municipality in South Somogy will be completed. No misunderstanding, Mr. Secretary of State, no one regrets the small and, in fact, the resources that are now coming from Csurgo swimming in billions of tender funds, namely those 3 billion forints, because there is a great poverty there, and the people who live there really need it. However, the disproportion we can see about Nagyatád: the Nagyatád, which will celebrate the 50th anniversary of its inauguration this year, and the Nagyatád, which has been there for years now, has submitted to the Hungarian Tourism Agency the bath development tender that you constantly negligee, does not deserve this treatment. When will they finally realize that they're not handing out their own money when they decide on these resources, they'd be fulfilling their duty? [[The president's gonna jog his glass.]] when they're giving these municipalities what they deserve? Thank you, and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-03-01-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We don't punish and punish local governments. Don't confuse us with the fallen left you're paying for. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yes! That's right.]] Honourable Congressman! You know it, and you know it, just like everyone else, that the national civilian government is the best and greatest friend and most important ally of the municipalities. [[Rumors and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Honourable Congressman, The government's strategic objective is to continuously support the development of road infrastructure and to enable the level of transport to be increased by means of new investments. Our priority is to ensure that cities with county rights are accessible by expressway, drive highways and motorways to national borders, and reach a four-track road section within 30 minutes of any settlement in the country. Honourable Congressman, As regards road M9, I would like to inform you that the investigations and expert discussions on the precise trail of the corridor are still under way. With regard to the development of Somogy County, I can also inform you that, on the proposal of the Regional Parliamentary Representative, László Szászfalvi, the preparatory tasks for the development of the 68th main road between the M7 motorway and the Barcs border are expected to start this year, and the final building permit for the M60-Pécs-Barcs border is expected to be obtained in the first quarter of 2022. In addition, a significant number of roads are being built and renovated in the area as part of the Hungarian village programme. As far as tourism grants are concerned, honourable Member, the winners of the tenders are individuals, businesses and municipalities alike, and when assessing the aid [[The president's gonna jog his glass.]] not the candidate's identity or party standing, but the content of the application is the basis for the decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-01-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. Now we move on to immediate questioning. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, MEPs Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask Mr György Szilágyi to accept the person of the response or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-117	We'll wait for the Prime Minister next week.
u2021-03-01-118	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Congressman, as I have said, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, MEPs Tamás Csányi and György Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask Mr László György Lukács to accept the person of the response or to ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-03-01-119	With this question, we'd like to wait for the Minister next week. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-01-120	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I would like to inform you that the Minister will have to answer you at the next hour of immediate questions. Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: what is the truth now? It's an address. [[14.00]] Honourable Congressman, Minister, because of your absence, you have authorized Secretary Bence Rétvári to answer. [[For signal:]] I see that Congressman accepts the person who is responding. Mr László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Let's see what happened in the last week's vaccination. To the journalist's suggestion last week that the Orbán government has only committed 1.7 million doses of Moderna vaccine to 3.5 million available, Viktor Orbán said that it is nonsense. But he also said in his interview that time is more important than the current price of the vaccine. However, for a few days after that, the Crown Virus Press Center failed Viktor Orbán when he said that Pfizer's and Moderna's vaccines had a very similar mechanism of action, but because of the more favourable conditions of delivery and the purchase price, the government saw that the Moderna vaccine did not buy so much now. So the journalistic argument, or Orbán's, did not really give up about 1.8 million Western vaccines, and the explanatory statement also shows that the Orbán government is not counting on this vaccine yet. On the other hand, Viktor Orbán said that time is more important than the price of the vaccine, and even Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office confirmed that when asked about the price of the Chinese vaccine, we know that we are talking about a price of HUF 10,000 per piece. He then noted that the price in this case is secondary to the health benefit. So how different, my fellow Members, is the government's attitude towards the Eastern and Western vaccination, even though both have the same goal, the same effect, and would like to aim at the same thing. Now it seems that Viktor Orbán has set aside the western vaccine, the Moderna vaccine, on the basis of the high price, and the Moderna vaccine, which represents about 1.8 million Hungarian grafts, does not count. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a double standard. But what is the reason for this, in addition to the fact that the government is winning, let us hear from the Secretary of State: what is the real reason, Mr. Secretary of State, that they do not order from the Moderna vaccination when it is necessary, humiliating or something else? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-03-01-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-03-01-123	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You seem to have taken the lie train launched by the Gyurcsány couple, but if you do not believe anyone here in Hungary, neither the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority, nor the Hungarian surgeon, nor anyone else, or even the general doctor who says that the disease is better than the vaccination, then perhaps you believe the current and previous President of the European Commission. What did they say about the purchase that you said was flawless, and that is all Hungary should have based its efforts on how to inoculate Hungarian people? Let's see what the man you would blindly follow, honourable Member. Mrs Von der Leyen said that the European Union was somewhat delayed in the process of authorising vaccines, too optimistic about mass production. Perhaps we were too confident that what we ordered was actually being delivered on time. In Hungarian, he admitted that the Commission has a vaccine on paper and in contract, but it doesn't actually have one. And if the Commission does not, neither do the Member States and neither does Hungary. Well, that's nothing compared to what your predecessor Jean-Claude Juncker said. You have not even quoted to Viktor Orbán such a sharp criticism as you have said about the current purchase of vaccines, honourable Member, which you have said is a flawless purchase of vaccine. Jean-Claude Juncker said: "It was a very slow process, I think, and it was not done with the utmost transparency. And then he said, "It's not enough, it's not coming fast enough, and it's completely unclear how, how, and how much it's coming to the European Union. This is what you're saying, it's absolutely good. How many vaccines have Hungary committed in the joint European defence? We have committed 14 million vaccinees for the vaccination of 187 thousand people. This is far more than a ten million-dollar country could possibly need. But what we have seen is that it does not come in time, and that is why we have tied up a Russian and Chinese vaccine capable of inoculating 3.5 million people, because we have seen that this is not only on paper, but it is actually coming in by plane or by truck, and this is here, and the Hungarian people are being vaccinated today. If we'd done what you're asking, thousands, tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people would have had less immunity and vaccination. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László György Lukács. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-125	Dear Secretary of State, He still did not answer why Hungarians should use Chinese instead of 1.8 million Moderna vaccines. When available, why didn't you bring him home to Hungary? Why didn't you invite him here so that this would be here, and the Hungarians would be able to play with it? I know why, I know why. Because you are more interested in the Eastern business that can be done there with the vaccinations that have fallen from the truck and the business that you already know from the spring wave, rather than bringing home the vaccines that are available to Hungary, which you do have. We really need as many shots as possible, but why are you ordering Eastern instead of Western, and more expensively when you say that the price doesn't matter, and you think it's safe to put everything out, and you're not gonna criticize the price in that? The EPP Jobbik has always had a clear position on this: vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency are trusted throughout Europe and in Hungary, and should be given priority. I'll tell you that if China had an interest in getting its own vaccine into Europe, it would inject, initiate, go through the way it did with electronics, the way it did with other medicines, and the way it went through with other products. What we don't understand is why they can't do this right now. Most likely because they trust that Viktor Orbán is their real poster boy and he will arrange everything for them. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-01-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You're going through the same lie about vaccine. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Gyula Budai: You're against vaccination!]] Like what they did with the ventilators. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] What has the European Union guaranteed with regard to joint acquisition of respirators? [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] To deliver the necessary ventilators in 52 weeks, Your Honour. Where would we be? The 52-week deadline would still not have passed, honourable Member. They're doing the same thing now. You are asking why Hungary will not inoculate people in March with a vaccine promised for December, while we have a vaccine from the East by March. Ladies and gentlemen, You are actually anti-vaccination (György Szilágyi intervenes.) In fact, you're playing to make the epidemic as long as possible, the fewer people inoculate themselves with Chinese or Russian vaccines. But you've seen one of our prides at Semmelweis University, they know his reputation all over the world. And do you, László György Lukács, the representative of the medical exporter, know that the Russian vaccine is more effective than the Rector Béla Merkely who, as the rector of one of the world's most prestigious medical universities, is injecting himself? ! Do you know better, Congressman, than the Rector of Semmelweis University? ! (György Szilágyi intervenes.) You are merely anti-vaccination, and you have put your policies on the whole epidemic under their political goal, rather than working together. Shame on you! [[György Szilágyi: You should be ashamed of yourselves! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Honourable Congressman, Prime Minister, because of his absence, he has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond. I respectfully ask you to accept the person you are responding to or to wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-03-01-129	I'll take it.
u2021-03-01-130	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Maybe in a different style, because we're talking about people's lives. [[Miklós Soltész: That's right!]] I would like to begin by saying that, in our view, the most important thing is that as many people as possible receive the vaccine. The position of the MSZP has been quite clear from this beginning: we recommend, even in this chaos, that all Hungarian compatriots ask their general doctor, and what the general doctor considers appropriate and advises him to do is to give it to himself. But, you know, Minister, there is a problem here that, regardless of the number of hundreds of thousands of people and hundreds of thousands of families today, the hundreds of thousands of people and families who work abroad are studying abroad and the lives of their families and tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people commuting in Western Hungary. The Polish government decided last week, and he himself made the decision of Viktor Orbán's great ally to only allow people vaccinated with vaccines approved by the EU agency to enter his territory without restrictions. The fact is that this may be true for the Union as a whole, but even for different other Member States, we do not yet know. But if so, it could be a very, very big problem for many people, including their livelihoods and their learning, because of these decisions. So for the first time, before I give any opinion or suggestion, I respectfully ask the Minister what the Hungarian Government intends to do to ensure that hundreds of thousands of people's lives and livelihoods are not put at risk from this point of view, and what they intend to do to ensure that Hungarian citizens do not suffer harm in the EU's common regulations and national regulations, even if they have received vaccinations that have not been authorised in the EU here in Hungary. I'm waiting for your answer. [[14.10]]
u2021-03-01-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, thank you for asking. I fully agree with you that the most important thing right now is the vaccination, as many people as possible, and as many people as possible get the vaccine that protects you from the plague and protects you from the disease. I think if there's an identity, it's a good point. I would like to point out that, in recent weeks, many of your faction and your party have taken their stand against what kind of vaccine is needed. This may be a little contrary to the fact that the worst vaccine is better than the disease, but if you're in that position, you're on it. What you have raised in your question is a little premature, because for now there is a border closure in most countries in Europe, and you may have missed the fact that in recent days several countries have registered for a Chinese vaccine that we had not thought of before, including a neighbouring country, Austria. I would like to bring to your attention the press release of the Austrian Chancellor, who said that they would like not only to order a Russian vaccine, but also to produce it. So your anti-Eastern vaccine is quite simply incomprehensible, even in Western Europe. Of course, as I said, if you are on the side of the vaccine, we would be happy to do so, and it would be good to have this not only at this time, but also in several statements, then perhaps we would be able to encourage more people together to be vaccinated. I repeat the words of my colleague, the Secretary of State, to your attention, we have ordered 14 million 187 thousand vaccines from European Union procurement, and 3.5 million from Eastern vaccine purchases due to slowness and delayed delivery. So what I can tell you is that the Hungarian government has ordered enough vaccine for 17.6 million people. Let's hope there's no problem with vaccinations. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-134	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Harangozó. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-135	Oh, my God, I would have listened to another Minister, see if he'd say anything about what I asked. Minister, as Deputy Prime Minister, I'm sorry, don't you have a straight line about the fate of these people, hundreds of thousands of our fellow Hungarians? ! That it's early? It is not early, Minister, because the vaccination will determine the lives of people for a minimum of six months, and it is not a coincidence that people are nervous, and it will harm the case of vaccination. I'm sure there's three things you can do. Get their Eastern partners, Russian and Chinese partners to submit that damn authorisation to the European Union authorities. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How tailor-made you are!]] And if the vaccine is right, then this issue is solved in one blow. The second thing you can do, Minister, is to negotiate with the EU Member States and the European Union themselves, so that Hungarian citizens are not disadvantaged because the Hungarian government has chosen such a solution. The third thing you can do now, Minister, is to take into account, on your own initiative, whether a person has a foreign employee permit and a learning permit. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If age and disease can be taken into account, then this too, and we have prevented this problem in our own power. Minister, if hundreds of thousands of people here lose their jobs, you'll notice. Thank you for listening.
u2021-03-01-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would have liked to have heard a sentence from you in order to have as many of you vaccinated as possible. It's, let's not sugarcoat it, it's canceled again. So it would be good to finally decide whether they're on the side of the vaccine or if they're still representing anti-vaccination. The second thing is that the Hungarian government consistently represents the interests of all Hungarian citizens. So I would like to reassure everyone that one or two countries may try different restrictions, but the vaccines that Hungary is getting are effective, are allowed by the Hungarian authorities and are capable of protecting human life, and this is the most important one, Member. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: That's right!]] You may be talking about a problem that will arise in a year or two or six months from now, but for now, when there is such an infection and we are in the third wave, the question is not what the Polish Government will decide, then the question is how to protect Hungarian citizens. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: That's right!]] And that's what we're doing. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Despite all the obstructions you're doing, you're doing it. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-138	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, representative of DK, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Mr President, the Prime Minister has given Mr Mihály Varga the right to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask you, you accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-03-01-139	After Minister has refused to answer the previous question, I will wait for Prime Minister, in case I have better luck with him.
u2021-03-01-140	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. The case of the lying government with the lame dog. Because of his absence, Minister Miklós Soltész has given the right to reply. I respectfully ask the congresswoman, and she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Anett will take the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, If you don't want to get caught with your lies, you might want to keep in mind what you said earlier, and you'll be able to coordinate with your peers in advance to say the same thing. You've missed this and you've been busted. Thursday's news from the Telex News Portal that you ordered only half of the EU's Moderna vaccine. On Friday, the Prime Minister called this nonsense, but on Saturday, the RTL news had to acknowledge it, and I quote: they did not see the need to buy the entire quota because the price was not favourable. That's only half the cover-up. Meanwhile, they saw the need to order three times as many Chinese vaccines, which is significantly more expensive. But there is another difference between the two vaccines: Moderna has been tested, found safe and approved by the European pharmaceutical authority, the Chinese have been declared effective and safe by a Hungarian government decree, without investigation, on the basis that a million people have already received it. Dear Secretary of State, The counterfeit Chinese vaccine in circulation is a physiological saline solution. Hundreds of millions of people in the world must have received this, so the question is rightfully raised, that if the Chinese had brought this into the country, the current Hungarian government would have allowed this as a vaccine in a regulation. You believe that the Chinese vaccine is necessary because we do not get enough from the EU. There is no doubt that if we don't order enough, we obviously don't get enough. Last Tuesday, for example, we had 100,000 doses of unused western vaccines, but those over 60 years of age were vaccinated with Chinese. It seems to me that you have an important interest in putting yourself out with the doubtful, but at least more expensive Chinese vaccine instead of the safe Western, and trying to use propaganda, threats, and western vaccines to discredit us. My question, Mr. Secretary, is what business is in this and, above all, to whom. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-03-01-142	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm very sorry for you, because you forced yourself into a party whose leader... and, by the way, the entire left who controls it, if it's a lie, then he really should be placed on top of the statue, and you represent this party. And now you're connected to the terrible idea that says from the left, you say to Ferenc Gyurcsány and the others that the worse for people, the sooner and faster you'll be on the government. It's a shame what you're doing! What they do is a disgrace because they risk human lives, both lives and health. It's a shame what you're doing, because you're anti-vaccination, and you're constantly being bullied by doctors, researchers, and everyone who knows this area. By the way, you will present a general practitioner who will be bravely competing with those who are researchers, if any, in any other field, and who will say what is not allowed and what is allowed. And what you've been lying to me about, Congresswoman, I'm sorry. Listen to me. [[14.20]] Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine 5 million 435 thousand, Moderna 872 thousand, AstraZeneca 3 million 270 thousand, Janssen 4 million 360 thousand, CureVac 250 thousand, EU total 14 million 187 thousand. From the East: Sputnik 1 million, Sinopharm 2.5 million, total 3.5 million. If we add all this up to the Western vaccines, which, by the way, multiplys to the East, 17 million 687 thousand vaccines have been ordered by the country for that number. Then don't lie to me about giving up on anything. Yeah, well, the one you're supposed to put out in December is a long way away, because right now, you have to save lives that you don't want. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-01-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Anett. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We're not anti-vaccination. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Yes, you are.]] Personally, I am not, and I think it would be best if we achieved the greatest vaccination as quickly as possible, which would be enough to control the epidemic. In this, I believe that there is no debate between us, at least from your outraged response, I'm guessing that. However, if your claim that we did not order more from the Modern is that we ordered half of the previous round because the Chinese were more worth it, then I will raise something for you here in this speech. If you claim, which is clearly not true in terms of world market prices, that the Chinese vaccine is a more economical number, then this is the vaccine that, Mr. Secretary of State, the Chinese have admitted to not testing over the age of 60, but that is what our pensioners are getting. If I accept your position that this is more worthwhile for our country, I ask the question: have we agreed that our pensioners should be the third-round test subjects? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-03-01-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State for a minute's rejoinder, please.
u2021-03-01-147	Congresswoman, you've been pissing me off. You've been lying to me. He was pissed because he said the Chinese vaccine wasn't worth anything over the age of 60. [[Anett's intruding.]] That's what he says. So he pisses people off and, by the way, supports the left-wing thinking of saying that if people do not inoculate themselves, it will be Orban's fault; if you undermine people's willingness to inoculate themselves, the Orbáns will have to bear the political consequences. That's what you do now, Congresswoman, and you don't want to save lives. If someone is starving now, they should be given food immediately, if someone is thirsty, they should be given drinks immediately, not in December. And now you're campaigning for those in trouble not to get a vaccine, die as many as possible, and in December there will be something. This is an outrage, honourable Member, and this is the anti-vaccination, anti-vaccination, anti-Hungarianism that you are doing together with DK and the whole left! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not our fault that you don't understand! Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Test, PISA test!]]
u2021-03-01-148	Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Because of his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, you accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-03-01-149	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2021-03-01-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How do people live in Hungary today? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of the Prime Minister's absence, he appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond. Congresswoman tells me that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-151	Thank you. Dear Minister, I was finally able to get KSH to publish the data on the median wages two weeks ago, after many years. Knowing the data, it is clear why these data were hidden, since the median wage shows much better the real income and living conditions in Hungary. The income below the median wage is equal to the income above the median wage, while the average wage is raised to the high average wage of the few, so that up to 70-80 percent of society can live under the average wage. In terms of the median wage, we are in very bad shape. The median wage remained below 80% of the average wage in 2019 and 2020. In 2019 it did not reach 200,000 forints, and it also showed very large dispersions per sector. The least they got were the workers at the accommodation and guesthouses, including construction workers, only 130 thousand forints. I think everyone has to decide what this 130 thousand forints will be enough for. In 2020, it is true that the median wage has increased, but this is only due to the fact that the coronal virus epidemic has forced a single, higher amount of wage increases for healthcare workers in November. If you look at the median wage further, the overall picture is even sadder, because the lower earnings of companies less than five and the lower earnings of part-time employees are not included in the statistics, so the real median and the real average wage are also lower than that published by the HCSO. Minister, I would like to get an answer to your support for the LMP's wage support proposals and when the real median and average wage will be available, including the wages and part-time workers of companies smaller than five.
u2021-03-01-152	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer from Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to note that the Hungarian Statistical Office uses the same accounting elements and methodologies as all the countries of the European Union by Eurostat. So we are in the system of Eurostat, which is the logical consequence of our accession to the EU, which is why we issue or publish data. The Central Statistical Office renewed its collection of earnings statistics in 2019. The source of the monthly earnings information is the contributions of the National Tax and Customs Office, and the data received from the Hungarian Treasury in respect of budgetary bodies. The use of data from administrative data sources significantly reduces the reporting burden by providing continuously expanding comparative data. In the publications of the HCSO, the main indicator remains gross and net average earnings and the scope is this type of comparison time series for businesses with at least five employees, fiscal and non-profit organisations and for long-term comparative time series. The government's goal remains to increase the actions in Hungary while preserving jobs. The increase in wages, in addition to the large increase in minimum mandatory wages, was also stimulated by the reduction of the employer's tax burden. The six-year wage agreement has so far fulfilled its expectations, as domestic actions have increased by around 50% since 2016 with the increases made. The surveyed proportion of the Hungarian median wage, to which the representative, compared to the average wage, rose from around 75% in 2010 to almost 80 percent, which shows a steady increase in the wages of the smaller earners. Please accept my reply, Congresswoman. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-01-154	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. In return, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-155	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to three points, first of all Eurostat data, Minister. According to Eurostat data, the median wage in Hungary in 2019 was below HUF 160,000, compared to what KSH published, it was 194 or 195 thousand net. They're very different, and they're both very scattered. You have to see, you often refer to Eurostat, and I would like to suggest to you that you take a better look at it. The other issue is the number of part-time workers. It doesn't matter how much the number of people working part - time has increased and how much it doesn't matter. At the end of last year, my colleagues found this, too, talking about 900,000, while the Prime Minister here was talking about 200,000. What's the true number? The third is wage support. At the end of last year, according to your data, a wage support framework of HUF 23 billion was established. [[14.30]] Of this, only HUF 7 billion was paid. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And now I don't have time to list what's going on and how much money's been spent.
u2021-03-01-156	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You're actually having an argument with Eurostat through KSH or KSH. I'm afraid I can't help that. I can only provide you with the data that you may know, the data published, and I can safely say that there has been a significant wage increase since 2016. I would like to point out that perhaps what hurts you is that we have been able to agree with employers and employees; we have concluded a six-year pay-receiving programme, which is why we are progressing. In recent years, therefore, actions have increased significantly. And as for your comment on the wages of smaller earners, the government never interferes with minimum wage negotiations. Employers and workers agree at the end of the year. If they can't settle, then the government will enter. Fortunately, this has not been the case in recent years. Let us leave this to the social partners: employers and workers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-01-158	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány and Timea Szabó, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is going on? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to wait for the Prime Minister to be present, and to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-159	Mr President, on this issue, we are waiting for the Prime Minister's personal response.
u2021-03-01-160	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Congressman, and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. And it's your turn again. Congressman Sándor Burány, the representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. I would like to inform you once again that because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. [[Sándor Burány nodds.]] I am pleased to note that the Member accepts the person who is responding. [[Mihály Varga: Only the ox is consistent.]] Accordingly, Mr Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, [[Miklós Soltész: Is that the first question? What's going on? The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, If you don't understand something, I'll be happy to explain it in a break, but right now, be nice, listen to me for a second, okay?
u2021-03-01-162	Mr. Secretary. Mr Secretary of State, Mr Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-163	Thank you, Mr. President. A few weeks ago, I asked Minister Gergely Gulyás about the reason why teachers are being forced to fight administratively in order to acknowledge the Covid infection as an accident at work, to obtain 100 percent of the sick, which is virtually an impossible mission. Then, a few weeks ago, Minister, you gave me the answer here, in front of Parliament's public opinion, that the government is working to remove these administrative barriers, and that teachers who are exposed in primary schools to a large number of Covid infections, if this infection is caught, can get 100 percent of the sick without any administrative, bureaucratic maze. I could ask Zoltán Kovács: but did it work? But we all know the answer in this case: no, it didn't work. It is a bureaucratic struggle, which is virtually impossible for teachers now, to pass through the maze and receive this 100 percent allowance in months' time. While, in fact, the Teachers' Union ordered a survey that, in addition to other things, revealed that among teachers, the percentage of people infected reaches 20 percent, which is a very high number. So I ask the Deputy Prime Minister: has your position changed? They want to make it worthwhile so that the promised 100 percent of the sick money can be paid to the teachers. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-03-01-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I take the words of Minister Gergely Gulyás as a guide on this issue, given that this area does not belong to me. The government will monitor and monitor the extent to which infections occur in social groups or sectors. We are also constantly looking at the possibility of extending our sick system to this type of extension. I must therefore say to you that I can confirm the Minister's reply on this issue. We will therefore continue to look at the possibility of paying these types of aid in a more accessible, less bureaucratic system. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-01-166	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-167	Thank you for the floor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I am saddened to say that after a few weeks we were in the same place, as before. The government is still looking at it, and if it continues to do so, it is expected that in a year's time it will continue to look at the possibility for teachers to have this opportunity while they need it now. But okay, then let's not ask that question. I see that we are not going to get an answer today in case the answer to another question is positive. If that is the case, would the government be willing, as suggested, to advance the vaccination plan to at least give them the help to get the vaccine that will give them the protection they have missed so far? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-03-01-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Deputy Prime Minister is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, the government wants to examine every single issue that helps to protect against the epidemic, so it must also be investigated. I would also like to inform the Member of the good news that the quantities committed by the government are multiples of what the country's adult population needs. By the way, how vaccinations take place in social groups or sectors should be entrusted to professionals, as they know better than we. I would also like to stress that there are areas where, say, people with chronic diseases have been given the vaccine and vaccination even in younger age groups before the older age group. I think we should leave this to the professionals. As you know, GPs get these application lists. I'm also encouraging everyone to fill this out if they haven't done it yet, and that's why they're calling in citizens for vaccination. Let us trust in their expertise. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-03-01-170	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: who and for what purpose will pay the maintenance fee to Csaba Czeglédy? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Pál Völner has given him the right to reply. [[Dr. Gyula Budai nodds.]] Thank you very much for indicating, Mr President, that you accept the person who is responding. Congressman Gyula Budai has the floor. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Tomorrow, before the Kecskemét Tribunal, Csaba Czeglédy and his associates will continue to be prosecuted for a budget fraud of around HUF 6 billion, which, in my view, is very bumpy, as the defendants and the defenders are playing for time. Everyone remembers that Ferenc Gyurcsány's family lawyer, Human Operator Zrt. as a leader, through a criminal organisation operated by him, he financially damaged students and pensioners by failing to pay the wages for the work they have worked for. It is outrageous that Csaba Czeglédy, who represents himself as a victim, and who advocates a conceptual trial, is still a favourite of the left-wing opposition, since he is the lawyer's office of contracts of more than HUF 150 million with the DK-led municipalities. [[14.40]] In the meantime, Altus Portfolio Kft. led by Dobrev Klára to become a Member of the European Parliament. and four times between 2016 and 2017, Csaba Czeglédy granted a loan of nearly HUF 300 million in such a way that the financial supervision of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank established that it was illegal by means of a market surveillance procedure. Given the possibility that Altus had made these loans available from EU funds in this case, I turned to OLAF, the European Union Anti-Fraud Office, and asked for the investigation of these illegal financial flows. I think that everyone has the right to know the amount of money that came to Csaba Czeglédy for the sake of the cleanliness of public life. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr President, On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State who paid alimony to Csaba Czeglédy in view of what has been said and for what purpose. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-01-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is from Secretary of State Pál Völner. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would remind you that the essence of the case in question is that Csaba Czeglédy, the favourite lawyer of the Gyurcsány party, who had already been convicted of tax evasion, has since 2011 transformed the structure of the services provided by his company, Human Operator, and at the same time Kft. into Zrt., to avoid paying public burdens on the service. As you mentioned earlier, the criminal trial may continue on 2 March, and Csaba Czeglédy's criminal record will be discussed in 166 pages of indictment; unfortunately, the proceedings have been delayed. However, we have some bad news for Ferenc Gyurcsány's tax fraud lawyer: In 2019 a regulation was put in place under which criminal proceedings in which the indictment took place prior to the registration of the candidate for a representative, or for which the candidate for a representative is subject to a compulsory measure, the right of immunity does not constitute an obstacle to the conduct of criminal proceedings. So if they try to trick us in the 2022 elections, as in the elections to the European Parliament, then this will not succeed. Ladies and gentlemen, The question remains, of course, why Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party are so protective of such a lawyer. Where's the more than 6 billion forints of public money gone? After all, the victims were not compensated for almost anything, and the state had to. Why have there been tens of millions of friendly loan agreements between the Czeglédys and the Gyurcsány companies signed by Klára Dobrev, whose origin is also unclear? If people have been damaged, perhaps the damage should be compensated, but we know that they didn't do it before 2010, we can think of János Zuschlag, Miklós Hagyó, Gábor Simon, Klára Dobrev's embarrassing cases, the Sukoro case, and I can continue to do it the next minute. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-01-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Gyula Budai has a one-minute reply, please.
u2021-03-01-175	There is nothing surprising about this, and there is nothing new under the sun, as the Democratic Coalition intends to launch Csaba Czeglédy in Szombathely in the pre-election that opposition parties intend to hold. I believe that it is both legally and morally of grave concern that, in addition to the rule of law, left-wing parties who break a spear daily protect an indicted criminal lawyer suspended from a barrister's membership, while the DK municipalities carry out a million-dollar assignment. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] But it seems that dubious matters do not matter if their leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, asks them to continue to warm up the tax fraud lawyer. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-01-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-177	Thank you for the floor. I see that not only Ferenc Gyurcsány protects Csaba Czeglédy, but also the members of the Jobbik faction. Slowly, the Democratic Coalition, which could be an alliance of demagogic communists, will surely bring them into its ranks. So if you think of the abuse, whether it is the Vecsési account factory or the personal companies of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the Nomentana Kft. that never existed, with the help of which, by means of authentic acts, you acquired state property, or even Fittelina Kft., which is famous for VAT claims in connection with the Villa in Szemlő-hegy. These are, of course, obsolete cases, so they have not reached a decisive stage in criminal proceedings. These all indicate the path that the Hungarian left has walked and walks, and if we think about the big money that the municipalities have given them, we will inevitably remember the expression: Red octopus and omerta. You have to buy the silence of those who know about the sins of the past. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-03-01-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: why are applications for the development of livestock farms unavailable to the vast majority of farmers? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Sándor Farkas appointed Minister of State to respond. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[Zoltán Balczó nodds.]] Thank you very much. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman Zoltán Balczó has the floor, please.
u2021-03-01-179	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, Last year, the livestock farming part of those living in agriculture was looking forward to a call for proposals for the development of livestock farms. At the time of the call, the farming community was shocked to see the minimum amounts to be achieved by the projects in the tender: for poultry and pigs, the lower limit was HUF 200 million, and for cattle, sheep and goats, the lower limit was 100 million. Thus, 90-95 percent of livestock farmers were excluded from these applications, which, by the way, amounted to HUF 50 billion, which was even increased during the process, i.e. with this tender, the government supported practically only large farms. Following such precedents, livestock farmers were very pleased to have the opportunity to apply for a budget of HUF 30 billion for small farms from May this year. Now the draft call for proposals is at the disposal of the stakeholders, but they see that it again does not allow small farmers to have important development opportunities which they would otherwise require. The main deficiency is that they do not support the renovation of agricultural buildings. The project only lists construction and expansion in all the target areas, not the renovation of the buildings, while it is a major problem for many people that they have a 10-20-30-year-old building in 50-80-percent condition and cannot renovate it. So I'm also asking the Secretary of State that he doesn't think it's appropriate to extend it to renovation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This tender. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-01-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Sándor Farkas, Deputy Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-181	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In the framework of the rural development programme, calls for the development of livestock farms are available to the farmers concerned. Farmers meeting eligibility criteria can apply for aid at two speeds, i.e. on the basis of two distinct calls for proposals, never because of higher national co-financing by the government! I don't think you've seen it. You'll have to accept that, Your Honour. In the autumn of 2020 there was a first call for support for the development of livestock farms with a budget of HUF 50 billion, in which there was indeed a call for proposals for projects of greater value with longer implementation times, and in which the participants in each sub-sector could submit applications with certain minimum support amounts. From the previous HUF 500 million to HUF 2 billion, the aid amount available at the aid intensity of 50 per cent was increased to enable strategic investments to be made. In the second round, a new call for proposals will be opened with a budget of HUF 30 billion for projects with a lower value, with support for the renewal of livestock farms. The new call, as before, has been agreed with all the relevant professional organisations so that the keepers of animals can get to know the needs of the keepers and adapt the conditions to them. [[14.50]] After the launch of the new application, this new application is expected in one month: a maximum of HUF 100 million for poultry, pig farms, cattle farms, HUF 50 million for sheep and goat farms and other livestock farms. I'd like to answer your question here. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Both calls offer the possibility of building and modernising livestock farm buildings and buildings. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-183	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Deputy Minister, Indeed, I do not deny that, thanks to the EU, there were huge amounts and availability, just as you did not deny that the last year's tender was practically an opportunity for large farmers. What I'm getting is indirectly coming from an application consultant, and I think it's kind of a problem if he can't read that this could be a renovation. It is stated in the material given by it that enlargement and construction are included; but by development, do you mean renovation? So you will accept that this proposal should be clarified, because very many of the smaller farmers do not know the substance of this proposal without renovation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] use this tender. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-01-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State.
u2021-03-01-185	Thank you very much. I think, honourable Member, that you should discuss this issue in a significant part with the petitioner and the application editor, because it is a matter of interpretation. However, I would like to say that there is a huge interest in the publication announced in 2020. Speaking of big ones: 749 requests received some 329 billion forints. This also shows the growing capacity, efficiency and, not least, the ability to develop in the agricultural sector. On this basis, it can be said that the government is increasing the amount of aid that can be used for livestock production to an unprecedented extent, and I may even mention to you, as regards the future, that the Hungarian Government has made a historic decision when it decided to increase the rate of national co-financing that can be granted in the European Union from 17.5 percent to 80 percent. With this decision, the following HUF 7537 billion from domestic resources between the years 21 and 27 through the common EU agricultural policy: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] can be used for rural development. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-186	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: what has been achieved from the climate and nature conservation action plan announced 1 year ago? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, was entitled to answer. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, The protection of the environment and the fight against climate change are important for the Hungarian people. As the National Creed of our Fundamental Law states, the Carpathian Basin is given by nature and man... [[Mihály Varga, standing up from his seat, is heading for the back lines, where he's following with Bence Tordai's phone.]] apologies, the protection of natural and man-made values, the care of our natural resources and the protection of our natural resources are of paramount importance. As Article P puts it, our soils, forests, water resources, biodiversity, native plants and animal species are our national common heritage, which we must protect. In line with the spirit of the Fundamental Law, a year ago the climate and nature conservation action plan was created, which contains eight concrete measures, but one of the most important objectives is to ensure that by 2030 the energy produced in Hungary is 90% carbon-free. In addition, it is extremely important to eliminate illegal landfills, to clean up rivers, to plant trees, to multiply the capacity of solar power plants and to introduce green government bonds. There are two important messages from the climate protection action plan: on the one hand, electricity generation comes from renewable and nuclear energy, and the other important message is that the costs of the climate-neutral economy should not be paid by Hungarian families, not by Hungarian people, but by climate-destructors, large companies and polluting countries. With respect, I would like to ask Mr Deputy Minister what has been achieved in one year from the climate and nature conservation action plan.
u2021-03-01-188	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Before I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, I respectfully ask Mr Bence Tordai not to interfere with the outcome of the Deputy Prime Minister. [[To interrupt Bence Tordai:]] I saw, Congressman, that, in fact, you placed your camera in the face of the Deputy Prime Minister. So I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, Deputy Minister.
u2021-03-01-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are convinced that action can and must be taken against climate change, not with words. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The climate and nature conservation action plan was adopted by the government a year ago, with the aim of doing everything we can to enable our children and grandchildren to inherit the environmental values of our country in better condition. In spite of the difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic, we will implement it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The only thing I would like to point out now is that one of the important objectives of the action plan is to eliminate illegal landfills and to clean up the affected areas. In the summer of 2020 we have already started this process, the, let's clear the country! In the framework of a project entitled, nearly 9,000 tonnes of illegal waste have been reported by our colleagues so far. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and While we are doing this and while we are taking real action against littering and garbage, Gergely Christmas in Budapest takes 25 percent of the public dumpsters. It also shows that the left is only interested in green policy as long as Facebook posts can be made online and are not willing to take real action. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This is also supported by the fact that one of the explicit aims of the legislation on the amendment of certain laws on energy and waste management adopted by the Parliament and which are now announced is to reduce illegal waste and litter. This legislation was not voted for by the left either. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr Deputy Minister, thank you very much for your reply. What is very important to point out is that the aim is not to create a climate crisis, but to take into account sustainability considerations, to think about local solutions, as this action plan is thinking about, because what you are doing determines the lives and living conditions of the future generation. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-01-192	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for confirming that the government is actually acting, while others are just talking about climate protection, with zero action. This is what Gergely Christmas does in the capital, and this is what all the representatives of the Christmas Party do. On the other hand, we have offered and asked for cooperation on this subject, but the opposition, the left, has no reason to help and support the government's work in this regard, beyond the big words. The left should finally understand that the climate must not be protected by Facebook posts, by declaring a climate crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Almost a year ago, last spring, the Parliament adopted the Climate Protection Act and the resolution on non-deferent tasks arising from climate change. This proposal was submitted by the left, but it did not vote for either. This shows what they think about this subject. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. It is now possible for me to address Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga on a case-by-case basis; I think he would like to do so in connection with the recent incident. It's a one-minute window, Deputy Prime Minister. [[15.00]]
u2021-03-01-195	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The unusual situation is that one Member prevents the other Member from going back to his seat. Congressman Bence of Torda prevented me from coming back to my seat and sitting down here. I'm just going to point out that he was using an image-recording device in the process. I would like to ask the President to have this discussed and examined by the House Committee. I think there's a limit to everything. The Member has crossed a line that I do not think is right; the work of each other, the vote, the debate, the participation in speeches must not be prevented, and I do not think it can be prevented. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-03-01-196	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Congressman Bence of Tordai came forward in a one-minute order of business. There you go, but order of business.
u2021-03-01-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In contrast to the Minister's statement, the last thing I wanted to do was to help him do his job in order to carry out the task that he had undertaken: II, III. representation of district residents. Accession to a bill as a national... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2021-03-01-198	It's not a matter of order! I'm sorry, you're personally involved. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] I was able to give you the opportunity to do so. You started it, but you didn't. [[Michael Varga is leaving the Chamber.]] I would like to ask you to let the Minister go free now, because the rules on Members of Parliament also apply to us in the corridor. Thank you very much. [[Bence of Turdai is leaving the Chamber. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]] We will be right back, ladies and gentlemen, if the scenario is at my disposal. [[Continued intervention in opposition ranks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of today's agenda. As soon as I get the script, we'll start speaking right after the agenda. I'm gonna need your patience. I ask for a one-minute technical break from all of you, and it will be Congressman Philip Erik's turn. [[Break: 15.02-15.04]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Congressman Philip Erik has applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, From the point of view of animal protection, we have reached a moment of priority, because those who heard Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's usual radio interview in Kossuth Radio last week heard the following, the Prime Minister said: if we protect animals, we protect ourselves, because what kind of person hurts another being of his own volition? This is of paramount importance because there was no such declaration on the part of the Prime Minister in relation to animal protection. Perhaps we can also say that the Prime Minister has ignored animal protection in the last ten years. In this radio interview, however, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also clearly pointed out the fact that many international studies have demonstrated that there are close links and close links between animal cruelty and violence against later individuals and the sense of security of society. Last week, the Animal Protection Centre of the University of Veterinary Medicine organized a seminar that I had the opportunity to look into and listen to online. Here renowned ethologists, criminologists and animal welfare professionals spoke and clearly indicated and emphasized that there are very close links between animal torture and subsequent violent crimes. A renowned etologist also pointed out that the community, the Hungarian society, has a huge responsibility in the development of the animal protection environment. A criminal psychologist, a renowned criminologist, suggested that criminals who commit animal cruelty have a high degree of behavioral and personality disorder. In response to the Prime Minister's words, the findings of international studies, I think that we should now not only deal with animal protection in words, but also show some pretty powerful actions. In my speech after the agenda last week, I tried to raise my voice in favour of the establishment of the animal police, but I would also like to introduce in Hungarian society, the Hungarian legal system, an innovation that already exists in international law and foreign states, in connection with my speech, which would, on the one hand, reduce the crime of animal cruelty and animal abuse and strengthen the sense of security of our Hungarian society. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have reached the time when Hungary needs to set up a database in which animal torturers would be listed by name, address and profile picture. The main reason for this would be that a large number of animal torturers go into repeater or repeater status, as they continue to commit animal cruelty cases later on, and it would be very important for them to be able to pay more attention to the actions and actions of these individuals when registering them in the database. This database could be monitored by the police, various animal welfare organisations, shelters, to prevent such persons from committing or adopting new acts or even adopting animals, or to monitor compliance with the rules when disabling animals or taking in new animals. This is not from the devil, as many international examples show that there are databases in other countries. I would like to point out that there are records of animal torturers in several Member States of the United States. One of the best, and I think that the most functioning such register exists in the state of Tennessee, which contains information that is accessible to anyone. At the same time, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Hungarian Animal Protection News Portal has interviewed the San Antonio Animal Police, and officials in the Animal Police have declared that it is necessary, on the one hand, to set up such an organisation and, on the other hand, to set up such a database, because there is a close link between animal torture cases and violence against a later person. Thank you very much for your attention. [[15.10]]
u2021-03-01-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has also applied for a post-meeting address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-01-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, March 1st was the day of many anniversaries in history, a lot of historical events took place on this day. The marriage of Ferenc Rákóczi I and Ilona Zrínyi, Napoleon returned from exile from the island of Elba on this day, the National Assembly elected Miklós Horthy as governor, or the scheduled bus transport started in Budapest on this day. But there is also a sadder anniversary on the 1st of March: it was drawn on 1st of March 2008, i.e. 13 years ago the coins of 1 and 2 forints in Hungary. Why do I say this is a sad event? Because the withdrawal of coins, the withdrawal of low-value coins, always shows the failure of a country's economic policy. In 99 the penny, the change was withdrawn, and in 2008 we reached the forint in its 62-year-old history from 1946, that the coins that were ever worth disappeared from their physical reality. In the field of 24 countries, in 56 years Hungary has completed 55-times the frontline countries with higher inflation, only Portugal, Greece, Korea, South Africa and India. Between 1990 and 2015, consumer prices increased 14 times on average in Hungary. What cost 1-2 forints in the late '60s? The ice cream was 50 pennies per dumpling today, 300. The creamy was 1.50, the French creamy was 2 forints, today 300. The mignon was 1 forint, today 450. The Cheap Library series was 2 forints, today 1500 forints. The library membership was 2 forints a year. A daily newspaper was 60 pennies, today it was 145 forints. The phone call was 60 cents a day. In the Amusement Park, almost everything was 1 forint, the roller coaster cost 2 forints, today 2800 forints. The museums and zoos were 1-2 forints, today at least 1,000 forints. The pretzels were 1 forint, today 240 forints. The salami bun was two forints. The price of Kalmopyrin, Algopyrin was 2 forints, today 1800 forints. In the '70s, they gave me a liter of gas for 3 forints, today it's 406. The ice cream was 1 forint, so you could call for 1 forint for 3 minutes. For 2 forints you could go to the movies, today 1700 forints. For 2,50, the beach was open all day, today a beach entrance is at least 2,600 forints. Forty pennies was a bun or a bun, today 28 forints. One forint was the giant bouquet, today 229 forints. 2 forints was a bag of pickles, today 290 forints. 1 forint was the tram ticket, 1.50 is the bus ticket, and today no one gets away with the line price under 300 forints. Between 1971 and 1985, the price of newspapers was 1 HUF 50 penny, today it was 145 HUF. The Express chocolate was 1.80, the Squirrel and Sports slice was 2 forints, the spreadable cheese, the box was 2.50, and today it is 400. In 1960, a gross average salary of HUF 1575 was reportedly 400,000 today. But if I just compare the change to the price of ice cream, which rose from 50 pennies to 300 forints, the price increase of 600 times is not really compensated by the 254-fold increase in wages. When I started elementary school, there was 50 pennies a dumpling of ice cream when I graduated 250 forints. That's where we measured inflation. Inflation is naturally present in all countries, but it does not matter whether it is a natural component of the market or the result of an economic policy that has been constantly misplaced. No matter how many studies I read about the change in the value of our currency from 1946 to today, each one is filled with explanations independent of the leaders of our country, who would recognize it, especially in Hungary, which is a country without consequences for certain circles, that they have made a mistake. Today's heirs and even those who are still active today are still trying to tell our country how to run the country. Even today, all those who have turned our money upside down still share the senses, are smarter than anyone else, and if you ask him what good you have done for the people of our country, it is usually quiet. So the world of 1-2 forints is gone, the world of millions is today, but I want us politicians in Parliament to strive for the currency of our country to once regain its old light. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-01-202	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking after the next speaker's agenda, Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2021-03-01-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, After the agenda, I will talk again about the immediate problems of my narrower country, Pécs, Baranya. Obviously, we all know exactly where we live in the country, how much work it takes to preserve the healthy environment of our residential area, our residential area, and we also know how many challenges we face in the face of environmental damage, environmental destruction, which is already taking place and which is threatening the risk. We also know that local authorities have relatively limited resources in this area, so we can say that municipalities, cities, have a responsibility to combat environmental destruction, but this will never be effectively implemented by a strong government without strong state aid. What we can say is that if we look at environmental risks affecting Pécs and Baranya, examples of environmental destruction, it would be a very subtle expression that the government is not a partner in helping the city, helping Pécs, helping Komlo and the region, but specifically saying that the government is repeatedly ignoring the interests of the locals and ignoring the declared will of the locals. Unfortunately, we also have to say that both Péter Hoppál and Csaba Nagy, the two pro-government representatives of the affected region, which are affected by environmental risks, are repeatedly betraying the region with their votes, voting against the interest of the region and its intention, or are not doing what could be done. We can also say that it is also difficult to take action against environmental risks because the government has also developed a quite chaotic situation in this area. We have all seen that last year there was a State Secretary for Sustainability, and there was also a State Secretary for Energy and Energy, and we can say that both State Secretariats were led by one expert. Now, for some reason, the government has merged these two State Secretariats and appointed an external secretary of state to lead them, who is not an expert at all in these areas, from the Ministry of Justice. So we can't even say specifically who is responsible for sustainability in words, for the government that stands out in favour of creation protection in terms of sustainability issues. So it can be said that, let alone that a ministry has not been dedicated to an extremely important, perhaps the most important challenge of today's times is the government, but it has also abolished or consolidated the already existing State Secretariat. We can't even say who is currently the specialist in the government, who is the policyr, who is the State Secretary, who is responsible for the issues of nuclear safety or the issue of the disposal of radioactive waste, and with whom at least one debate can be held or to whom motions can be made. So far, it was Peter Kaderják who was competent in these matters, with whom at least policy debates could be held, and now such a man is not even in the ranks of the government. We need to talk about the fact that this is one of the most serious challenges facing the region of Pécs, Baranya. We know, on the one hand, that, in connection with the shocking environmental destruction of the former uranium mining activity, a never-ending regeneration process, a recultivation task, which requires resources in the order of 100 million per year, will never be over. On the other hand, there is a very serious risk, both environmental, technical and economic, that the government, ignoring the declared will of the region, wants to create a nuclear cemetery about eight kilometres from the western borders of Pécs, in the area of Boda. The process started in 2013. The city of Pécs was practically not involved, similarly the city of Szentlőrinc was not involved as a partner, and the government and decision-makers simply ignore the interests of the region, ignoring the clearly stated intentions of the region. In 2019 we put a motion on the table of the municipality of Pécs County, and the board accepted by an overwhelming majority that Pécs would not tolerate an object a few kilometres from its borders. We can also say that there is no example in the world that such a reservoir would be so close to such a metropolitan agglomeration for high-activity radioactive waste. The Head of the National Atomic Energy Office and its Director-General have also acknowledged that decision-makers are aware of the serious social problems and economic problems that this poses, and how strong social resistance is, and they will convey this to unnamed real decision-makers. Despite this, last year, the majority of the Parliament's pro-government members again extended the national programme for the management of radioactive waste, which states that there will be such an underground geological storage, i.e. a nuclear cemetery, and continues to consider only the case of the Bodai Claystone Formation as a possible location. [[15.20]] We can say that the government and the members of the Parliament's pro-government have sent clear messages to Pécs and Baranya County, betrayed, ignored the interests of the people there, ignored the future of the youth living there. What we can say is that we will do everything in the next year in order to review this decision, but as a clear promise, if the change of government takes place next spring, there will certainly not be a nuclear cemetery in Boda. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-01-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Tibor Nunkovics has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would now like to talk about Hungarian villages, and to highlight one very serious problem, which has been affecting Hungarian small settlements for several decades. This is nothing more than emigration, and this is also a very important, very cardinal reason, namely the question of roads and transport. In most Hungarian small settlements, we can see that a very serious migration affects these villages, a lot of young and middle-aged people have gone abroad, unfortunately, this trend continues today as well. There is obviously an exception to the agglomeration villages, the neighbourhood of the capital, the villages located in the area of the capital and in the vicinity of the metropolitan areas, because there is a retention force here because of the greater job opportunities, but unfortunately, this trend is still taking place in small settlements. By the way, most of these small settlements and villages have left Hungary over the past decade. To stop this process, two things need to be improved extremely quickly and decisively, and this is the state of transport and roads. In most small settlements, the main road is not owned by them, but it is under the road operator, but there is usually no money for the renovation of these settlements, since they are already able to manage from very few sources. Another issue is that this is aggravated even more by the government withdrawal in the last year due to the epidemic. By the way, we will see how the task funding will be affected by all this withdrawal, but without it, these settlements would not have money for the roads. And we all know that there are a lot of commuters in these small settlements, let's just think about those who work or go to school in neighboring or a little further cities or cities, who use these roads every day, and if these roads aren't okay, then that's another reason for young people, middle-aged people, to leave these settlements, where they're grown up, where all their memories connect them. On the one hand, therefore, it should provide the government with greater and more resources for these roads. It is no coincidence, by the way, that I will submit every year during the budgetary debate in my constituency the amendments which would affect these already isolated settlements and would otherwise be very positive if such renovations were to take place. The other cardinal issue is public transport. In the beginning, a significant part of the settlements are not connected to the railway, we are not talking about settlements near the railway; it is bus transport that is the decisive one. However, since August 20 last year, there have been changes in the timetable not only in my constituency, but I can obviously give examples from there, but also at national level there have been major changes. And I understand the government's intention to eliminate flights that were otherwise unused, but here, by the way, under the cover of the epidemic, flights that were seriously affecting local residents have been cancelled. It is much more difficult for them to go to work, get to school, and it is not only that they may have to do this with a transfer, but they are also late for themselves to join the train, another bus, and we must be honest with you that if you grow in your time of going to work or school, say, from half an hour or from an hour to double or triple, it can be very annoying. This is why I have initiated in my constituency to collect from the population the comments they have observed and experienced about the Volánbus flights, here I have received a lot of requests about the changes from small settlements, that they have been separated from the backbone lines, that they have much less opportunities to travel to larger cities, whether the elderly have a doctor or young people have to go to school, the workers have to get to work, and this must be changed. There is a need to devote resources to this, just as there is a need to devote resources to road renovations. I will make these proposals again for the next budget, and I can only hope that the members of the government who are not present will listen to this. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-03-01-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Kálló has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-207	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I will start now with a quote: in the case of business infrastructure and site development and logistics infrastructure development, priority for the deployment of industrial and service investments in brownfield areas can be reduced. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs recently announced that SK Innovation will install its second plant in Hungary in my district, Iváncsa. I would like to state here that we are not anti-industrial, we are not anti-development, but let us look at the location selection and the installation of the site. It is important to know that this factory will be built on land worth 30 golden crowns, building a factory in a settlement of 2800 people, which will employ 2,500 people. We would very much like to know how case studies have been carried out, you have examined the impact this investment will have on the region and the locality, Iváncsa, and, as I said, I have quoted the concept of the area development of Fejér county from the year 2030, which was also laid down by county politicians that brownfield investments should be supported almost always instead of greenfield investments. And why am I saying that we don't think there's been any case studies on this? If you had looked around the county, you would have noticed immediately that this factory could have been treated as a brownfield investment, that this factory could have been placed in a place where the infrastructure was already in place. If you look at the Vasmű area, the area of the Ironworks, the area of the factory has been reduced by the development of technology, but there are a lot of areas left in the factory area where this factory would have been available, and all kinds of infrastructure would have been available, I understand the fire department, the water supply or the railway supply. Instead, they want to plant this large factory on land worth 30 golden crowns. It's worth thinking about. And speaking of our common cause, the Fejér County industry, we can't just walk away from the Ironworks situation. My fellow Members, it is very difficult to speak without anger and anger when we see your testament to the Ironworks. Since September, iron workers have been paid in details and late. In an unprecedented way, the collective agreement on which trade unions and the management of the Iron Works have worked for decades has been terminated. You didn't say a stinking word, and you don't say anything now. Let's settle for a fading Facebook entry made by Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, in which he announced that he would negotiate with Liberty Steel. But, let's ask ourselves, what did you negotiate with Liberty Steel? Do you understand what Ironworks mean not only to me, not only to Dunaújváros, not only to the region, not only to Fejér County, but to the whole country? Do you know how many thousands of families are provided by Ironworks? Do you know how the Hungarian economy is affected by Vasmű? If there's a problem at Ironworks, there'll be trouble at MÁV. I often say: Ironworks ensure 15 percent of MÁV Cargo's turnover. Do you know what these numbers are? And you've been silent since September. They won't say a word about the Ironworks, and everyone has already asked for your help, through the municipality, through the management of the company. [[15.30]] You have done nothing for the Ironworks to this day. But the news, the bad news, and the storm clouds are gathering more and more. The economic security fund could easily help, and they could easily solve the problems of Ironworks in these critical times. You're not doing anything. Well, let me promise you something. If something happens in Dunaferr because of your testament, I'll be the first to go out on the street with the iron workers, and believe me, it's tough kids, they're scared of them. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-01-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs, from the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-scheduled speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Not the buns of the little, comrades, but your faces were great, said by the infinitely sophisticated culture and powerful empathy of György Marosán at the time. The fact is that I received a similar response to my interpellation last week by Secretary of State Balázs Orbán when I asked about the rural peripherals that were falling and actually sinking as Atlantis. Then the Secretary of State sent me to the countryside to observe the huge upsurge that he had been seeing over there. Well, the thing is, if God looked back, he would see not only the districts and regions of North-East Hungary, but also there, in South-West Hungary, in my narrower Patria, because there are huge problems there. I believe that for those who wear 100 million forints on their wrists or fingers in the form of a Royal Oak 20 million forint clock, each in the form of a 30 million forint Cartier bracelet or, say, seven-carat diamond rings, they do not feel this. But the reality remains reality, and the fact is that not only is this world far from the people living there, so it is Hermès, Dior, Vuitton, and who knows what kind of fancy dress-up and the world of ladies and gentlemen filling up their boudoirs is far from the people living on the periphery, but also the things that are watered from the pro-government benches, namely that the average wage in Hungary is 400 thousand forints, and that during the period of the crisis, the families were able to put aside 800 thousand forints on average during the period of the pandemic. The thing is, when they hear that in South Somogy around here, that's when the good Somogy knife opens up in people's pockets. But to be more specific about where we live in Europe, I must say that this is the region of the good 200-some of the European Union's regions, i.e. South Transdanubia, which is the tenth poorest in Europe from behind. If we subtract the Lake Balaton from this formula, i.e. from the South Transdanubian formula, we subtract, say, Paks, Pécs, the brilliant university city where I myself have studied and studied, and look at what would remain, how much less-favoured walks that the government would otherwise have to develop with complex programs, such as Barcsi or Csurgói, then we must say that what they are talking about so many times in government benches, they are visualizing, it simply does not correspond to reality. The reality is that the countryside wants to live, not to vegetate, and it's only normal wages that can make a living. We also received an answer here to wait a little while, and the golden rain will come to the countryside in the form of a HUF 7000 billion rural development resource. However, if this is distributed in the same way as they did in relation to the sources of tourism, when half a percentage of the claimants, most of the mates, received two thirds of the 300 billion-dollar resources, and one third of the 16,000 other claimants, then there will be serious problems, and the inequalities that we are experiencing there on the ground of Hungarian rigidity will increase even more. It is true that even Khrushchev once said something that we will outrun the declining West on our soaring socialist steed, and Viktor Orbán promises that we will reach the West and Austria, but the fact is that where I live, this break-off is even more pronounced. Let me get you some data on what people do there. The Institute of Economic Research has compiled its list based on KSH data. Please, my fellow Members sitting in pro-government benches, in the 77 settlements of my constituency there are 15 settlements where the average wage is less than 100 thousand forints per month. Szentborbás 97 thousand forints, Gige 95 thousand forints, Kisbajom 95 thousand forints, Kastélyosdomb 91,000 forints, Rinyakovácsi 89 thousand forints, Drávatamási 87 thousand forints per month, Rinyabesenyő 85 thousand forints, Istvándi 81 thousand forints, and below: Kökút 79 thousand forints, and hold on, Somogyaracs 76 thousand forints per month. Walking chairs are not in much better condition: Csurgó 156 thousand forints, Barcs 169 thousand forints, Nagyatád 179 thousand forints. This is not European prosperity! Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-03-01-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Róbert Dudás of the Jobbik Group has also applied for a post- Agenda address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The rural road network is in critical condition. We hear the opposite in this house many times, so I suggest to everyone, because you cannot see the rural reality of Budapest to come down to the countryside and look at what attracts many other problems. Recently, there was talk of the cardinal issue of migration in the countryside. One of these important factors for the future of the countryside, which must be addressed immediately, is the renovation of the road network, which, by the way, needs to be started by reducing the burden on the current road network. These roads are not designed for this load. Several decades ago, three or four or even five decades ago, there was no such traffic as traffic, they did not load these roads with such axle loads, and the cars at the time were not such axle loads, for example, they did not carry 40 tons of stones, driving through some settlements. It destroys roads, destroys public safety, cracks houses on the highways, and what very few people talk about is under the road network. The condition of these utilities must be protected and protected, as these cars destroy water, gas, sewage or any other service by destroying the road network. Now allow me to illustrate with a specific example what I am talking about. The renovation of highway 21 ended last year, and a four-track expressway between Hatvan and Salgótarján was established. This is a very, very important investment for the whole region, Heves and Nógrád county. I note only in parentheses that many of its stages have to be renewed, because it is dangerous, there are parts where road surfaces are even life-threatening, so they failed so well, but the investment itself is very important. The circumstances of taking stones and building materials through small settlements for these road renovations, road constructions, for example, destroyed the 13 km road stretch between Recsk-Mátraderecke and Mátraballa. In recent years as mayor, county assembly representative, I have spoken many times and many forums in order to save the roads, not simply to plan to renovate, but to prevent the destruction and destruction of roads, because this is an extremely important cardinal issue for the people who live there. Last year, I also submitted a budget amendment in order to renovate this road network. Unfortunately, then, with the powerful help of the pro-government representatives, this budget amendment was swept off the table. The road between Bátonyterenye and Ozd is under design, but the last plan is to only renovate the road, but on the same route they plan to transport stone and all kinds of building materials for road construction. This road won't hold. Neither the road will be able to bear it, nor the inhabitants will tolerate it; they will not tolerate it, and they will start collecting signatures, I add, with my powerful help, and I will take the lead of this, because the rural life will be ruined, the rural houses will be ruined, the road that otherwise means life for the people living there will be ruined. [[15.40]] So it is a key issue for the countryside and for the rural future that the settlement remains viable. The road network has a very important role to play. It's important to keep it running. The fact that the road network remains operational is, on the one hand, extremely important, because the investment will not come, only if it is able to approach the locality in the right quality and time, from the perspective of the entrepreneur and tourism, so that it is able to reach the settlements in an appropriate capacity, otherwise we are talking about Mátra. After renovations and relief, we can guarantee the future of the countryside both economically and in tourism. The petition and the topic in which I have spoken many times in the last eight to ten years is that last week, I was pleased to hear that this was a pro-government issue, rather than that the transport of stone should be carried to the railway. I have just said that this is a key issue for the countryside; I would like to clarify: it is not a key issue, it is a vital issue, and thousands of people are waiting for a solution locally in Mátra. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-01-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Also from the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-213	Mr President, Dear House, We could have had a very surreal experience today, for those who wanted to get tired of the People's Welfare Committee meeting and, where appropriate, defend their proposal which, in my view and where appropriate in a normal country, could be a national minimum. It is well known that we are faced with any kind of government propaganda, but the unfortunate fact remains: Hungary is in a demographic gap, the number of live births unfortunately shows a steady decline in recent decades, and although Fidesz-KDNP will not advertise this on billboards, the growth that they believe exists and is supposed to have in the number of live births does not even reach the 2016 level. So what we see is that our society is constantly ageing, fewer and fewer people are born, many of our countrymen are dying for regrettable and well-known reasons, and we do not see the trend turnaround that could be seen in demographic terms. Therefore, in a normal country, any incentive and motivational step should be taken in favour of a total pro-party consensus, and I am amazed to find that the Government of Hungary is putting a completely pointless age limit in this scheme for many baby-var loans in Hungary, forcing women into a situation where they are 40 or 41 years of age, they are excluded from the possibility of using the aid. This is done by the government in a climate where the Ratkó-grandsons, the last of the populous generations, are on the run from the time when a child can be physically taken on. So more than 60,000 women are being excluded from this solution, from this support, I am speaking for them now. I am not saying that all 60,000 people are thinking about having children in the coming months, but I do say that we have a duty to support those who have such a decision. We have now come to the point that the Hungarian government, which advertises this baby shower construction on billboards, is setting it up as a great success, and it excludes Hungarian ladies and women from this opportunity by its own decision. For this reason, I drew up a proposal following the filming of the study book "Our Future for the Child," which was also born in KDNP and civil demographers' workshops, and the essence of which is to remove this pointless age limit from the launch of the baby shower. I submitted this in the form of a proposal for a resolution, and, as usual, the debate on a professional proposal does not begin immediately before Parliament, but before the committee responsible for the subject, but in this case, the majority of the governing parties did not want to come to work, they did not attend today's committee meeting. In this way, we have come to the conclusion that people who advertise this construction on billboards were not willing to discuss not to exclude it, to exclude tens of thousands of Hungarians from this opportunity, and not to make a woman who is a child-bearing dilemma decide precisely for this reason in the direction she did not want. We claim that the birth of every desired Hungarian child should be supported, not by violence, not by persuasion, but by motivational means and positive benefits. But we also claim that it is unworthy of the oath of a representative who beats himself up in front of giant posters that he has done something, excludes tens of thousands of his compatriots from this opportunity, and then does not appear at his workplace to argue at all on a substantive professional proposal. We will go on, of course, and we will not leave this proposal at all, nor will we let these Hungarian ladies get out of the beneficiaries. But in the same way we could talk about the need to double the family allowance, of course on a family card, an intermediary that can only buy basic food, child-rearing products, but not alcohol, recreational drugs, or gambling. And in the same way, we could move on to reducing the brutal VAT content of child-rearing articles. We have about ten proposals on similar demographic issues, which have in common the fact that all civilians, all demographic experts and many openly pro-government experts agree with these proposals. We will submit these in a row and expect the government's confession, then it turns out that the self campaign before the billboards is important or the future of Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-03-01-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Also, from the Jobbik Group, Commissioner Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-03-01-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone on Lake Balaton. You've begun the sale of Lake Balaton unthinkably and irreversibly, we could say that you're selling it off. The process has been going on for 11 years. Nothing is important to you but the filling of buddies and stromans, and thus the isolation of the shores from Hungarians. It is not important for you what will happen in future generations, that Hungarian people will have access to Lake Balaton, you need everything. The Bahart fortune is simply being acquired and sold to themselves. And with these funds, they're even giving these guys subsidies. What happens in Balatonszemes and Balatonboglár? The campsites have been sold quite simply. The Csopak port didn't get away with this process either. And what can we see? There's money for seaports. And with these, the beaches are threatened, the beaches on which Hungarian families and Hungarian people go on vacation and relax. Nothing is sacred to you, this is seen from the measures taken to deal with the business around the sailing ports. Let's not talk about the fact that the Club Aliga in Balatonvilágos simply wants to take away public parks and public areas with a government decision, thereby preventing people from getting down to Lake Balaton. Then, when my opposition colleagues and I raise our voices and say that you will take the Balaton away from the Hungarian people, we will get back to the fact that we are creating the mood, and this is just a scream, anyway. That is the hard truth, and the Hungarian people have the right to know what you are doing on the shore of Lake Balaton. And yes, we're going to talk louder and louder about how Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. Because that's what's important to us, we don't allow the expropriation of Lake Balaton, we say no to the installation, because I've already mentioned the social effects, but we shouldn't forget the environmental issues. You kill the reeds to have a nice view from the apartment houses to the Lake Balaton. Then we will not talk about the damage the Balaton ecosystem will suffer and will cause irreversible processes in the Hungarian sea. That's what you put your name to it. We don't give it, we say no to the installation, and we say no to the planned ports, because Lake Balaton, whether you like it or not, is everyone's. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Applause from the opposition.]]
u2021-03-01-216	Thank you very much.
u2021-03-01-217	I'd like to continue, Mr. President, because there was...
u2021-03-01-218	Yes, of course. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-219	Thank you very much. A complex rural development strategy is needed. How many times have I told you that we should go down to the countryside and see the Hungarian reality. I'm telling you this because I've been hearing a really amazing story lately. In a small settlement in Somogy, people are simply forbidden to go out into the street when Viktor Orbán's motor pool in Somogy. It is closed so that he does not know that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán does not see the reality, the poverty and misery in which somogyi people live. [[15.50]] Of course, you say you saved the village, so I haven't seen it in the last eleven years. That they're handing over fitness parks? I wouldn't call that a complex rural development strategy. You gotta help people. There are no jobs! These are the messages I get from countless places. And what do you do? Well, nothing. It is not a job to cut through ribbons and hand over small markets that my fellow Members are investigating for millions of forints. This is your rural development! Well, we say no to that. People need real help, not concealment, not a sense of shame, which you have caused in Hungarian society. And then they say, yes, there's no job, but there's community service. Yeah, well, it would be nice to have this community service, if the money they'd invested in it hadn't been put into tools that no one could use now. There are the equipment purchases of the Start Work Programme, practically out of the question, because there is no one to work, because you no longer invest enough energy in the Public Works Programme to give decent wages to the people who live there. For 50 or a few thousand forints, how can people be expected to work? That's what you should think about. We need a complex rural development strategy, which is why we are working. Thank you very much, Mr President, and for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-03-01-220	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You didn't need any patience, because you still had time for five minutes. [[Anita Kőrösi: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Mr Rig Lajos has also applied for a post- Agenda address from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-221	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Members, The title of my speech after today's agenda could have been the black day of health workers, March 1. Everyone knows that on 1 March, it is possible for health workers and health workers to sign a new health service contract for them until midnight. But let's look at the beginning of this. In October and November 2020, we adopted a health salad law that regulated the employment of health workers in several parts, and most of the pro-government politicians only talked about raising the wages of doctors, and the release of gratuity money. If we look at these two aspects of the bill, there is no one in the world who disagrees with it, even though this bill is about much more. Everyone says that the devil always lurks in detail, and according to this law, it is no different. On 1 March 2021, the date on which the employees have to sign this law, a law or a contract of employment that they still do not know the details of. Government politicians insisted that they should receive the new contract, get to know it and sign it 30 days before signing the contract. Well, here, unfortunately, at this point, they lied, also in the statement by the Secretary of State that the National Hospital Director-General informed hospital managers about how the contract was concluded, and not the employees. Employees received an eight-page legal form, but only their wages were listed in the employment contract. You always talk about doctors, and you forget to admit or say that the health system is not just about them. There are about 75,000 professionals who operate this healthcare system, whether they are health professionals or health professionals, and here I am thinking primarily of janitors, cleaning workers and other staff. Their wages were mentioned as a 72-percent wage increase. Once again, they forget to tell us a figure: this overall increase of 72 percent is not an increase in the basic wage for 2020, but an increase in the basic wage for 2016. So they're cutting themselves off here, not just health workers. 1 March 2021 is the black day. If someone makes this day on the Internet, what they'll find under the heading of the health worker, a lot of health professionals are saying goodbye. Some leave health care after 30 years, some leave this healthcare system after twenty years, after fourteen years, after high hopes. And when will they leave him? When there is a health epidemic in Hungary. In my opinion, it was an irresponsible decision to force workers into such legislation during this period. We would have given you the opportunity to see this change in legislation as good and to introduce the new legislation in health care as an option and not as binding. The employee has two choices: he will support his family and sign it, or he will not use it, because the rules on him are detrimental, he will leave the health system and, worst of all, he will leave Hungary. Germany, Austria, awaits them with open arms, not for the price of the 72 percent wage increase in 2016, but for the net cost of EUR 2500 in eight hours a day. Ladies and gentlemen, There's still time to change that. I believe that the opposition will support this. Let us hear the emergency voices of health workers who now write on the Internet the words that union leaders should say. Where are the high-pitched union leaders? [[That's it.]] Where's Agnes Cser? I, if my memory is correct, heard him speak at a health demonstration in 2015. How did it end? They whistled it. That's why he doesn't stand up for his employees, even though this is decades of professional interest in Hungary, so to speak. I trust that, after 2022, there will be an interest representation at the top of the workforce that is in the interests of the workers and not in the political interests. I wish for each health worker to endure, not far from 2022, and together we will be able to establish a health care system [[The president's gonna jog his glass.]] which is good for health care, good for workers, good for patients. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-01-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member László Varju has applied for a speech from the DK Group after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-223	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. During my work, I try to deal with the work that has been carried out in my constituency, Újpest-Angyalföld, and the proposals coming from there, and we can make use of its experience here in the palace. At this time, I try to help with our basic legal advice and thus contribute to dealing with workers' problems, for example. But how much life is a screenwriter is about the consequences of the change in the health law and how we hear the voices of workers who, by the way, are in a position today, on 1 March, to be at a crossroads. I'm going to present the letter to you now. Dear László Varju! I'd like to make a few remarks about my medical service. The current legislation on this is not fully transparent, and we need a separate resolution on where workers who work in health care, but not in health jobs, belong. According to our current knowledge, the latter will be working lawmakers on significantly worse terms than Kjt., and they will not receive a raise unless their employer decides to give them something, if they already have coverage. We'll have less freedom under the Health Act, including the Labour Code, for example, five days for me. Looks like they're taking away our 12 good half-price IDs a year. There is a reduction in the period of exemption, the individual authorisation of special work throughout the sector, for everyone, to which unknown people will nod or reject. It should have been announced so far, but for employers, it was not the only way to employ people in a separate body. It would have been nice to have been granted a transitional period, at least for those who are just ahead of retirement. I have only 14 months until retirement, until I am 65 years old, 26 years in public service, and seven months after 45 years of employment, after which I had to be relieved of work. According to the new rules, I'm only gonna have three months off. One thing is certain: the law has not brought peace into the sector, only anger and tension, the Julius Caesarian, divide and conquer! This is because of the type of discrimination. [[16.00]] To be honest, I am sad that I will finish my work in such a tense situation, and also because my colleagues will be forced to work under such conditions. It is also sad, rather bitter, that we had to introduce this service law at a time when health care has been perhaps the most difficult for decades. I'm working in a place that's been hit hard by the plague. I'm sure there's a place where they can take fewer patients, but they can't be generalized. Trust me, it's not easy to go in and work in health care every day. Thank you for listening. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, That's what the letter says. Ladies and gentlemen. I think... [[The sound's gonna stop.]]
u2021-03-01-224	It's not over!
u2021-03-01-225	It's a day like today.
u2021-03-01-226	Go ahead, Congressman.
u2021-03-01-227	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. I think that when people say that and send a message to Members of Parliament, we need to hear it. As many of us have said today, and not only today, but also much earlier, that, yes, there is a change in health care that seems to be a much more black day than a black day on 1 March, rather than creating conditions where workers could do anything to reduce this possibility every day in the future after the deaths of 15,000 people. Their work, their sacrifice, I think he'd do anything but let them work. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-03-01-228	Thank you very much, Congressman, and I apologize for that. [[László Varju: Van.]] I didn't take the floor, but there's no need to explain it. Dear House, Member Zoltán Varga of the DK Group has also applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, You know, everyone still has the time when Fidesz dropped their political communications atomic bomb just a year and a half ago that Debrecen will be the new capital of the fidesz world. How exactly did that crazy-looking sentence sound? Because of the fall of Budapest, Debrecen must be the new capital of national resistance. And what's terrible in this sentence is that despite all his madness, it's obvious that the Orbán regime is doing everything in its power to create reality out of the sick fantasy. However, the destruction of Budapest and free cities, like any other depraved orbánian move, has a terrible cost, since all government magic, political and communication tricks and billionaire propaganda in its original form clearly renders the government's shady plan unsolvable. Even though all fidesz innovations, including the introduction of priority economic zones, paying parking under the cover of the pandemic, taking away the tax on motor vehicles and business taxes, I could say the introduction of solidarity contributions and other restrictions, not least Budapest and the other opposition-led cities and districts do not want to be destroyed by God, moreover, the people living there are brought together, they are forged by the government, and they want to destroy the municipalities rather than separate them. In addition, since it is impossible to measure the poison of Orbán on a pharmacy scale for all municipalities individually, the pro-government cities will suffer the destruction of the local government in the same way as the opposition settlements for whom it was invented. And all this is happening despite the fact that the government is moving every stone and, of course, many, many billions of forints so that the carpet bombing on the municipalities does not touch cities loyal to the government. And we can see that despite Orbán's Christmas gift to the government-party cities, it is 1,38 billion forints of juda money, these municipalities, as well, are equipped with governors loyal to Orbán as much as Debrecen, but they can barely plan or even submit their budget for 2021 by gnashing their teeth and introducing all the fairytale elements. Let's see what happens in the new capital of national resistance, Debrecen. The mayor's draft budget submitted at the very last minute, according to his own declaration and presentation, is strong and development-oriented, which, in his view, represents primarily development, stability and security. We're not bleeding out, he says. It's a very nice sentence, but it's not true. There's only one word out of this line of sentences that's not true. Because this budget is not trying to hide virtually anything behind glaze and round sentences, as the government's restrictions, which are becoming less and less secretive against Budapest and the other opposition free settlements, are waving over the Prime Minister's head, Debrecent is putting in just as impossible a position as the other opposition cities. The restrictions in Orbán cause a problem of approximately HUF 10 billion in Debrecen, and the HUF 1.38 billion thrown here as a juda money was only enough to patch up only one third of the horriable, unprecedented loss of urban community transport of HUF 3.1 billion. In order for the budget in Debrecen to be able to come together at all, as you know, my fellow Members, this is the most important thing in the planning of a municipal budget, the government was again called upon by the Governor of Debrecen of Fidesz. However, government aid, as it turns out today, has a heavy-to-serious cost of billions. From Debrecen, the state buys its two most valuable assets, the Balásházy János Technicum and the Agora Experience Park built a few years ago. Please, it's kind of like a blind beggar with a strong guy taking his money and throwing the hat back to him, otherwise he'll be able to collect more. And according to propaganda, the government is helping Debrecen. And the question is, since the robbery, gentlemen, ladies, has been called help. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-03-01-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Mrs Bősz Anett of the DK Group has also applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Agglomeration is a highly dynamically developing region. Thousands of people move to our cities every year, and we are all struggling with the challenges that arise primarily from the lack of infrastructure improvements that cannot keep up with the number of people moving in. Törökbálint and Diósd were still quiet settlements a few decades ago, and it attracted many people to vacation, vacation, or, if necessary, buy a small house to relax during the week. However, there are now more than 30,000 people living in these settlements, and unfortunately, their sidewalk construction, kindergarten and school development is far from what would come directly from the population that is moving in. It's the same for me. The youngest town of county has 75 thousand inhabitants ahead of Szolnok, the second largest rural settlement in its territory. He's quite similar, though they've only just crossed 10,000. Here, too, many commute, plan families, build houses, and miss the train to the South Railway Station in the morning with the Volán bus. These settlements host a number of young families, who the government claims to enjoy in every sense the current support of the Hungarian state, but this is where children often do not get a nursery or kindergarten space, or that there is no place to push the stroller, because there is no sidewalk. In fact, it often happens in these settlements that the family can feel in the wilderness in our cities on the dirt roads before going on a trip. In addition to all these challenges, we still have a problem with the proximity of motorways and the fact that the noise barrier is still incomplete. It is no exaggeration, ladies and gentlemen, to say that there are 50,000 people waiting for noise walls to be rebuilt in Érden, Törökbálint and Tárnök. If you move to suburbia, you're not doing it to replace the noise of Blaha Lujza Square with the noise of the trucks that run off the highways. The section between the Fundoklia Valley, Vereckei Street, Iparos Street Node and Vihorlat-Visegrádi Street suffers from the noise barrier outside M7. [[16.10]] Another problem is that where a noise barrier is built only on one side of the motorway, the existing wall section radiates noise in the other direction. In the same way, a significant part of the noise load in Törökbálint derives from road sections that the city has no direct influence on. The city is divided into roads used by the whole country, such as highway M0, motorway M1 and motorway M7, as well as main road No. 1. The city has repeatedly stated that it can only do little to improve the city's road network in terms of noise pollution. Törökbálint has sought contact with the incumbent MP, the ministries, and the State Secretariats, in vain until now. The quietness of the Tarnocs is mainly disturbed by the noise and air pollution of Highway 7, although it is difficult that the noise barrier created on their railway lines disturbs many people in the improvement of their quality of life; they said that they felt locked up. It can also be seen from this point that this is a complex challenge, and I do not think that it can always be good for everyone, but I do think that it is always necessary to strive for the best possible success in all regions and to do the most good for as many people as possible. There is therefore no uniform, good solution, but it is apparent that the municipalities have repeatedly searched for the Hungarian Public Road and the State Secretariats to continue building the noise barrier walls of motorways and highways, so far in vain. Ladies and gentlemen, The population of the agglomeration is constantly growing, and we need to care about people who are literally sweeping around their own house, but in vain, if noise and air pollution are swept across their garden by the absence of noise barrier walls. We would be fully satisfied if the ever-increasing tolls that burden the wallets of those who commute from these settlements could be used to finally complete these noise walls. After all, the goal would be to have a place of residence, not just a huge accommodation, but a real home. And I also think that if this starts with building and reducing noise walls, then we can believe that it is worth developing these settlements. I will work in the future, and I will seek contact with the Road in every way to strengthen the voice of these settlements, and finally to hear those words. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-03-01-232	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Bence Tordai has applied for a post-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, When I walk around Buda in my narrower Patriot, talking to voters there, people interested in politics, a lot of people ask me what will happen after the change of government, who are the Fidesz criminals who will go behind bars, how this whole process will work. I always say that it is not our job, politicians, to put other politicians behind bars, or to lead some of us into captivity, although it is a demand, it is our job to create conditions for independent justice. That's what we're gonna do, and in the meantime, our job is to learn as much as possible about corruption and other orange crimes that come out every day, week after week. Lajos Kósa may not get so much emphasis lately, but it is not worth forgetting the history of Antal Rogán, at least I will not forget it, so much that in recent weeks I have tried more data requests, trying to find out what happened around the famous land purchase case. But it may be worth recalling, for the sake of the younger ones, who is Antal Rogán, who is the Minister of Propaganda of Viktor Orbán. He's the one who, while he's supposed to be in charge of communication, doesn't communicate himself, has so much butter on his head that it's obvious he can't go out into the sun. Especially since the helicopter scandal, he has been avoiding the public, or perhaps since the third degree in 2019, so confirmed by the Curia, we are free to say that Antal Rogán is dealing with a criminal and criminal. Antal Rogán does this, and perhaps everyone no longer remembers how he founded his reputation, his reputation, his infamousness, and his wealth. In the downtown business, and then organizing the settlement bonds business, he probably made tens of billions, and we also know what talent he has in the various confusing inventions that make him hundreds of millions a year, or even magic with real estate. Right now, taking care of his third wife's dowry has brought the public's attention to his activities. The events are on two lines, one of which has already been reported, and hopefully the European Union Anti-Fraud Office, if not the Hungarian prosecutor's office, will investigate the case in which Antal Rogán's new father-in-law could buy up a quarter of a company with a HUF 2.5 billion grant or bank loan for HUF 750 thousand from the bank controlled by Antal Rogán's old confidant, his right hand, with whom they co-owned in downtown businesses. The other story, in which we really tried to steer our ship towards clarity with my little investigative team, is the land purchase story where Antal Rogán's new family bought over 1,000 hectares in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County for 1.6 billion forints. On the one hand, this vast land estate shows the feudal affection the elite of Fidesz feels for the earth and so generally for the accumulation of wealth, on the other hand, the story of this is an excellent illustration of how the Rogans and the likes of it make great wealth, and how they launder the money that they exploit the relationships that their politician criminals have gathered in their past. What happened here was that the customers had virtually no own source, once again only the confidence of Rogan and the Budapest Bank, which controlled it, gave 95 percent credit for this business, and it was such a scandal, even within the governing parties, that it was so out of line with some news that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, even though the signed contract of sale, which everyone could see on the Internet, had to back out of the deal. This back-dancing was done through the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Government Office, which should have approved the purchase of land, like any similar purchase of land. And now you're saying that the Rogans couldn't afford high-quality lawyers, which would be really weird, or the thing is, it really was a political order to cancel this deal and try to pretend that nothing had happened. Bad news, we're not gonna be able to cover this up, we're gonna get the government office's decision, if nothing else, then I'm gonna ask the people involved, if they don't have anything to hide, to make it public, and we're gonna look into every detail of Antal Rogán's dirty business, so that after a well-founded complaint, justice can do its job after 2022. Thank you very much.
u2021-03-01-234	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in your speech, as you said, as you said, how the Curia took its stand, it was not said and it could not be said, because the Curia never makes such a statement. Thank you. [[Bence of Turdai: It's approved.]] Congressman Attila Mesterházy is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-235	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear empty house, I am completely surprised, by the way, that the Hungarian Government does not commend opposition representatives to say anything about what we are bringing up here as a topic. I may be the 16-17th Member who wanted to ask the government after the agenda, so I can only actually ask the commentaries and colleagues who operate the House, because the government does not praise opposition representatives for their response, which is simply scandalous. Nevertheless, for the purpose of this report, I would like to say the thought that I would have expressed as a question to the Ministry of Defence. A new base is built between Gyulafirató and Hajmáskér, which is the name of this battle training area, which is made from NATO investment. It should be known that there has been a gun range and training ground in this area for decades, with basically all its disadvantages, and now this new investment has caused waves among the inhabitants of the region, among the people living there and living in the settlements concerned. [[16.20]] We do not doubt that the Ministry of Defence has made an attempt to properly inform the people who live there about these projects, but yet we see, speaking to the citizens there, that this has not been sufficiently effective. They may have informed the Fidesz mayors about the state of play, the process of the investment, the schedule and how it was done, but this information did not reach the voters. It's worth changing. I think it is also in the interests of the Ministry of Defence that, as many of its representatives have said in their answers, they want to strive to maintain a good relationship with the population. This is very right, by the way, but it would be worth doing something more than merely informing the Fidesz mayors of what kind of investment is being made in that area. But not all is lost yet, I recommend to the Ministry of Defence that you take action and try to organize an event for the population in an online format or inform them in writing about what they are planning and when they will be finished, and what a burden this new investment and its operation will be for the people who live there, as it will function as a NATO base. I wanted to ask you a specific question, but I will do it in another way for the Ministry of Defence to plan any compensation for the people who live there. After all, that combat training, sharpshooting, other military exercises, that's dust, air, noise pollution and load. In the past, when the friendly Soviet troops were still there, the walls of the houses or windows had been cracked in many cases, and since then the people living there may still face a number of such problems, and many even believe that the value of their land or their house may be reduced. I cannot judge that, but there are such concerns among the people there. Therefore, I would ask if I knew that if there were anyone here from the Ministry of Defence, I would ask the Minister or the Secretary of State that in any Ministry of Defence budget there would be an item that would provide some kind of compensation for the settlements with such a high-ranking base and field of combat training. So, do you plan to compensate, give these settlements some money to improve the quality of life of those living there, or, as I said before, at least compensate for the difficulties and air, noise and other traffic congestion that you have to deal with? Unfortunately, I couldn't do that today, because here, if I look around the House, maybe there are two or three opposition representatives out of the House, and so are the representatives of the government. So they don't deserve us either, so I'd like to conclude my comment, which I started with, and they don't deserve us to give us any kind of explanation or answers to any of the suggestions made by their representatives. This is very unfortunate and scandalous. Thank you very much, Mr President, for this opportunity.
u2021-03-01-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Bencsik also applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At the end of the week, the six opposition parties announced that opposition pre-elections would be held in all 106 constituencies of the country during the autumn. To quote: the best, the most suitable candidates will be found, of course, under democratic conditions, everyone can start to join forces and unite forces to overthrow Viktor Orbán's corrupt government. That sounds very nice, but if we take a little look at the witchcraft of politics, we can see that there is a huge gap between words and actions. In fact, there are small-letter parts of the opposition pre-election that have just seen the public see that independent and civil candidates will have to declare in advance which party's factions will be included in their election, so that they can share the responsibility of common governance. I have to say, after a year's work, it did come out of the bag after all. So, my fellow Members, my fellow opposition Members, you are not looking for the most suitable candidates, you are recruiting party soldiers. The opposition pre-election will not be a celebration of democracy, but a new stage in political looting. Of course, this can be done, only if this is the real goal, then say it, that everything is decided in advance, high-fived, and this whole pre-election is nothing but the concreteization of the power of the leading politicians of the four or five opposition parties, so that in 2022 they do not have to return to their civil occupation and seek employment again in the labour market. If that's the point, then say it. Then you don't have to seduce democracy. There's another, much bigger problem, and there's a problem with the opposition merger, which is that it doesn't work. Apart from Budapest and some county seats, it doesn't work, it didn't work in the Borsod interim election, and in my opinion, if everything stays that way, it won't work in the country in 2022. With the merger, the opposition will not be diverse, but it will be colorless. He will not win new voters, but will lose voters who want to change government in 2022 without having to go back in time before 2010. I have said this many times among the walls of this House, but I would like to repeat: it is not the 200-300 thousand very active, very committed, very combative opposition voters who are still very active and who will send me to a warmer climate in my Facebook video during my speech, because I criticized the opposition, they are already convinced, they would go tomorrow to choose if it rains or blows. We need to convince the insecure. Uncertain people without whom there will be no change of government, who now have a good heart to stand, and who, if not better, would now stay at home or vote against one of the fake parties. And these uncertain ones are not addressed and mobilized, but are deterred by the common list and the opposition merger. And of course, you can betray, you can hire Fidesz, the fact is, fellow Members of the opposition, that you are implementing Viktor Orbán's dangerous plan. Why do you think the Prime Minister will change the electoral law through the Avatar of János Volner at the end of the previous year in such a way as to facilitate the statement of the common list and make it difficult for the opposition to start on a separate list? Does Viktor Orbán want to lose or help the opposition? Well, there is no sane person who would think that Viktor Orbán would change the electoral law in such a way that it would be bad for him. Fidesz knows exactly, because it has been precisely measured that the common list and the merged opposition on a list are not endangering, but is helping the government to remain in power. And this will remain so as long as the opposition electorate pays six, gets one within the framework of an action, if they want to vote for the opposition party, then they will receive, in a package, all the senior opposition representatives of the last few years, who have been discredited and decredited. This is the guarantee of Fidesz's victory. I would like to announce to you that we have recently launched a new party called the Civil Reply Movement in court, to represent those who do not feel any political bloc, and who desire something else, something new. I would also like to reassure everyone that we are not sharing the opposition, but precisely that we are mobilizing and involving new opposition voters; opposition voters who have been disillusioned by the ruling party and who have also been disillusioned by the opposition, so that their vote will not be lost, but that it will reach parliamentary representation. So instead of joint governance, we are preparing for a civilian representation in the interests of the nation, which is accountable and based on clear values, so that we can turn this into a country of salvation along specific matters, in cooperation with each party. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-03-01-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ádám Steinmetz has applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group after the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-03-01-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My friends who teach boys ask me why a kid should start playing soccer if he won't play first class because of foreigners. Of course, that's what I'm saying: the love of sport, the rich lifestyle, the attitude-forming power of sport is important and not the first class, but in fact, the latter was always the most important thing for me, and without this approach, I couldn't have been Olympic champions, we couldn't have been Olympic champions. And of course, we also know that sport involves a lot of resignations, and that even with a lot of resignations, everyone doesn't become a first-class player. And as you can see, most football players don't. [[16.30]] But why is that? After all, over the past ten years, due to taxpayers, sports infrastructure has been renewed in many places; over 700 new football fields have been handed over in the country and 148 thousand more football players in Hungary than before. Meanwhile, properly paid coaches can provide our young people with the most modern training tools. Therefore, the conditions are excellent for quality replacement training in our country, but the results are not visible. In ten years, a generation should have grown up to flood Europe's top teams, or at least the Hungarian NB I. And paradoxically, what happened? Never have so few young Hungarian talents played in the first class as today. In January this year, for example, only two of the 22 players starting the Kisvárda-MOL Fehérvár FC match were Hungarian. Listen up for last season. 42 percent of the playtime was awarded to foreign players in NB I. The beneficiaries of the Tao system and the young Hungarians between U17 and U23 are only 17 percent of the total playtime. So why start playing soccer in Kisvárda, Fehérvár, Felcsú or Ferencváros if foreigners make it impossible to get to the first team? In Kisvárdán because of the Ukrainians, it's hard even for the U17. Ladies and gentlemen, It doesn't take a specialist to make it clear that foreigners take the place away from Hungarian talent. For many years, the MLSZ has struggled with the fact that few viewers go to our otherwise great stadiums. But honestly, and now respect for the exception, who wants to know about the weak foreigners? So here's what I'm proposing. Hungarian public money for the quality training of Hungarian children and Hungarian talents! There is neither a sports mail nor an economic justification for spending taxpayers' money on training foreign football players. Therefore, clubs, academys should be interested in quality game training, youth management, which also includes the possibility of playing and proving in the adult team from time to time. And anyone who refuses to do so, and who prefers to justify foreign players, has the right of his heart. But then don't even apply for hundreds of millions of taoforins, which we're going to raise and train for supplies. Currently, training centres receive public money on a billion-dollar scale without expectations. However, the value of the replacement training work can be measured based on the level of sales of the trained players. Experience in recent years has shown that the majority of young Hungarians are not only inaccessible to the European edge, but, unfortunately, even the Hungarian NB I. Ladies and Gentlemen, Strong football nations have long known that resupply training is the key to success. Well-trained coaches have a unified plan to raise players who are already young enough to hold their place in European championships. That would therefore also be the aim in Hungary. The good news is that we already have most of the tools we need to do this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-01-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. The final agenda will be followed by a statement. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-03-01-241	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you some serious thoughts about my narrower country, my homeland, Satmar. It is not the first time I have said in this House that we in Satmar have felt for a very long time that I myself have felt for the past 30 years that we are second-rate or multi-level citizens of this country. We are often undeserved, unwarranted, without cause, undeserved, underestimated, only and only because we live in the easternmost county of the country, and although we are fulfilling the same obligations, we are following the same laws as our fellow countrymen in any other part of the country, we are paying the same taxes and public burdens, but this region is hardly receiving any of the opportunities and developments. I do not dispute it, and the Hungarian Movement does not dispute that there has been some progress over the past 10 years, as has been the case in the last 30 years. But if we look at the harsh and sad numbers, we see that an average person living in the county is now not only looking for the area of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, but I am talking about the whole area of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the current average earnings in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, from which living is absolutely hopeless, even on foot to the bus stop is not a small challenge, and with all due respect to the active artists working in all branches of fine art, but the real art in Hungary today is to make a living of 138 thousand forints. This requires the most creative artistic qualities and abilities. And if we look at the health situation in the Satmar region, we see that in October 2020 we had to fight close combat in the figurative sense of the word so that the maternity department of the Mátészalka Hospital would not fall victim to the pandemic, and indeed, we managed to prevent the maternity ward from being closed by means of a last-minute or second sluggish assembly with the local population. At the moment, this danger has been eliminated, but I cannot rule out the possibility that some other department of Matthew's Hospital may not later be in the same emergency. I will do my best to ensure that the Mátészalka Hospital operates at least at the pre-p pandemic supply level, and if I could, I would recommend this to the decision-makers in the case of the Fehérgyarmat Hospital. What I don't understand is why the six pro-government MPs in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County are constantly voting off my proposals for the development of the hospital in Mátészalka, around 700-800 million, which would, without exception, serve the long-term development of the hospital or rescue service and are free of any short- or long-term political interest. Just like I don't understand why the bell and the Mátészalka industrial park is unused. The bell is practically complete, but the Mátészalka industrial park would also have free chemical values. This is true even if new developments have been promised recently, but the potential of the city's exceptionally favourable geographical situation has still been exploited with low efficiency. And then there is a development promised for years: one of the prisons, one of the nine prisons promised by the government four to five years ago, would also be built at the border of my hometown. According to my information, this number has been reduced from nine to three, but even in these three, the plan for the construction of the prison in Ring, which would provide jobs for at least 250 people living in and around the country, not to mention those who have already participated in the training, but are being transferred to other prisons in the country for work. To quote a classic joke: there is no prison yet, but there is a need and a need. Just as there is a great need for the M49 bypass road, which we have been promised for a quarter of a century by several governments and several prime ministers. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also promised this; most recently on 4 May 2017 at the inauguration of the Csengeri District Training School, and the traffic counting data confirm this need. In 2006 we saw 10 320 vehicles in a 24-hour traffic count in the village of Kocsord, which has risen to 16,000 in 2010, and in recent years this figure has gone simply over 20,000. This in itself confirms the urgent need for these improvements. And I would very much like to finally have my homeland, which is and will remain my heart for the rest of my life, not the land of promise, but the land of promise, at least for once in life. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-03-01-242	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the spring session is expected to take place on 16 March following our national celebration. Thank you for your work, thank you for keeping the record, thank you for the work of the Members of the House. The meeting is closed, and everyone is happy to return home and have a good night.
