u2021-12-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 21st day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Adam Steinmetz will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, The pre-meeting speeches will follow. To speak before the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group: on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-14-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The final hour of Fidesz administration is about to end the last year of their government, so it's time to take stock of what they've achieved over the past many 11 years. For my part, I take stock of their achievements in the field of housing, but rather their failures. We see that Fidesz has pushed Hungary into a housing crisis, millions of people are affected by housing poverty in Hungary today. More than 4 million Hungarians live in overcrowded households, 2.5 million live in unhealthy homes, where the wall is molding, wind blowing in, or the roof is leaking. 300,000 of our countrymen live in slums, and after more than 11 years of government, there are 170,000 children who live in households without bathrooms and toilets in the apartment. The number of evictions has been tens of thousands since 2010. The problem of homelessness also affects tens of thousands, and since 2010, about 2.5 thousand of our fellow citizens have died of coldness, i.e. the number of frost deaths over 200 per year on average. Hungarians live in a very high proportion not only of housing poverty but also of energy poverty. 80 percent of Hungarian households are energy-old, 40 percent of solid fire is typical, so the reduction in the rent you promote does not really affect two-fifths of Hungarians. You have never helped the poorest. Energy renovations, which would have urgent needs for Hungary in the social sense, for health reasons and for climate protection, have not been anywhere for 11 years, and they have now appeared as part of the election division. But you never said you'd support people in a difficult line. You lied about helping the middle class to help the Hungarian families, those who already have some capital to start. Let's see what the middle class, the family support, the results of the construction of the new apartment show. While in the 2000s, between 2002-2009, the number of new apartments transferred per year was between 32 thousand and 44 thousand, there were four consecutive years at the time of your administration, when not even the 10 thousand were reached, and the best number in the 2010s did not last the worst in the 2000s. You also failed to support housing, and this is why, while 50 percent of young people lived with their parents in 2005, by 2019 this figure is 62 percent. So 62 percent of Hungarians aged 18-35 live with their parents for financial reasons, they cannot afford to start a single life, move away from home and start a family. So if you are investigating why no more children are born, why the planned children are not born, then I will help you: because you have no place to be, because you do not effectively support the start of the Hungarian youth. The countless children of Viktor Orbán, who, standing on our feet, buy castles and palaces that spin on a cabal, but also Papa Orbán, who knows who he is building a huge estate in Hatvanpuszta, will build himself an amazing castle of lords or perhaps princess, they believe that this is the Hungarian Versailles. So while on one side it's amazing misery, on the other side it's amazing luxury. The result of your 11-year governance is housing crisis and record inflation, record mortality, record corruption. You have pushed Hungary into this state by the end of 2021. You have become unworthy of the Hungarians' trust, so next spring under the leadership of Péter Márki-Zay [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] We will win over you in the election and return hope to Hungary. [[Miklós Soltész: You are very funny!]] Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-12-14-2	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-12-14-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You were talking about the housing situation. I think it is also an important issue, so allow me to speak about the government measures that you deliberately, probably deliberately, willfully left out of your speech. For years there has been an effective home creation program in Hungary, the main element of which is the family home creation discount, which has helped more than 100 thousand Hungarian families, including opposition representatives, including Bertalan Tóth or Péter Jakab. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] I cannot ignore the fact that these Members have taken this opportunity to attack the home creation programme and family support in the same manner as you have done in general. The tax on housing, as you well know, is down to five percent. This alone is helpful, a 22 percentage point aid. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] I'm sorry, Congressman, I've been giving you all year to listen to what you're saying, even if you're lying, even if you're disrespectful, because I'd like to give respect to your constituents. I would like to ask for the same respect on behalf of our constituents. So what I'd like to tell you is that the green chip is on its way. Maybe it's something you'd appreciate if you weren't sitting on the other side. Green-CSOK is used to build energy-efficient apartments and build houses. The village CSOK also provides significant help to social groups who live in small settlements. There was no such program before, and you didn't even think about launching such a program. Under the Energy Efficiency Programme, energy efficiency investments are carried out in a number of panels. In recent days, the largest solar installation programme in recent decades has been launched, with millions of support for families under a certain income threshold. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And as for the livelihood of young people... I'm sorry, Congressman, I listened. As regards the livelihood of young people, they will not have to pay income tax from 1 January to 25 years. Again, this is a measure that you have never thought of. During your administration, there was also a 36 percent tax rate. Now we have a uniform 15 percent income tax rate, and it will decrease to zero percent in 25 years. This will also help young people, the resulting extra income, to buy a new apartment or a second-hand apartment, have a better chance of reducing the tax. We remember that at your time, the existing family support system was not only extended, but also reduced, tax incentives or funded HUF loans were reduced. What came instead? Foreign currency lending. So much so that, during your administration, the volume of foreign currency loans has increased 40 times. [[9.10]] So there was no support there, but it became indebted to hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. This government had to put it in place with a price barrier, with the possibility of redemption, and so on with the issue of foreign exchange loans in general. As far as the issue of the poor is concerned, the number of people exposed to poverty in Hungary has decreased by 1 million and 250 thousand Hungarians. It's not us, it's Eurostat. This is also related to the decrease in unemployment rates from 12 to 4 percent. If someone has a job, then they have a much better chance of earning income, not twenty-thousand forints of aid, but a minimum wage, which will now be 200,000 forints, rather than 70 thousand forints in your time. And that's a big difference. As for Captain Péter Márki-Zay. He implied they'd win with him. If he and you were really interested in the livelihood of the Hungarians, you would not let him speak out against the reduction of the rent. He says he'll erase it. Then they wouldn't let it go without supporting the price of petrol. Then they wouldn't just let you oppose the existence of a minimum wage. [[Bence of Turda: Come on!]] So, if it were up to Péter Márki-Zay, there would not be a minimum wage of HUF 200,000, let alone a minimum wage of HUF 73,000, but no minimum wage. If there were no minimum wage, an employer could give the employee a salary of up to HUF 20,000. Insensitive in the cube. If we remember the past election campaigns a little bit, then it was a recurring element that you always said that the governing parties were terrified, because the left will win, and then the Hungarians always decided differently, and in 2014 and 2018 the ruling parties were elected with a two-thirds mandate. So, I just want to ask you with due respect that with a 1 percent party behind your back, [[Bence of Turdai: four!]] as far as possible, be more careful about how the Hungarians will act next spring. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-14-4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with a title on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2021-12-14-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, If we look at the past four years in terms of environmental policy, we should start with a surprisingly sincere sentence by Péter Szijjártó, because in 2018, he said that the Hungarian government will always be more important to German car manufacturers than the EU's climate protection efforts. This sincere sentence was also confirmed by actions. So far, every time either the Prime Minister or one of the ministers has had the opportunity to make decisions in the leadership of the European Union between tougher climate targets or worse climate targets, he has always chosen the worse, every real effort against polluting large companies in the European Union, vetoed and voted every single time as expected by Audi, Mercedes or BMW. The fact is that the polluter pays the principle, which the Orbán government likes to express, and what is a good principle, is as follows in Hungary. They are not collecting money from polluting large companies into the Hungarian budget, and they are spending it on environmental policy, but they are giving Hungarian taxpayers' money through strategic partnerships to polluting large companies. The polluter pays principle does not apply when Coca-Cola, the world's largest plastic polluter, receives a lot of tax relief when ExxonMobil, which has spent over $30 billion since 1983 to undermine the scientific fact of climate change, receives tax relief under a strategic partnership agreement, and Viresol Kft. And when he pollutes his Matraal, he doesn't have to pay for it, because sooner or later they'll stop. The fact is that the policies that many other right-wing governments are implementing are not being implemented either, because some of nature conservation is indeed right-wing, but a really right-wing government would never allow the Hungarian natural heritage to be destroyed, as you did at our great lakes, Lake Venice, Lake Fertő and Lake Balaton. The fact is that although the government structure is often a theoretical thing, it says many things that there is no independent Ministry of Environment, no Ministry of Climate Policy. Their former Secretary of State, Zoltán Illés, who teaches at CEU, has repeatedly said that the Prime Minister told him that environmental protection is a left-wing thing. Nevertheless, due to some completely incomprehensible change, the last cycle was about Balázs Orbán posting various Robert Scruton book reviews to prove the opposite. The fact is that they felt so much that the Hungarian people expected the Hungarian government to take action against climate change, that Viktor Orbán announced a climate protection action plan in his last year review before the coronal virus epidemic. Then they had a green consultation, which was only available online. You were not led here by paper saving, but by Hungarian people not to notice that this is happening. However, what happened at the end was that measures that are extremely few, which solve very few things, were not respected. The foresting targets that have been marked have not yet been met. They didn't clean up our rivers and lakes, and they banned wind energy for some completely incomprehensible reason in the transition to alternative energy. The situation is simple. Green policy can only be if there are green politicians in a government. The tragedy has also occurred in the Orbán government, with the agricultural minister being a beekeeper, the Hungarian government alone voted against the ban on bee-killing chemicals in the leadership of the European Union. The fact is that you do not consider green policy important, but try to make yourselves green in different ways, perhaps the most beautiful example in the field of environmental protection was at the Christian Democratic People's Party in July, August, and yet you are not actually doing anything. The result of the last 11 years of governance is record inflation, record mortality and zero green policy. But under the leadership of Péter Márki-Zay, we will win in the next election, and when this victory comes, then there will be a green policy in Hungary again, and you will hear what it really is from the opposition. Thank you very much.
u2021-12-14-6	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Schanda, Secretary of State, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-12-14-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, if you appreciate government performance in the area of our environmental heritage, then allow me to begin with your assessment of your performance. Because it is true that you, left-wing Members and left-wing politicians, have and have the opportunity to show that they can not only talk about this issue, they not only talk about green issues, they not only talk about protecting and protecting our environmental heritage, they also do. They have the opportunity to act here, in Parliament. They had the opportunity, because when the Hungarian Parliament decided to make Hungary a climate neutral country by 2050, you did not vote for it instead of supporting it, Mr President. You can shake your head and sigh, but the fact is that before you there was a bill that received and received constant praise from Europe since Hungary agreed to become a climate-neutral country by 2050, and that it also laid down the most important conditions attached to it, and you said no to that. But you also say no to concrete action, because you have a mayor in power in Budapest, honourable Member, and you have neither answered nor responded to this today, who we can see exactly what your true commitment to green affairs is. What are you doing? When you have to choose to develop a public park or to privatise, you choose to privatise. [[Bence of Turdai: What are you talking about?]] Congressman! When you have the opportunity to create a cleaner Budapest, what do you do? It is not that he works for a cleaner Budapest, but he even removes existing trash cans, and he is eliminating 25 percent of the existing public space bins in Budapest. It is no coincidence that if we go out to the streets of Budapest, this otherwise beautiful city is swimming in dirt, garbage and smell. This is your political achievement. [[9.20]] You talk about it, you talk about it, you talk about it, you make Facebook posts, but you don't do anything concrete that you do, and it hurts more. Similarly, it hurts more, honourable Member, that you are creating artificial plugs in Budapest with unthinkable traffic management measures, which not only means that the plugs are bigger, not just that people are more annoyed, but that pollution is also increasing, and more harmful substances are being absorbed by motor vehicles. But you on the left have also eliminated the 154-year-old Main Garden without any agreement. It is clear that you are actually doing nothing to protect the environment, doing nothing, but simply making Facebook posts and making these strange parliamentary speeches. On the other hand, honourable Member, Hungary is one of the climate champions, and there is indeed a result of national civil and Christian democratic governance. After all, we can see that CO2 emissions per capita in Hungary are the sixth best value in the EU Member States, 60 percent of Hungarian electricity production is carbon-free, 50 percent comes from nuclear energy, and 10 percent is from renewable energy. But you are also constantly attacking nuclear power generation, because you are interested in talking about this issue, not in real solutions. You know very well and in the European Union you know very well that without nuclear energy, you cannot make a carbon-free energy system. And you, honourable Member, have spoken here about the establishment of a Ministry of Climate Action. This is the traditional left-wing thinking when they expect ministerial structures and bureaucracy to solve the problem between the capitalist and the working class. You can think about this, you can't think about anything else, while you know that it is particularly good for climate protection that the same Ministry deals with economic regulation, energy and transport. I would like to ask you, honourable Member, that if you are serious about green policy, at least you will not attack our good measures. Don't attack rail development, because as a green politician, it's humiliating. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-14-8	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Zoltán Varga, MEP, DK Group, spoke before the agenda with the title of "Active affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-14-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, This is the last day of this year's sitting, perhaps this year we will suffer among the walls of this House, as you mock this country and millions of decent Hungarian people. That was the 11th year. It's about time we appreciated you. Let us not dwell on what you, honourable members of the government, have done in this Chamber over the last 11 years, that is not government, but the looting of the country. I now choose the simplest way to evaluate your 11-year work in some way: I have collected what has happened to the pensioners in your last 11 years. For if we want to know that a government is really serving its country, then we need to see how it treats the elderly. Here we stand after 11 years of crazy orbán winter power, and the situation is as follows: today there are more than half a million people in Hungary, whose pension is less than 100 thousand forints, and there are nearly 1.5 million people whose pension is below 150 thousand forints. Today, fewer than half as much food can be bought from a month's pension in the shops in Hungary, such as Austria, but the Czechs and Slovaks are already ahead of us, and if you stay for four more years, it is almost certain that it will be better to retire in Romania than in Hungary. Today, three times as many pensioners live in relative poverty in Hungary as in 2010 in the middle of a global economic crisis. So if you ask what is worse for a pensioner than a global economic crisis, the explanation is very simple, you have to look in the mirror: 11 years of Fidesz governance is certainly worse. Otherwise, I would be able to list until evening the dramatic figures behind which more than two and a half million people in Hungary are suffering in an honest gray state. How did you begin to govern them? By eliminating the Swiss indexation of pensions. You know, it was meant to guarantee that pensions would follow the rise in wages. You have eliminated this first thing, and today there are more than 100,000 forints difference between wages and pensions. Let's be honest, you've downgraded the lives you've worked, and only before the election do you like to throw some bucks, buy some votes. During these ten years, every pensioner lost 1 million HUF 200 thousand on average, 1 million HUF 200 thousand by eliminating the pension calculation method of the Gyurcsány government. Write this on your billboards, and put it there, honourable government representatives. Please return this 1.2 million forints to the pensioners. And here I must note, because I know what the answer will be, there will be very little of the 13th month's pension that you will refer to. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yet you took it!]] In the meantime, of course, thousands of disabled pensioners have been eliminated, and basically the service pensions have been abolished, and thousands of people have been deprived of it, and, of course, they have raised the retirement age again, because what else would they do next year, while the old-age pension minimum has not increased by a single forint. But not to be unfair, not to be accused of it, but I must admit that Ukrainian pensioners are paid very fairly. The Hungarian pension of 300,000 HUF or above is not uncommon for Ukrainians, which you receive from the Orbán government. It is true that these people have never worked a minute in Hungary, it is true that they have never paid a single forint tax in our country, but we know that they play a great role in some fidesz mandates in the eastern part of Hungary; this is probably why they deserve a luxury pension from themselves. There is obviously a pension for everyone, a decent pension, not for the Hungarian people alone. And let's see what your 11-year disaster management has done: record inflation, record mortality and record corruption. He was pushed into this state, honourable government representatives, Hungary by the end of 2021. In fact, you have become unworthy of the Hungarians' trust. And if I had to issue a certificate to the government right now, I wouldn't have anything to say but that "one" could sit down. But next April, you're welcome to take this literally, sit down. For example, they will be able to sit down in prison for what they have done in corruption cases over the last 11 years. And, well, don't say goodbye to Pál Völner, there are a lot of conversations waiting for you in the right institutions. We oppositionians know what we're doing, and we're gonna do it. Then there will be a new era in Hungary, the era of a free, democratic, European Hungary, and you will go to the lecso. Merry Christmas.
u2021-12-14-10	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, who wishes to answer on behalf of the government. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-12-14-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm sorry, but it was an embarrassing comment that you made here. I would like to say to you that the 13th month's pension is not short, Congressman, but when you took it away from pensioners in 2009 during the Gyurcsány-Bajna era with a vote, with a pen stroke. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Varga's intervention:]] Mr. Congressman, I didn't say a word when you were lying all over the place, so please listen to me. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The other thing I'd like to say to you is that we've raised the retirement age. You've been misinformed, Congressman. Look at it or ask those of you who have been sitting in this room, you have raised the retirement age, and we have just entered into force, not us, honourable Member. And by the way, I'm asking you, regardless of the matter of pensions, of the elderly, not to threaten me here in Parliament. Because in order to decide who will govern this country, the only thing that is possible is that the electorate will decide in a democratic election. It's not your call to make. Honourable Congressman, When your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, governed, he took everything from pensioners. They took away the 13th month's pension, they took away the pension correction, the real value of pensions decreased by 4 percent. You're telling me what inflation is and what they're going to do. Well, the real value of pensions is down by 4 percent! [[9.30]] You have tripled the price of gas, twice the price of electricity, which, by the way, has hit older people, pensioners. You broke the pensioners when they were in government. And to take forward what I would like to say at the end, honourable Member: Mr Péter Márki-Zay, appointed Prime Minister candidate for the Left [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] he still said that he considered the 13th month pension unnecessary, that he did not agree with the reduction of the rent, and that he did not respect the elderly. Congressman, it also shows that there are no two lefts, there is one left. What was taken before 2010 would now be taken away again if you came to government. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That's the thing, Congressman. Moreover, your fellow Members, when they sat here in Parliament, did not just take away their 13th month pension. The child was reduced to two years; they wanted to make health care pay; we prevented it in a successful referendum with the people; they wanted to introduce a property tax and I could still list the measures that affected young people, families with children and the elderly. Congressman! We made an agreement with the pensioners in 2010. This agreement is about maintaining the purchasing value of their pensions as long as Hungary has a civil national government. Congressman, the past... [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] Then look at the figures, in recent years, since 2010, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by more than 10 percent. [[Zoltán Varga: That's not true!]] and we will do this again next year, the government has decided that as inflation will be higher than the inflation adopted by the Fiscal Act next year, it will not increase pensions by 3 percent, but by 5 percent. In addition, honourable Member, whether you like it or not, we will give back to the elderly the 13th month pension that you have taken from them, and we have paid the largest pension premium of all time in November, not only to those receiving old-age pensions, but also to those receiving pension-like benefits. [[Zoltán Varga: Before the election!]] , who is receiving invalidity benefits and other benefits. You are talking nonsense, Congressman, because you know as well as I do that since 2016, when economic performance gave you the opportunity under the law, we gave pension premium in the form of a pension certificate and a voucher in the form of Elizabeth's voucher HUF 509 billion plus payment to pensioners in addition to pension increases. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] So I ask you to pay attention to this; this is not happening now, but since 2016 and only since 2016, Congressman, because you have already destroyed this country once before 2010. In 2010, when we came to government, the country was on the verge of bankruptcy, and by the way, the pension register, and first we had to put the country back together with the people, so that we could raise the elderly, raise family support, and help young people start their lives. So, Congressman, I will say this once again, and not for you, because you will not understand it, but for those who follow Parliamentary mediation, do not let them be deceived, there are no two lefts, there is one left that was taken before 2010, they would take it again, but we will not allow it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-14-12	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech on the subject of current issues. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-12-14-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Today, if we appreciate and talk about what has happened in the last 11 years, we must also assess the problem that Hungarian residents, Hungarian taxpayers and Hungarian families consider very serious in Hungary today. In addition to the livelihood crisis, what they say is one of the most serious situations in the health sector in recent years. Of course, we can say that not only Hungary has been plagued for two years, but the world is plagued, but then we need to see what the Fidesz-KDNP government has done in the last two years during the epidemic. According to today's data, we've lost 37 079 of our compatriots due to the Covid outbreak. I think these numbers are talkative. And what were you doing in the middle of the plague? They ordered a study for 350 million forints, which should be about how health care is transformed. When we wanted to learn about this transformation study as opposition politician, what did you do? They've been encrypting the study for ten years so we don't get to know it. In the meantime, however, they do not talk about how they would solve the problems of reaching about one million people in Hungary today who cannot access daily care and health care. In August 2019 there are 363 GP districts in Hungary, 460 in August 2020 and 578 in Hungary. You can't disprove these numbers either, because these are official data, data from the institutions you run. Nor is it said that before the epidemic, before 2020, taxpayers spent more than a thousand billion forints on private health care because health care is in a situation where there are waiting lists like we talked about yesterday, that because of the epidemic and the state of health, there are 50,000 people waiting for surgery in Hungary. But if we're talking about disease control, we also need to talk about you being tax collectors for the epidemic. The epidemic was also used to help entrepreneurs close to you steal the Hungarian taxpayers' money. Even though we said on the opposition's part how professionals would handle it, what the government should do, what the government should do, that contact research should be carried out continuously; at least you have already admitted that it was not in Hungary, and that it was not during the epidemic, that Gergely Gulyás, their own minister, confessed to this. And if we are talking about Gergely Gulyás saying that they are not testing continuously in Hungary, and that the Hungarian taxpayers are not getting the test for free because they bought these tests from taxpayers' forints, and they can't use this, then it turns out that your responsible stock management is about the destruction of a 5 billion HUF test, then the warranty of a Russian vaccine worth 600 million HUF is over, and last week the news was that nearly 35 billion HUF Chinese vaccine will be destroyed. We are talking about nearly as much value as the debt of today's Hungarian hospitals, about HUF 40 billion. And you kept saying last week, your Prime Minister, that there was a responsible stock management in Hungary, and that hospital commanders were appointed to deal with these stock management, and all we could see was that you used this epidemic to steal it. And it is particularly outrageous that, in spite of the fact that we said that in addition to vaccination, testing and contact research to prevent vaccination do not have to do that unnecessary registration for people, but to keep giving citizens the opportunity to take vaccinations without registration, you did not listen to us. They launched a vaccination week, and it proved that this opposition and the profession were right, that it was necessary for people to decide on their own without registration to take the vaccine. And if we are talking about health, I can say the same thing my fellow Members have said that the result of your 11-year governance is record corruption, record mortality. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , record inflation. The state of health was also used to make the most of it (the president bell ringing). Steal. He was pushed into this state...
u2021-12-14-14	Congresswoman...
u2021-12-14-15	...Hungary, and you...
u2021-12-14-16	...the time frame has expired...
u2021-12-14-17	...have become unworthy...
u2021-12-14-18	...I'm sorry.
u2021-12-14-19	... the country [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]] control. This will be eliminated in 2022. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-12-14-20	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-12-14-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Congresswoman, allow me to calmly and calmly disprove everything you have said. How much did you spend on health care when you were in government? 1197 billion. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] How much did we accept in next year's budget against your 1197 billion? $2,884 billion, honourable Member. You're the one who took the resources out of health care. Not only am I saying this, but I quoted your Minister of Health here yesterday, who said that in 2006 they started by realizing that there was no money, there was a need for austerity, and most were taken from health care. [[9.40]] I'm not saying it! He's not on the right! The Minister of Health of the Left himself wrote that the left took the most from health care when they governed in 2006, and the consequences were that hospitals were closed down. In our time, we developed hospitals: 91 rural hospitals, 54 clinics and 107 rescue stations. What have you done? They shut down hospitals. You've eliminated 16,000 beds! You've laid off 6,000 medical workers! We didn't deal with firing health workers, we did deal with creating cover to raise their pay. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You say everything the Fidesz steals, the Fidesz steals all the money. If that were the case, could it have been that, compared to 2010, when a beginner doctor had a salary of HUF 129 500, from 1 January next year it was not HUF 129 500, but HUF 619 053 for his gross basic salary? [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes!]] [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes!]] [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes!]] A doctor working 20 years ago, you so appreciated his work for HUF 165 785, from 1 January next year this HUF 165 785 will be HUF 1 342 511. (Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes!) The work of a doctor at the end of his career, who worked more than 40 years ago, was evaluated with a gross basic wage of 262 345 HUF. This 262 345 HUF will be 2 142 051 HUF from 1 January next year. (Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes!) You're saying that Fidesz stole everything, and there's no money for the wages of health workers, no money for health care, Mrs. Congresswoman? What have you done, the question is: Because there was money for hospital safes. Then they announced that you want to raise wages for health care workers, all you need is the consent of the patients, so they're going to introduce a visit fee to turn that money in and raise wages for health care workers. This one looks familiar. We'll take it from here. They said if the patients paid, the doctors would make more money. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] What did they do next? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] Visit fees were introduced, hospital daily allowances were introduced, and salaries were reduced for both doctors and nurses, since they had taken away their 13th month allowance. When you told people that everyone who saw a doctor should pay separately for this to the doctor, not only did they not give it to the doctor, but they even took it away from the doctors. When are we going to talk about money being taken from health care, honourable Member? Not only do I say this, not only does your health minister, Lajos Molnár, say that the biggest restriction was in the field of health, but the OECD also says so, because according to his statement, between 2003 and 2009-10, when you were in government in Hungary, there was no other Member State in the OECD where health expenditure per capita would have decreased. They've grown in every country. There was only one country, and there was only one government that reduced health expenses per capita, and that was your government. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What a shame!]] You want to return to Hungary and justify that your health policy must be implemented. What would the Hungarian people expect? Let's say we know a little bit, because your health politician, Imre László, said that there are too many hospitals in Hungary, that he would close 45 percent of hospitals in Hungary, and he is your health politician. In the last five or six years, there have not been many doctors in the benches on the left. You are so appreciative of health care that even a medical representative is rarely admitted to Parliament, after two years he has resigned from his mandate, but it may have only been a year, he may have been the only doctor who has been in the benches of the left for the last half decade and would shut down hospitals. This would await Hungarian health care: hospital closure, which obviously involves dismissal of healthcare workers, and continuous closures, privatisations and restrictions. Your health policy has always been based on austerity. We hope that this will never come back in Hungary again. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And we also hope that the 73 percent increase in nursing wages and the two-and-a-half-fold increase in medical wages can be continued in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-14-22	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab Group leader, Jobbik Group has applied for a pre-meeting speech: Merry Christmas! It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-12-14-23	Thank you for the floor. Orbán said a few years ago that by 2030, or about eight years later, Hungary will catch up with Austria. Colleagues! You mean prices? 'Cause if so, I'll report that we've already caught up with the Austrians, and we're just about 30 years behind in salaries. I recently held a street forum in Sopron, where people said [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Was it a strangulation?]] That they not only go to work in Austria but also to shop, because some food is cheaper in Vienna than in Vienna, and, you know, the problem is that wherever I go in the country, I hear the same thing everywhere. Many people from Borsod, Abaúj, come to work in Slovakia, and from Peace and Romania, because sometimes it is more worthwhile to work or shop there than at home. Colleagues! What have you done with this country? What? What have you done with the country that was once the leader of the region, and now we're on the verge of people fleeing from here to every direction of the wind rose, so expensive is life? It's almost a weekend shopping luxury, you leave so much money at the register, and the holidays are just coming up. At such prices, how can you live, fellow Members? You guys beat your boobs here with the 13th month's pension coming up next year, before the election, and the payback. Prices in this country are rising to such an extent that the money has long since been left in shops and gas stations. What you're getting next year, you're taking away from them every single shopping every single time you refuel. Or do you think 480 petrol is cheap? No, fellow Members, 480 petrol is expensive. And do you know why? That's because you put a lot of taxes on it, like 50 percent. How long are you going to do this? How much longer do you want to profit from the Hungarian people? When are you going to reduce the taxes on fuel, as you have demanded of the opposition? Or when do you at least want to reduce the VAT on basic foods? There is no other country in the European Union where 27 percent of the government's VAT is on basic food. In Ireland, the government collects zero percent VAT on bread, butter and sugar. And at home, we pay you the 18 and 27 percent VAT that you collect from everyone and every shopping, from the poorest? This is the real loan shark! When you pick up 27 percent of your tax after a kilo of potatoes from the poorest pensioner, just because this little pensioner doesn't want to starve to death. And then you talk about how Hungarians feed healthier? Buy more fruit, vegetables, more vitamins? With what? With the $80,000 pension and the $140,000 salary a junior cop takes home? This? For the past 12 years, you have fooled Hungarian people with nothing but that our economy is so strong and so strong. All we have heard from you in twelve years is that one of the strongest economies in the European Union is Hungarian. The country is now being colonised by Hungary moving forward. Colleagues! Don't push it. Don't push it. This balloon's blown! The economy is on the verge of collapse, and now the Hungarian people feel it on their wallets. The forints are so weak, people's money is getting less and less, prices are skyrocketing, and you're just slumming and slurping! The EU money will be eaten up, the country will be flooded with Eastern loans, and even after this money is not enough for you, Hungarians will be taxed to death, and then there will be billions of Royal Luxurious Monkeys to build on His Majesty's Hatvanpuszta to say just one thing! [[György Szilágyi: Shame!]] Next January, the freeway stickers will be raised. Here, limp, here's a bump. It's not enough to fuel at a record price, it's not enough to buy food at a record price, to pay more for motorway use next year, because according to you, inflation needs to be followed, that's the official text. Very interesting, with the 12 grand family allowance and the 28 500 minimum pension, you don't have to follow inflation somehow. You're all proud to have frozen the fuel prices for three months. Colleagues! The family and minimum pension have been frozen for 13 years, and hasn't increased by one forint since! Is this how you want to catch up with Austria in eight years? Don't make me laugh. With you, the Slovaks will not be caught! I could, of course, demand that the VAT on basic foods be reduced immediately. I could demand that, with immediate effect, the taxes on fuel be reduced, that they leave more money than people. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tell it to Márki-Zay.]] But it's easier if we relieve you and do it ourselves. And now feel free to read me some of the quotes from Márki-Zay Péter about gasoline and VAT. [[Moors and interrogations in the pro-government benches.]] One thing is certain: after the change of government in this country, a programme will be implemented that is felt and meaningful [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] It will reduce the burden on the Hungarian people, whether it be a tax reduction, whether it be an increase in wages, whether it be the resolution of pensions. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You're right!]] You've pulled too much skin off the Hungarian people, and now we're going to let them live! And to do that, we don't need more posters, we need more money. Merry Christmas, everyone. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-12-14-24	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2021-12-14-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I remind you that you did not win the presidential election. [[Peter James: That was not the question! Nacsa Lőrinc: Number four!]] ♪ but ♪ , you may want to [[Peter James: Explain the question! Rumors and interruptions in the ranks of Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] He doesn't remember, but... [[Peter James: I asked about VAT and excise duty!]] It was won by Péter Márki-Zay, who, in any political sense, is your boss, and I suggest you listen to him. [[9.50]] For example, you have to stand by the fact that you don't have to have a minimum wage, that's what he says. You have to stand by the fact that you don't have to cut the rent, that's what he says. You have to stand by the fact that you don't need a 13th month pension. But right now, I'd like to ask you about a sentence of your opinion as a countryman. Péter Márki-Zay says that rural people are simple and ignorant [[James Peter: Let's switch places, Bandi!]] who need to be informed [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And they wouldn't be able to decipher a crossword puzzle. [[Peter James: Ask a question, I'll answer it!]] For you, as a countryman [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] What do you think of that? Do you agree with that? Do you agree with Péter Márki-Zay? [[James Peter: What about VAT?]] To return to your activities, if I may say so, it is the end of the year, and we appreciate your activities, as you were the loudest person in Parliament. Well, he didn't win the Prime Minister's election, and on the day of the election, he was. [[James Peter: But what about VAT?]] I'm sure you'll be Prime Minister. [[Peter James: I asked you a question about VAT, Baba Bandi!]] This is the biggest political failure of the past year. [[Péter Jakab: As a former buddy, a financial stunt! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] But now, let's look at it as the biggest critic in the government. He did, for example. [[Peter James: I asked you a question!]] the government's home-building program. He criticized it so much that when we took a closer look at your activities, you used the CSOK. [[Moors and voices from the pro-government benches, among them: Oh!]] So, when you stand up in Parliament, [[James Peter standing up: Bandi, I did not embezzle 83 million! Intercoms from Jobbik: Völner!]] You're criticizing me, by the way. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] When he goes home to Miskolc, he does something else. [[György Szilágyi: Tour de Mezőtúr! Peter James: I did not embezzle 83 million as your colleague! György Szilágyi: Bike ride!]] But you also had a special understanding of Jobbik's rental program. [[György Szilágyi: Bike ride! Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] It turns out that this year you also bought several apartments in Budapest, involving your relatives. The high rental price has been criticized [[James Peter: Oh, yeah! My relatives dared to buy an apartment!]] But when you're on rent, you're on income, so this isn't such a bad activity, are you? [[Peter James: Uncle Laci, the chief of staff!]] He criticized the government's interest policy. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then, when you have to take out a loan to buy an apartment for your family and for yourself, of course, the government's program is good. [[Peter James: You will apologize in court, won't you? Then you won't have immunity!]] Then he accuses the government of corruption, but when it comes to the fact that Parliament rents you an apartment, it turns out he doesn't live in it, and according to some media reports, the same apartment will be rented once more, in Hungarian, an apartment with two rents. [[Peter James: You're lying again!]] This is Jobbik's rental program. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Liar! What are you talking about? Don't talk about that, talk about the executive mob. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] But it's very interesting, you tried to play the poor guy. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: He's lying!]] James Buga, that's what you were trying to do. [[György Szilágyi: Mezőtúr Buga! Let's ride a bike.]] But it didn't work out either. The poor lad could not be played because it turned out that he was one of the richest members of Parliament, with a HUF 2.4 million income. [[James Peter: What is your income, Bandi?]] But if we add up all the benefits, it's more than HUF 6 million with a car and a driver. [[Peter James: What you said will be done at the D.A.'s office! At the D.A.'s office!]] But believe me, there is a resemblance between you and the poor lad, James Buga. You know that, don't you? Hiding. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But you're not hiding in the wilderness like James Buga [[Peter James: Where is Judit Varga? György Szilágyi: Let's play sports! Field trip! Interviews from Jobbik's ranks, including, "Where's Judit Varga?"]] He's hiding from the public and the truth in apartments in Pest. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. James Peter: Where? György Szilágyi: Let's play sports!]] And it's also very interesting that the poor lad, James Buga, worked at night [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] You're very fond of the night shift, too. [[Peter James: You're confusing me with Szájer!]] Obviously, it worked more efficiently at night. But you know what? [[James Peter: You're confusing me with the Mouth, Bandi!]] There was a role he played... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Z. Carpathian Daniel standing: Shame!]]
u2021-12-14-26	Please, have a seat and finish it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Mr President, don't be ridiculous. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame! Shame on you.]] I'm warning you. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among them: Shame! James Peter: That is why you will fail!]]
u2021-12-14-27	You know what? Ferenc Gyurcsány's clown! That's the part he played. In this role, however, he was successful. Congratulations on that. [[Peter James: How much money do you get? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Gyurcsány Yard needs a clown. [[György Szilágyi: Bike 17 metres! Field trip!]] You played that clown role. And you know, Peter James, for you for Christmas [[Peter James: What else is there in the last row? Read.]] The clown has arrived. [[He shows up a clown with a rattle cap. Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Peter James: Take it to your grandchildren. The speaker puts the clown figure on Peter's table, who stands up and throws it back on the chair of András Tállai, and then sits next to the chair that has been closed in the meantime.]] Merry Christmas. [[A long applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-14-28	Dear Parliament, It may be the last day, but I'm still asking everyone for more seriousness. [[Peter James: You should have said that on the march, comrade!]] Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, representative of the KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Biology or ideology? What's more important in kindergartens and schools? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[György Szilágyi: Tour de Mezőtúr!]]
u2021-12-14-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When we are born, our parents remember our first words, we also remember the first words of our children or the first words of our relatives, in many cases the mother or the father. That's what many children say for the first time in their lives. We see proposals from time to time in Brussels that would replace those exact words with parents or parents 1 and parent 2. [[Bence of Turdai laughs.]] The word that every newborn has said for the first time for thousands of years, for each child, and parents are moved by it, obviously when it is said for the first time, well, those words are exactly the words I want to ban so that it cannot be used officially. In recent days, such a wide range [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] bringing together almost every major church... [[James Peter: Come on, let's go! Nacsa Lawrence: Where? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2021-12-14-30	Mr. Peter James, may I ask you to please sit down and stop yelling in the Chamber, I warn you. [[James Peter: Or what? Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: And put on the mask! Some of the MPs from the government are recording with their phones. Peter James: Do you take pictures of children? Dr. Répássy Róbert: You seem to be freaking out.]]
u2021-12-14-31	I'll keep going, thank you. In recent days, a broad church declaration has seen the light of day, which may not have been the case in Hungary: the representatives of Catholic, Orthodox, Protestant and Jewish churches and churches have shared faith in family and marriage. [[Peter James and some of his fellow Members are leaving the Chamber. Peter James, on his way out: Good work!]] I would also like to read one of the sentences of this statement:. We, representatives of the underwritten Catholic, Protestant, and Orthodox churches, as well as of Jewish religious communities, are confirming the importance of Jewish and Christian values for marriage, family and human dignity, in the light of the Hanukkah's candles, and in response to the growing social disputes in recent times. So the time has come when these denominations, these churches, have jointly confirmed how important family is, how important marriage is. Not only was this a new joint announcement, but we also saw a precedent lawsuit, because one of the Christian public life portals, vasarnap.hu, was sued by a gay couple with the lawyer of the Soros organization Háttertérárság, because they were known for themselves in an article. The article described that in Hungary only men and women are allowed to adopt together, so a special couple can apply, and couples of the same sex can only adopt children together if the legislation is played out. He described reality, the truth, so he was sued. Today we are talking about a revolution and a lawsuit for telling the truth, but second of all, vasarnap.hu won the lawsuit. No wonder he only described the truth, but it seems that this may give rise to lawsuits for many. We also see that many people in Brussels seem to have lost their senses. We have seen a work piece in which the word "Christmas" was banned a few days before Christmas. Think about it: The message of Christmas is that the Saviour has come between us for two thousand years, and the message of salvation is love, that we must love not only those who are kind to us, not only those who are neutral to us, but also our enemy. [[Bence of Turdai: The migrants too!]] In the message of Christmas, Jesus Christ brought us a message of love that we should love even our enemies. It is believed in Brussels that this holiday is exclusional and that the name of this holiday should not even be written down. Well, where is the common sense of people who would forbid exactly the feast of the earthly incarnation of love that this is too exclusional? And we see what they did during the epidemic: while the whole world was defending itself against the coronal virus, they decided that men could give birth, and in many places they preferred to wave the rainbow flag rather than the national flag. It's like democracy, with a little exaggeration, is measuring how many migrants have been deployed in one country and how many free non-transmutation surgeries have been performed. But these are not new, we've been reading similar sentences for 150 years, when ideology was overwritten by biology by LGBT, we can say that a sugar-free communism, a sugar free communism, when Marx said that we were replacing home education with social [[Péter Ungár: Marx didn't say it, but Engels said it!]] when he wrote that the earthly family should be destroyed in theory and practice, when Engels wrote that the care and education of children would become a common concern, or even Buharin said that the child was not the property of the parent, but the property of the society into which it was born. However, we believe that parents have the right to decide on the education of children, and for the first time in Europe Hungarian parents will have the opportunity to decide on this in a referendum, because they can decide what is more important, biology or ideology, parents can raise the child, or they will allow different LGBT organizations into kindergartens and schools for the transfer of children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[10.00]]
u2021-12-14-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Noise in opposition benches. Tibor Bana: It's gonna be a heavy bombing! Bence of Turdai interrupts.]]
u2021-12-14-33	Dear Parliament, Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-12-14-34	Congressman Torda, please stop yelling. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-12-14-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, they're actually doing nothing but doing what they did three years ago at Christmas. They were furious here in Parliament, political closed class, left-wing closed class raged in parliament, public media and raged in public spaces. [[Tibor Bana: What are you talking about? Bence Tordai and Peter Ungár intervene.]] By the way, James Peter and his faction continued to do the same here today. That's what they say. They wanted an anarchist coup here three years ago, in the public media, besides violence, they made a fool of themselves. Ágnes Kunhalmi hit the door, she slipped on Varju rails, it turns out Ákos Hadházy likes to walk around in punchy socks. [[Constant intervention from the lines of LMP and Dialogue.]] And in the public squares, policemen were provoked and the sled for poor children was set on fire, and Christmas trees were set on fire. Then the left came together, there was a new period, a three-year period, with more embarrassing cases: they supported a common criminal, Csaba Czeglédy, it doesn't matter. Budapest's traffic failure, filth, garbage doesn't matter. Masses of homeless people don't matter. The mayor's Facebooking. [[Péter Ungár: He doesn't Facebook all day!]] Katalin Czech who ruined the Olympic dream of the Olympic Olympics with EU money doesn't count. James Peter, who is the James of the poor lads, let us say, rages against the workers, does not matter. City Hall's been run Mafia-style, it doesn't matter. They're broadcasting a poison-green ideology that's causing an energy crisis, a shortage all over the world, a drastic price increase, it doesn't matter. A candidate for prime minister who violates all social groups who, although claiming to be a Christian, would still associate with the devil, conspire, it doesn't matter. And here comes another madness, now they have found the great Him, the common denominator, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány Jobbik, DK, LMP, MSZP, Momentum and Together. [[Péter Ungár: It's gone!]] They're blaming the new ideology, LGBTQ, gender. Through this they attack our families, attack our children. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] Although Jobbik made a vague attempt to vote in favour of the government in June in connection with the Child's Law, it voted in favour of the people, but since then the genderlobby has eaten them, just like James did in Paris. [[Defiance. Noise.]] They didn't stand up to the attack on Hungary either, they were behind the ideology of the dictatorship in Brussels. And what does this ideology mean? There's a man named Riccardo Simonetti. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] What did he do? He mocks Christians, the Virgin, and as a special ambassador to the LGBTQ case. Similarly, the European Union, as you said, wants to ban Christmas as a name as a holiday. Why? Because it's a Christian holiday. In England, little boys need to write a love letter for a little boy, a little girl. Why? Because that's what the LGBTQ lobby wants. In Sweden, 17-18 children under 5 years of age each year ask to change their gender. In Belgium, while major surgeries were delayed, 400 non-transmutation surgeries were possible. In Scotland, the law on LGBTQ history, same-sex marriages and transgenders has already been voted in order to teach children about this in schools. In the same way, instead of defending itself against the epidemic, what did the European Parliament do? To give birth to men. And how does the Hungarian opposition, left-wing, react to all this? This is what Márki-Zay said: this is not a danger; otherwise, we will immediately abolish this law, which will be voted by the majority, and will tear up the ballot paper. István Ujhelyi called it stupid. The referendum was said to be a day of lie, a mockery of democracy. According to Bence of Turdai, it's a brownish bullshit. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] According to Antal Csárdi, there is no referendum among the most important tens of thousands of cases in Hungary today. András Fekete-Győr confirmed in a radio conversation that he would allow transsexuals to have sexual education classes in kindergartens and schools. We're not gonna let that happen. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and we have turned to the most democratic method, and this is the referendum, and people will respond to that. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-14-36	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Attila Barcza, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-14-37	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Parliament, A hundred years ago, a hundred years ago, Sopron and the surrounding eight settlements decided in a referendum to remain part of the thousand-year-old state, despite the dictatorial decision of the great powers. Loyalty is a historical virtue of Sopron. In 1277 his loyalty kept Sopron Hungarian, so he got a free royal city rank, and in 1921 his loyalty kept Sopron to the nation, thus becoming the most loyal Hungarian city. Loyalty to the citizens of Sopron is a moral command and a sacred duty. In the most critical situation of the nation, Sopron gave all Hungarians faith and hope, when the servitude Hungarians of the great powers and anti-national ideologies turned against the nation. We have shown that by joining forces we can shape our own destiny, defend our truths and interests. It is a historical sin of the great powers that they have given and bought Hungary. In particular, one of the losing countries has made claims against Hungary in an unprecedented way. Those in the role of vigilantes have deepened conflict and division in the most critical crisis areas, as have many today. His historical sin is the red reign of terror, Béla Kun, the anti-nationalism of the government of Károlyi, Hungary's vulnerability and weakening. Unfortunately, we can say that today's left is doing the same and would do the same, and they are often proud of that when they manage to embarrass our country in Brussels. And the historical sin of later Communists is the evacuation of loyalists, the evacuation of faithful Germans, Croatians, and the isolation of loyal voters. And it is typical that, following the Bethlen government, the Orbán government first drove its head before the fidelity of Sopron in 2001, then in 2011, at government meetings. Our future is then, and our history will be if we stand up for our faith, our values, our country, our home, and now our targeted children. Sopron's mission today is also that of the future: to give the country an example of how to love the country. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Since this is our last meeting this year, I would also like to talk about how we are going to start the next year. Unlike the administration of Ferenc Gyurcsány, crisis management was not about austerity and tax increases. The government's promise to create one million new jobs has been fulfilled, and the significant economic growth caused by the rapid start-up makes measures such as family tax refunds possible. Children's parents get their income tax paid back this year, which is a historic step. No government has ever left so much money for families. Millions of individuals and at least 700,000 businesses are affected by next year's tax reduction measures, leaving the government HUF 1500 billion in the Hungarian economy. It should also be pointed out that young people under the age of 25 will be exempt from the average wage, which means a total of HUF 140 billion for over a quarter of a million young people. At the same time, significant entrepreneurial debt cuts are also in place, and the social contribution, which together corresponds to a tax reduction of 600 billion, is reduced by 2.5 percentage points. [[10.10]] One of the most important achievements of this year is that the wage agreement was signed last Monday, resulting in the increase of the minimum wage from January to HUF 200,000 and the guaranteed minimum wage of HUF 260 thousand. This means that the minimum wage will be higher in Hungary by 2022 than the average wage during the governance of the Gyurcsánys. But the year also starts with an increase in wages in the cultural, social, military and law enforcement sectors, as well as in educators. That's what I think, and we think that this is the way we need to go, and we need to go on this road together. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-14-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-12-14-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The city of Sopron can count on the government's support for its loyalty under all circumstances, as can all Hungarian cities. Ladies and gentlemen, We are closing a difficult and long-lasting year, where the plague that has been devastating for the world for almost two years is the main cause of the difficulties. For two years, this epidemic has threatened people's lives, jobs and hope for the future. Despite all the difficulties, Hungary stands firm in the fight against the virus. I would like to thank all health professionals who have set an example throughout the long months. They set an example of skill, care, and limitless knowledge. Thanks to all the experts who helped fight the virus in any other way: organized logistics, provided protective equipment, or helped with faster administration at a government office. Just as much is the loud thank you to all Hungarian people who have followed the rules in the most difficult months and put the safety and health of the community first. We don't know how much longer we're going to have this plague, but the vaccine is already in our hands, and with this strong cooperation, we're gonna put the plague behind us sooner or later, and we're gonna make sure it does. Dear House, Despite the difficulties caused by the virus, the ability to restart the economy is also irrelevant. We have every chance that this year economic growth exceeds 6 percent, which is well above the EU average. I also think it is a serious achievement that the unemployment rate is back to 4 per cent, to be exactly 3.9 per cent, with the EU average being close to 7 per cent. How wages develop in the process? Despite the epidemic, they grew by nine percent in a year. In the meantime, sectoral wage increases are also being carried out, wage increases have been received or received by nurses, doctors, daycare workers, social and cultural workers, law enforcement workers, soldiers and university instructors. Meanwhile, the minimum wage increases to HUF 200,000. Remember, at the beginning of the government, it was 73,000 forints, the difference is nearly three times the difference. The family support programme has also been expanded. In addition to tax incentives, baby shower support, VAT reduction and CSOK, you can already use housing renovation support, green-COCs and village CSOK. Public support for baby bonds is increasing, and families raising children will be able to get their income tax paid back this year in 2022. These are results in which millions of Hungarians work. But we can't take this for granted because we know and see what the left wants, and we saw what they did when they came to government opportunities. At that time, economic shrinkage was 7 percent, and now economic growth will be at least 6 percent. At that time, unemployment was 12 percent, and now it's down to 4 percent. At the time, the average wage wasn't as high as the minimum wage. During the time of left-wing expertise, the key to personal income tax was up to 36 percent, and now it is a single 15 percent, so that from 1 January, the under-25s do not have to pay income tax. Then nothing controlled the energy prices, and now we protect the Hungarian families with official prices. Then they immediately started to break down the family support system to become a currency credit tsunami, there was no support, but it became indebted to hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. The examples, the differences, I could tell you a long time. They all prove that the current policy of economic growth and construction is separated by a world that separates the left from its austerity mania. Many years have passed, but that has not changed. We are also working the following year for a country whose economy is becoming less and less dependent on others, which is increasingly on its own feet, and its consequences and positive effects can be felt by every generation in its own life. Dear House, Since this is the last parliamentary session, I would like to wish everyone a blessed holiday. I wish all my fellow Members a Merry Christmas, including those who have wanted our political loss all year round. Despite all our political debates, let us be united by the conviction that we are working for a country worth standing up for and protecting. But most of all, I wish all Hungarians a merry Christmas, live in any part of the country. Political debates wait for me, and I wish everyone a new year free from epidemics, good health and growth in all areas of life. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-14-40	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal for a political declaration rejecting the post-Cotonou agreement on international action against migration follows. Proposal by representatives of István Simicskó, András Aradszki, János Hargitai, János Latorcai, Bence Rétvári, Zsolt Semjén, Miklós Seszták, Imre Vejkey, László Földi, Péter Harrach, István Hollik, Hajnalka Juhász, Attila Móring József, Lőrinc Nacsa, Miklós Soltész, László Szászfalvi and János Süli KDNP Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, rapporteur for the political declaration, for the first time in the debate. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the Member that she has a total time frame of 20 minutes for the opening speech, her speech during the debate and the rejoinder. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-12-14-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Our basic law provides for the protection of our constitutional identity and our Christian culture. The question of the decision-making of immigration is the sovereign right of each Member State. Unfortunately, in the international world, there is a growing tendency for international agreements to conceal gender perception or support for migration by direct or cross-references. The aim of the Hungarian government is to stop migration and treat it locally, to help the countries that issued it locally. This is what our law on international development cooperation and humanitarian aid serves, which was adopted in 2016. One of the main problems and the most problematic part of the post-Cotonou agreement is that migration is highlighted in a positive light, the text of the draft agreement is not balanced, because it does not address public and national security issues in the area of migration, it does not address the relationship between terrorism and migration, the public health risks, and it does not address the problem of launching a so-called pull factor in these international agreements aimed at supporting migration in the European Union. I would also like to stress that last week the Constitutional Court decided that, if the EU rules on immigration are not in place, the Member State, as Hungary, may have additional solutions, and we say that we want to stop migration. I would like to stress that the prelude to the post-Cotonou agreement was the so-called Lomé Convention in 1975. At the time, these Association Agreements had a commercial and development policy objective with the African, Caribbean and Pacific States. The Lomé Convention was extended for five to five years, and the framework for the Cotonou Agreement was established in 2000, but the political dimensions appear here. Despite the fact that poverty eradication or integration of the objectives of the Paris Climate Convention is reflected in this draft, it is a huge problem that it shows a clear trend towards migration: the draft post-Cotonou agreement is both positive and supportive and the post-Cotonou agreement entered into in 2000. [[10.20]] What we also need to see in this respect is that, in addition to supporting gender perception and migration, there is a very serious problem, a procedural problem with the draft agreement in post-Cotonou, a problem that raises issues of the rule of law with regard to the European Commission. The Council of the European Union has stated that a so-called joint agreement on the post-Cotonou agreement will be concluded with shared competence, which in practice means a series of negotiations between the European Union, the Member States and, in this case, the African, Caribbean and Pacific States. At this stage, the European Commission seeks to be an exclusive negotiator. What does that mean in practice? That the Member States are unable to comment on the wording of the draft agreement is EU law. I think that beyond the value system that we cannot accept, it is support for migration and gender theory. This is a huge problem, because as an international lawyer, I also see the trend that the European Commission is seeking stealth powers, and this is a typical and eloquent example of this draft agreement. I therefore think that the political declaration clearly states that stopping migration is important for our country, that border protection is important, and that we should mention so much about genderpropaganda that the draft agreement itself covers the framework for sexual education, sexual orientation and gender identity, and that there are so-called cross-references to UN and EU conventions. I would also like to emphasise that the United Nations adopted its Global Pact in 2018, and this kind of draft of the post-Cotonou agreement is a tiny European version of it. We need to see trends that in many cases these draft agreements hide genderpropaganda and support for migration and therefore pose dangers. We considered it important to present this on behalf of KDNP and ask for support for the adoption of the political declaration, which aims to ensure that Hungary is not party to the post-Cotonou agreement. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-14-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Member that she has a total time frame of 15 minutes for speaking and rejoining in the next debate and for saying the closing word. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Vargha wishes to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-12-14-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to say a few words on behalf of the Government to the motion for a parliamentary political declaration rejecting the post-Cotonou agreement. This agreement, which aims to put on a new footing political, trade and development cooperation relations between the European Union and 79 African, Caribbean and Pacific countries, will be in a state of readiness to sign at the beginning of 2022, after long negotiations. This agreement, if we look at the signatory countries, the European Union and the 79 countries and look at it, would give us a strategic and long-term framework for cooperation between these two groups, but it is equally important to examine whether the agreement contains a text that is acceptable to both parties. I would like to stress that, of course, we recognise the importance of maintaining and further deepening cooperation with the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries, but we have a number of concerns about the text of the post-Cotonou agreement. These have been consistently represented by Hungary in the drafting and negotiation process, but those contested texts are nevertheless published in the agreement. I would also like to emphasise that the regulation of migration falls within national competence, so that each Member State has the right to make its own decision. The agreement currently highlights one of the most challenging migrations for the European Union in a positive light and stresses its benefits without mentioning the serious security and health challenges associated with migration. Therefore, our position, Hungary, remains unchanged in this respect: instead of encouraging migration, we must focus our efforts primarily on addressing the root causes and improving local conditions and living conditions in order to avoid new migration flows. In addition, Hungary considers that the wording of the agreement on sexual and reproductive health and rights differs on several points from the commonly accepted language of the Sustainable Development Framework, Agenda 2030. The Agreement also refers to other international documents which contain provisions on sexual orientation and gender identity which cannot be supported by Hungary. This is unacceptable for Hungary, given its opposition to the values of family and parent-child relations represented by the Fundamental Law of Hungary. At this stage of the negotiations on the agreement, it is no longer possible to amend the text in a favourable direction for our country, and we therefore agree with the Government's motion for a KDNP to reject the signing of the post-Cotonou agreement. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-14-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the State Secretary that, in the event of his further participation in the debate, a time frame of 6 minutes is available for the speeches. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-12-14-45	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed international action against migration, the rejection of the post-Cotonou agreement, P/17816. Proposal for a policy statement No 1. The summary report of the committee is set out in Rule 82 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 20 votes in favour. Ladies and Gentlemen, You must see that we, the Fidesz-KDNP, stand by our country's rights. Our country has the right to protect its citizens and to protect its Christian values and Christian culture. As a nation of solidarity, we know that it is our duty to help those in distress, but at the same time we need to find a solution that does not create new problems, but brings lasting and joint and several solutions. We therefore believe that it is not the problem that must be imported into our country and Europe, but that help should be brought to the problem area, thus protecting the colourful and traditional culture and national values of both our country and the other country. Hungary is acting according to these principles, which is also based on the fact that the migratory pressure on Europe today is mainly due to the citizens of countries whose population is all over Europe's endurance. I find it contradictory that the Union is campaigning for sustainability today, while emphasising the positive effects of unsustainable migration by completely ignoring and even concealing the negative effects. In addition, this agreement is completely incompatible with the Hungarian Child Protection Law, as it also contains references that would extend the framework of sexual education to the subject of sexual orientation and gender identity. [[10.30]] This agreement is also incompatible with the Fundamental Law of our country, according to which no foreign population can be deployed in the territory of our country. Of course, we welcome any person in Hungary who has a residence permit, comes to visit, or who, on the basis of an individual request granted by the Hungarian authorities, must always act according to the will of the Hungarian people and according to the laws. In order to protect Christian culture, our Fundamental Law also states that Hungary protects the sanctity of the family, which is one of the most important cornerstones of our nation's survival. And the basis for the sanctity of the family is marriage between a man and a woman, which is also stated by our Fundamental Law, and the natural gender-free relationship between the parent and child. Our basic law also states that the mother is a woman, the father is a man, and we do not want to change that. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, Hungary cannot be part of the current form of the post-Cotonou agreement. In view of what has been said, the proposal for a political declaration submitted must be supported, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-14-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I would like to inform you that the factions have a 10- to 10-minute timeframe, and the independent representatives have two minutes. Two-minute contributions during the debate should also be included in the timeframe. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-14-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We're at one of the last debates in the fall session. It is a special pleasure for me to report on the political declaration before us, following yesterday's meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, where a unanimous Commission decision on inclusion was taken. As we have heard from the author, Hajnalka Juhász, the negotiations were therefore concluded in April this year on a new partnership agreement following the Cotonou Agreement between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific States, which sets out the framework for political, economic and sectoral cooperation for the next 20 years. I would like to highlight and stress the global nature of this agreement, since it concerns one and a half billion people who are citizens of more than half of the UN Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, then what's wrong with this new agreement? You could ask any one of us. Well, the devil hides in the details, keeps the folk wisdom, and if someone takes the trouble to read this document, it turns out that unfortunately this is not just a simple renewal, but also, indeed, sensitive additions to the content, above which we, I feel Members of the Parliament, may not go silently. These additions, as we have heard, are against the spirit of our Fundamental Law. The issue of illegal migration, which, as we have heard, is a very important issue, is a phenomenon that fundamentally determines the future of our entire continent. I would remind my fellow Members that the majority of the Hungarian people have already decided to agree with the Hungarian government that illegal migration must be stopped. Therefore, instead of taking the approach of the UN Global Refugee Pact, the security of Hungarian citizens and the effective protection of our borders should be preferred. As my fellow Members have pointed out earlier, our continent is under unprecedented organised irregular migratory pressure both in the southern and eastern border sections. On this point, I therefore feel that the Parliament should make its voice heard and show its position, as we also have the right to speak and to resist the right of the ius Murmurandi and the ius resistendi, i.e. the right of speech and resistance. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the content elements, however, there is another problem, for which I would like to briefly summarise my procedural concerns. In EU cases, the role played by the European Commission in Brussels and the Council of Member States in international treaties is different, depending on the content of the international treaty in question. To put it simply, therefore, when an agreement regulates matters falling within the competence of the Member States, the agreement also requires the consent of the Member States. We also need to remember the free trade agreements between the EU and third countries, where, as I recall, the opinions of the European Court of Justice were also necessary to decide whether an agreement is, so to speak, EU only, i.e. it only regulates matters of EU competence or is mixed, so it is a mixed agreement, which requires the support of the Member States in order to approve it. By the way, the 187-page new agreement was provisionally agreed by the parties in April this year, but it is no coincidence that they could not agree on matters of competence. The point is, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that, in our view, the European Commission cannot act alone in the case of the new agreement. In my view, the Lisbon Treaty does not provide any legal basis for this. In the ancient Roman era, it was assessed that Nemo plus iuris, i.e. the European Commission, could not claim more rights than the contracts had given it. Therefore, every attempt to combat the so-called stealthy extension of powers must be prevented and addressed. In view of the fact that the new agreement also concerns immigration policy falling within the competence of the Member States and gives rise to a gender perspective, Hungary must take action against this. The new agreement, as we have heard, refers to documents that would extend the framework for sexual education to include sexual orientation and gender identity, so the adoption of this is contrary to our Fundamental Law and the Child Protection Law. Mr President, The Fidesz faction therefore supports the fact that the government in the Council of the European Union will prevent Hungary from taking part in the present form of the post-Cotonou agreement and doing everything to protect the relevant provisions of the Fundamental Law. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this motion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-14-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent representative. A two-minute time frame is available for the speech. Here you go.
u2021-12-14-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The question is, where is the opposition? It would have been 50 minutes before the opposition representatives were told why this KDNP proposal is false. I will tell you in a moment that, by staying away from signing this agreement, our country will also achieve that 79 African countries will not guarantee that if illegal migrants come to Hungary or Europe, they will take them back. This proposal is and this process shows how ultraliberal EU officials shift the votes of voters to populist, often misleading governments. This situation, which has now evolved, is indeed not the style of Fidesz, not the KDNP, not the Hungarian government and not the political public, but the style of the ultraliberal housewives coming from comfortable well-being to the scenes of the European Union, which I will tell you, for example, what chapter it has created this April. [[10.40]] Robert Dussey, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Togo, is one of the main negotiators on this subject, and the Finnish Commissioner, who takes care of this agreement, says at the hearing to Togo's Foreign Minister: look, here are two very important problems, one is that homosexuality is illegal in some African countries and does not comply with those European principles. The Foreign Minister of Togo says: but please, this is a cultural issue, and we cannot transform the cultural relations and thinking of 79 countries for such an agreement. And this mentality generates the fact that the populist political forces in the countries of the European Union are in government, because they are unable to step out of housewife thinking and look at such an agreement globally. You have been able to present this here because in the European Union, in the European Commission, such irresponsible and self-righteous ultra-liberal people are sitting. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-12-14-50	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, who wishes to reply on behalf of the rapporteur. You have the floor.
u2021-12-14-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, allow me to thank my fellow Members for their support for the political declaration, thanking the Committee on European Affairs and the Legislative Committee for its work. My fellow Members have long analysed both the positive and negative aspects of the agreement, calling attention to the dangers, such as the strengthening of migration flows in the next period, which is said not only by us but also by international experts and international institutions; the German former Minister of Interior has placed the number of people who will start from Afghanistan only next year, and others can join this wave. So we can see that the migratory pressure is constantly increasing. Up to this year, 110,000 migrants have tried to enter Hungary illegally on the southern border of Hungary, while last year this figure was only 44 thousand people. So my fellow Members can see the pressure on the southern borders of Hungary, on the Balkan route, on the Mediterranean route, and now on the north, on the east, on the Polish, Lithuanian and Latvian borders. In the middle of this situation, the European Commission arrives when the Commissioner for Home Affairs, Ylva Johansson, says that we need more migrants; that without migrants, we could not have solved the crisis of the Crown Virus. And Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm arrives on this issue when she says that there is a need for a declaration that if we take off the ideological part, for example, of the LGBTQ lobby, which would only strengthen migration processes. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You don't understand! You don't understand again!]] With the question of the Member, I fully agree with the question of where the left-wing political groups are, where the left-wing Members are, why they think that they will just stay away from an important debate without any prior indication and not participate in it. I believe that the further strengthening of migration is serious security, civilization, and we now clearly see that there are health risks. In this agreement, we would like to give greater space to the possibility that instead of encouraging migration, the European Union should focus on local circumstances and improving living conditions. We believe that this should be given greater emphasis in the post-Cotonou agreement, not to encourage migration. We also believe that it is not acceptable that migration in such a declaration, in such an agreement, should be reflected only in a positive way, and that its benefits should be stressed to migration, and that they do not add to the serious challenges and serious dangers that this agreement would entail. I also think it is outrageous that migration regulation is being tried, for example, to be taken out of national competence through the agreement; migration is a matter falling within the competence of national sovereignty. The Hungarian people said no to immigration on several occasions, in referendums and in parliamentary elections and in national consultation, and said no to immigration quotas. In addition, Hungary's Fundamental Law protects family and parent-child relations, but we believe that the document referred to by the agreement goes against it, which would extend the framework of sexual education to the subject of sexual orientation and gender identity. Certain elements of the agreement are therefore incompatible with the Fundamental Law of Hungary and with the values we represent. For this reason, we reject the signing of the post-Cotonou agreement by Hungary, and in this political statement we would also like to ask the Government not to participate in the signing of this agreement, and to try to do so in the European Union institutions, or, as Parliamentary Secretary said, to make further efforts to change the wording, or to reject the agreement. I am asking you to give Parliament this mandate, this request to the government. Today, everyone will have the opportunity to vote on this political declaration, which will already bind the government's hand on this issue. I hope that we can all stand united in favour of Hungary's security and values. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-14-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, Following the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. Law and Act XLV of 2020 on Retail Tax. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/17882. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the Secretary of State, Mr Deputy Minister, that you have a total time frame of 25 minutes for further speech and presentation in the debate. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry, the author. Here you go.
u2021-12-14-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Reducing food waste is one of the greatest challenges of our time, one of the most important objectives of the strategy from producer to consumer. While in some cases it is not possible to prevent food waste from being generated, it is important to make use of these opportunities in areas where significant results can be achieved in a short time at the level of legislation and enforcement. Prevention should focus primarily on the root causes of the problem, which is to prevent food surpluses at every point in the supply chain. If there is any food surplus, the most valuable use for food that can be consumed is redistribution. This is a twofold goal: in addition to combating poverty, it also significantly reduces the energy and costs to be spent on destruction. The main focus of the system for reducing food waste is the obligation for the largest food retailers to offer food with a minimum durability period to those in need. Other actors in the food chain can participate in this process on a voluntary basis. For this purpose, a central body, the Food Rescue Centre, will be set up to coordinate food redistribution. Food items intended to be offered must be notified in advance to the Centre in order to ensure that food is delivered as quickly as possible to those in need. In addition to gathering and sharing information, the Food Rescue Centre carries out a number of tasks, including awareness-raising and research, summarises good business practices in the field of food trade in order to facilitate the achievement of a neutral ecological footprint, prepares a strategy to reduce food waste at national level, and contributes to the development and review of the national preventive programme, which forms part of the national waste management plan. The food retailers concerned should also draw up a food waste reduction plan to monitor the amount of food waste generated and to keep up-to-date documentation on the implementation of the plan. [[10.50]] The aim of the establishment of the scheme is to reduce food waste; the cost of this should be financed by operators with the highest income. Therefore, we want to cover the costs by increasing the uppermost range of retail taxes. Please allow me to briefly outline further amendments to the proposal to improve food chain safety. In accordance with the EU food hygiene legislation allowing the donation of food with an expired minimum durability period, the food chain and official supervision law will also be amended. The donation of such food may be made subject to compliance with the requirements of Union legislation. In order to keep food safety fully in mind, intermediate actors involved in the donation process should only carry out this activity in the possession of the FELIR identifier. Thus, the path of these foods will be fully traceable and the risk of food safety can be minimised. Given the need to regulate the transfer of personal data at a legal level, the food chain monitoring information system, which we briefly call FELIR, needs to be recorded on the transfer of data between the Hegyir Information System operated by the National Council of Mountains and the ePincebook system. The exchange of information shall take place in order to carry out the functions of food chain monitoring, viticulture and wine law. The adoption of the bill will also allow the disclosure of the contact details of those with FELIR identifiers. Data published on the information interface operated by the food chain monitoring body may be used to match the participants in the public catering. To sum up, the proposal before this House helps to remedy a major environmental problem and to deliver safe food to those in need at the same time. Accordingly, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support and adopt this bill with their contributions, professional proposals and votes today. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-14-54	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Deputy Minister that a total of 19 minutes are available for further comments in the debate and for closing words. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-12-14-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 December 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and official supervision. Law and Act XLV of 2020 on Retail Tax. T/1788. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 19 votes in favour on the basis of an exceptional procedure, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The main principle of the food chain security strategy is to ensure that food chain products are always healthy, of high quality and of safety, and that all operators are also responsible for their production and distribution. Reducing food waste is one of the greatest challenges of our time. A strategy from producer to consumer is the main objective. We must also apply the system of food saving within these objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that almost one third of global food, some 1.3 billion tonnes, will be lost. All of this is on an annual basis. In Hungary, the surplus food is estimated to reach 50,000 tonnes per year. This is a huge problem, as food production represents the use of large amounts of water of drinking water quality and is also responsible for the emission of greenhouse gases from production. Prevention should focus primarily on the root of the problem. Consequently, food surpluses should be prevented at each point in the supply chain. If there is, however, and unfortunately this is still an unavoidable surplus of food, the best destination for us and the most valuable use of food for consumption is redistribution. The aim of the bill is to prevent food waste, resulting in the reduction of food waste by offering food traders food with a minimum durability period of close to maturity to those in need. This is a twofold goal: in addition to combating poverty, energy and costs for destruction are also being reduced, which is not insignificant. Within the framework of the bill, a food rescue organisation will be set up, as the Secretary of State and Deputy Minister said, Food Rescue Centre, short cut EMK. The Food Safety Centre is established in the form of a non-profit limited liability company, owned by the State, over which ownership rights are exercised by the National Food Chain Safety Office, shortening Nébih. The main task of the Food Rescue Centre is to coordinate national food recommendations, collect and share information, measure food surpluses and reduce food waste. The EMK is contracted by organisations which it has previously registered, which may be members of the Creative Council or other organisations other than members of the Creative Council, such as ecclesiastical or private organisations. These partners will deliver food to those in need at a later stage, of course with proper follow-up. Dear Parliament, The bill before us must be supported, since it aims to achieve a good goal, as it helps those in need to obtain food while protecting the environment, thereby reducing remaining food waste. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-14-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I would like to inform you that the factions have a 30-30-minute timeframe and that the independent Members have an 8-minute timeframe. During the first round of speeches, speeches will take place in a 30-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-12-14-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, This law clearly aims to waste food and reduce loss, thus creating as little food as possible in the chain from production to consumer. We could say it's a civilizational disease, because it's XX. It wasn't something a lawmaker had to think about in the first century, especially around the war period. Unfortunately, we could say that prosperity is coupled with carelessness. We do not plan exactly how much food to buy, the trade chains do not plan how much food to order and how they sell when the vast majority of these foods have a time to consume or a time to preserve. I would like to stress that the current bill, which aims to reduce food surpluses, concerns only food types with a minimum durability period. [[11.00]] This means that for foods that are marked after the end of the period of consumption, for example, fresh goods, usually meat products, dairy products, derived products, should the period of consumption expire, it should not be considered to be passed on with any ideas for any additional uses. But let's see, as is usually the case with waste, what is the pyramid worth following. Maybe the first thing you need to do is not create waste. This is the most difficult challenge, but if waste were not created, we would not have to deal with it here, to re-create legislation and to think about how waste, which appears as an excess, will reach further recovery purposes. As I was saying, it would be best if there were no such surplus. But if it's already done, what do we do with it? This is the main aim of the bill: to get it to those in need through some organizational system. If this fails in its entirety, we should feed it to animals to make use of it there. If we can't get it here, let's set up a system for composting or biofuel production. And if we have not come to the point of using the surplus food at some level, then there is no story, there will be waste, and this will have to be dealt with at some level, we can say, in the form of municipal waste. There's big enough organs to handle this. The proposal is supported by the EU Directive, which allows the placing on the market of products with a minimum durability period if they are to be passed on, not to be considered as placing on the market, since the placing on the market of products with a minimum durability period would not be possible. But this exception here is fortunately an opportunity. For this reason, the government proposes, as many NGOs, charities and other associations involved in this area, to expand the redeployment framework. Turns out it's the bottlenecks of the system. On 8 March 2016, I initiated at the Committee on Agriculture to give each other very detailed information on this issue, because there were already several legends circulating from both Members of Parliament and civil society organisations that the issue was not addressed. At that time, Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary for Food Chain Monitoring, and Balázs Cseh, President of the Hungarian Food Bank Association, had been at our disposal for several hours and reported on the measures that are being taken and how the system works for products that are usually 48 hours closer to the end of the durability period, and then how, how, and how, these civil and charitable organisations can come in contact with the supermarket chains with such products, and what kind of relationship they have with regard to passing on. It was a very useful meeting, and the result of this was, as I said, and as the president of the Hungarian Food Bank Association has made it clear, redistribution is the bottlenecks of this whole system. We now know, based on the latest data, what is the global waste of food. That's almost 1.3 billion tons of scary! While elsewhere we can talk about hunger poverty. In Hungary, about 50,000 tonnes are estimated by professionals. Fortunately, through this aforementioned system of congestion, they can deliver about 10-15 tonnes, deliver them to those in need, or they will not end up as waste by further processing. It would be good if this 10-15 thousand tonnes of saved food would increase to about 20-30 thousand tonnes with the proposed bill, so the government's proposal makes very clear requests. That is that food traders with annual turnover of more than HUF 100 billion must prepare a food waste reduction plan, which they will have to adapt to later. In this food waste reduction plan, they should indicate how much food waste they have generated on the basis of their annual turnover, and how much they would like to deliver to the stakeholders, how much of this they want to deliver to a charitable organisation and how much they want to deliver to the newly established Food Rescue Centre. This will be a hundred percent state-owned body, which will then be the main coordinator, linking up and finding out where there is food surplus and who the host organisations are very wide enough to get it to. On the basis of the bill, the Food Rescue Center connects the surplus company with the relevant charities as a link. Those with an annual turnover above HUF 100 billion should act as described in their food waste reduction plan towards charitable organisations, and if they do not have or are unable to place so much, they will be obliged to offer to the new Food Rescue Centre 48 hours before the expiry date. As I said, this will be the organ that will connect those with excesses and the organizations involved, which can use it. I note that organizations under 100 billion HUF annual turnover can voluntarily connect to this system. So we assume that this will not only be a serious help and order for people over HUF 100 billion in terms of what to do with products linked to the expiry date, but it will also be a good opportunity for food trade chains and small stores with lower turnover, as it becomes clear that they do not have to think about destruction immediately, which is the worst version, but there is an additional opportunity to use these foods. For the operation of the whole system, as Mr Secretary of State has said, the hedge fund is 0.02 percent of the retail tax, which will cover the expected operating costs. We see that some countries in Europe, such as France, are already operating a similar system. It is just time for us, who are large food producers, because we are able to ensure the supply of food not only to 10 million people but also to 20 million people, to take the lead in making the most of the food produced. As I have said, the main and preventative principle in waste management is, in general, not to create waste that needs to be cared for afterwards, so there is no other option than to draw attention to this in parallel with this law, as has already been done in education, under 18 years of age, among young children in primary school. I very much remember when in the 1990s the information about the general selective collection of waste arrived, that in the West it was possible to place different types of garbage in different bins, it seemed so foreign at the time, especially in smaller settlements, that, oh, let it be, this is a vision. But through the education system, consciousness formation, sensitivity to the environment could be built, and young people are receptive to it. Now we are completely natural in sorting out waste, and they also have to say that Papa, you know, we have to put it in the other trash bin, that we now have two or three types of plastic boxes for kitchen waste, and we'll sort it out right there. And that happened ten years from now. [[11.10]] I dare hope that by focusing the education system more strongly on this area than wasting food, we can achieve the primary goal of not creating food waste, but if we do, then here is the technology, the technique that the government is proposing now, that in this way there is a public body that can manage the amount of food offered by companies with a full infrastructure, and, as I have said, it will deliver it to those in need, as a link. I believe that this could also be an exemplary system in Europe, when its functionality will be confirmed, that many will observe this and ask for how, based on experience, it can be launched in other countries as well. Thank you very much for your attention and, of course, we would like to support this draft law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-14-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-12-14-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a very important bill with symbolic and serious results right now in front of the Parliament I would also like to thank the Ministry of Agriculture for its work on this, as we see that food waste in the developed world, including in our country, is a very serious issue, which has very serious negative environmental, social and economic impacts. According to a study by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ten years ago in 2011, almost one third of the food produced worldwide will be lost, some 1.3 billion tonnes. It is estimated that in Hungary there is only 50,000 tonnes of food surplus in the trade chains each year. However, the problem is even more serious, as the production of surplus food is the same as food consumed and the destruction of surplus food is also a major waste of unnecessary energy and is unnecessarily polluting the environment. In particular, it is disappointing that while 1.3 billion tonnes of food is going into the trash on a global scale, the number of hungry people has increased to over 700 million. One in ten people in the world are starving or not getting enough food, with about Hungary's population growing every year, with 10 million people growing, and at least 3 billion people cannot afford a healthy diet. In Hungary, while the trade chains generate thousands of tons of surplus per year, only 10-15 thousand tonnes of food was supplied to the charities. I think it is particularly important to talk about such a charitable offer during the Advent period, and also about a charitable amendment of the law, since we have to thank the charitable organisations in Hungary, especially the members' organisations of the Charity Council, because mostly the work of charitable organizations linked to churches and the Red Cross every year, not only in Advent, when more people may think a little bit about our needy fellow citizens, our countrymen, but they are working all year round to help those in need. Therefore, I am particularly pleased that this bill was drawn up with the involvement of the Charity Council and that it came before us, the Parliament, after consulting them. As we can see, the aim of the bill before us is to increase the amount of food that can be saved and that is to be delivered by charitable organisations to the needy from 10-15 thousand tonnes to 20-30 thousand tonnes. The bill was drawn up in a spirit of food waste prevention and the redistribution of food that can be saved. To this end, a Food Rescue Organisation is set up, whose main task is to coordinate food recommendations nationally, collect and share information, measure food surpluses, reduce food waste. According to the bill, a food retailer with an annual food chain inspection fee of over HUF 100 billion is obliged to offer food with a minimum durability period of 48 hours before expiry to the Food Rescue Centre. The bill is also in line with the European Union's latest strategy to reduce food waste. On 3 March 2021, a recent amendment to Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the hygiene of foodstuffs, allowing the redistribution of food with an expired minimum durability period for the purpose of donation, while complying with the requirements of the EU Regulation, was published. In addition, the agricultural portfolio has carried out a wide-ranging social consultation on the bill, as I have heard about the negotiations and, by the way, I have talked to several charities about the bill, and everyone has supported the submission and adoption of this bill, also because it serves a particularly good cause, especially that food which is otherwise unnecessary and that goes into the trash. We Christian democrats consider this bill important, which serves important environmental, social and economic objectives in addition to charitable goals. And since this is our last debate in Parliament this year, as we see it, and that the votes are about to start, I would like to wish my fellow Members and all Hungarian people, wherever they live in the world, a blessed, merry Christmas and a much less rich new year in the virus, but effective, and next year we will continue the country building work that we have done here, on this page, in the last 11-12 years, which is also an element of this bill, and which serves to make Hungary a better place with each decision. We will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-14-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to the first independent congressman to speak. There will be a speech by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member, with an eight-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-12-14-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased when such a proposal comes before this House. There really is an enormous amount of food waste in the world and unfortunately also in our country, and the most shocking thing is that in our country it is often typical even of the social classes that live in poverty; so how interesting it is that in the modern world, a large part of people cannot measure how much food they really need. However, food is basically for our survival, for our survival, although it is also true, because, I suppose, we all have favorite foods, that really, food is also a cultural issue, and very many gourmands often enjoy eating varied foods. However, we still need to pay special attention to this issue. So I'm fully aware of the groundwork. I do not want to offend anyone, but I feel that this proposal has been drawn up very quickly. Although it is true, there is not much time left for this cycle, but I feel that it would not have been a problem at all if a proposal of this kind had been put forward the following year, when we could have been better around it. Let me highlight just one example of this proposal. When you say 5. Article 38/H of the Act on Food Chain and Official Surveillance A new paragraph (1) is added to Article 48 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 to offer to this organisation, which is established at least 48 hours before the end of the minimum durability period, a food placed on the market for more than 48 hours in accordance with the food waste reduction plan. But, fellow Members, let us consider: what if a product has a minimum durability period of 48 hours twice? Then the 48 hours before we have to announce it, how long before the company can do that? Well, the durability period for food really is from one day to two or three years, but there are a lot of everyday foods that can be consumed for 3-4-5 or 6 days. This means that if he has to report 48 hours before, then if he does not offer food with a relatively short duration in one day, he will violate the law and we can see that he will be punished for it. I therefore believe that this should have been done a little better, Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members, it is impossible to implement this rule, and they will not be able to implement it. [[11.20]] They create an incredible administration and labour force that is impossible to achieve without breaking the law. Let me talk to you about one more question, because this law only lasts so long that there is this new Food Rescue Center, and that includes these goods. It's not about people in need, because I think it's about people who need free food or cheap food, they get how it's gonna be organized. I think it's not a legal power to know the detailed rules now, and let's see how this will work in reality, but I would have liked to have at least taken from the Secretary of State's proposal how the mechanism of this is going to work, because think about the enormous amount of food that is going to enter this nonprofit organization right now. In order to create such a serious logistics system, it is necessary to ensure that the people in need do not receive a mass-expanded food as soon as possible, that I cannot imagine who is prepared to organise it today. The government solves much smaller tasks and problems across the country with much more serious difficulties, but we should have seen what we are voting on in a nationwidely organised new institutional system. Excuse me, please, fellow Members, if something goes wrong, people don't say that Fidesz or KDNP or the government did it wrong, but say that this is what politicians do in general. So if this doesn't go well, if it's just a problem for food chains, but it's a nonprofit. you won't be able to deliver these foods to the needy at an appropriate rate, and maybe they'll end up in the trash, so what are they gonna say to us? Half the country's laughing at us! I like them. These food chains have enough money to find the press, which with huge, huge titles on their pages and newspapers shows how you wanted to give food to the needy, but you couldn't. Do you like what I'm saying? We're four months ahead of the election. Those who are otherwise totally unfit for any kind of government or parliamentary role will also get such a reputation from such a problem for themselves, even though if they had been trusted, we wouldn't have come to talk about it at all. Do you understand, fellow Members? Let the political department not create a situation for itself that answers an otherwise very important, truly serious social problem, indeed, to a world phenomenon that we have no idea how this is going to happen, and whether the logistical background is there. So there's no question that I'm going to vote for it, there's no question that I'm happy about it, and indeed, food wasting has to be blocked somehow, just because we're really telling the starving, starving crowds of people around the world that you don't have it, and we're wasting it. Besides, I think that the world is going very far into the need for people to become very self-employed and to start building our lives on self-sufficiency, self-preservation and self-secure standing, because we can already see that those who are attracted to us in the light of our beloved service providers are, in fact, more of a tool for creating a dependent relationship. So especially in Hungary, which can exist in such a wonderful Carpathian Basin, spared a great deal of natural difficulties, in a wonderful natural environment and wonderful talents, we begin to decorate ourselves for survival, and otherwise such a proposal serves us, but we do not do it well. I'm gonna ask you all very, very much, if you're gonna do this, and then you're gonna have to do it, and you're gonna have to do it, and you're gonna have to do it, and you're gonna do it, and you're gonna do it, and you're gonna do it, and you're gonna do it, and you're gonna do it, Make sure that this works perfectly, because if it doesn't, we're all seriously embarrassing ourselves. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-14-62	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, further speeches will now be held. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz Group.
u2021-12-14-63	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Peaceful county is also called the country's larder, not for nothing, because the area of cultivation is above the national average for most crops and other cultures, so we are also strongly involved from the producer and producer side in the change of legislation. A lot of food goes into the garbage, and waste, food waste is nearly half the household, nearly half the cost of catering, commerce, retailing is responsible. This huge amount of food waste is not only an economic problem, but also of great importance for the climate, because, on the one hand, we produce food, it is costly to destroy unused or unused food, and we know that, for example, the use of it as animal food is prohibited by the European Union. The EU has, therefore, taken and intends to take serious steps to reduce food waste, as it needs to measure the amount of food waste in the whole food chain and the aim is to reduce food waste by half by 2030. The destruction of food costs not only money but also pollution. Another question is that many people are not even related to climate problems, although there is a very common connection, and they spend a third or a quarter of the land on the production of food that we do not spend, we do not eat or use. According to the calculations, food waste is responsible for 8 percent of the world's greenhouse gas emissions, and this is a brutally large number, and the production and use of surplus food is a heavy burden on the environment. We also talk about another interesting calculation: if food was wasted by a country, it would be the third largest such polluting country in the United States and China by itself if we considered food waste to be a country. Therefore, reducing food waste from producer to consumer is one of the most important tasks today. The proposed regulation aims to prevent food waste and, as a result, of course, to reduce food waste. International examples show that there is also a need for State intervention to reduce food waste, and we would therefore like to make it mandatory for food retailers to offer food with a minimum durability period, which is expected to become food waste with a near expiry date, to those in need, in order to save food. The largest food retailers would be required to draw up a food waste reduction plan and submit it to the EMS and to appoint a food rescuer. In the food waste reduction plan, retailers can decide for themselves what tools they use to reduce their food waste. Businesses can continue to use their channels and continue their donor activities to date; we know about them only in a narrower way than we would like. They can therefore continue and even further develop this activity. A mandatory offer would be required for the remaining foods at least 48 hours before the end of the minimum durability period. Food with a minimum durability period of less than 48 hours would not be regulated. The retailer can be sanctioned by a food rescue fine in the cases provided for in the legislation, perhaps this is not an irrelevant circumstance. To coordinate the distribution of offered food, a central organisation, this Food Rescue Centre, will be established, and this is a 100% state-owned non-profit enterprise. It is responsible for national coordination of food recommendations, but of course it collects information and disseminates information, helps to implement the food waste reduction plan of food retailers and contributes to the provision of food waste measurement data. [[11.30]] The distribution of the food offered by those in need will hopefully be carried out by the charitable organisations. The aim of the establishment of the scheme is to reduce food waste and the cost of this should be financed by operators with the highest income. Therefore, the costs of operating the scheme would be covered by the increase in the uppermost range of retail taxation. The resulting revenue should be used by the EMK to strengthen the charitable organisations that make the donation. We would not create a new state logistics system for the redistribution of food, but we would strengthen existing charities in order to deliver an increased amount of food that is expected to be offered to those in need. There are initiatives and actions of this kind at the present time, but if we contribute with support, greater attention and awareness to the activities of these civil society organisations, we can achieve significantly greater success in this area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-14-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, you have 32 seconds. Here you go.
u2021-12-14-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that we have lived the last speeches of the year here together, most likely as we are now together, we will not be spending the next Christmas in Parliament. I would like to thank everyone for their work this year, it has been a very difficult year for us as well as for Hungarian citizens, we have not had an easy situation, we have had a lot of debates many times, but I wish everyone that we will continue to do our work in health, happiness, joy and the good of the Hungarian people next year. I wish you all the best.
u2021-12-14-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, I would like to say this again, perhaps on behalf of all of us. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the consolidated debate is closed. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go.
u2021-12-14-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have all been involved in a debate on a bill that is generally common in agricultural laws over the past few years that we agree on. This is a rare moment in Hungarian legislation, but I think I had to highlight this. First of all, thank you very much for the support of the Legislative Committee and its additions, which strengthened its exposure. Congressman Font Alexander, President of the Commission, made a quote or made a reminder that I would like to respond to. Indeed, a long time ago, decades ago, in the life of the rural man, it was a waste of food, it did not exist, I would like to say; every bite, every single piece of value, was used in some way. There was no trash can, there was no trash can, but everything ran out. Now, we're living this world differently, aren't we? For this reason, it is important that the extra food produced on the shelves can be used in the last moments, which is extremely important in relation to this law. It is also important to teach young people and children not only about waste management, but also about the care of food, the preparation of food and, not least, the use of food. This is part of the same conscious work, and last but not least, it is necessary to draw your attention to conscious customer habits so that they can buy as much as is naturally necessary in the family. This does not mean that there will be no food left on the shelves, but it is much more predictable when ordering goods, when processing them, if we are so consciously trying to settle our lives. Thank you very much for Lőrinc Nacsa's speech, and indeed this has been in extraordinary consultation with the Charity Council and the interest representatives, as President-in-Office of the Commission said: it has been discussed in detail with the various representative organisations. I would just like to say this, what Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm asked me as a question, that this material was not prepared in haste. I can safely say that this law is not, because it has just been discussed with each person involved for many hours, and I believe that it has come here to Parliament in a well-founded manner. Perhaps I would still like to say to Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm: I understand your concerns and fears, I fully understand, but if we believe that we can work well, then why not believe that we can also solve this. So, I'm not small-minded, and I'm always trying to get as far ahead of myself as possible to solve as many problems as possible. I'm sure there will be difficulties, no one will dispute it, but if we don't do this for ourselves, we won't be able to solve it. That is why I think it is important that this law be put forward in this way, and thank you very much for your support, which is clear, I think, for all of us. Last but not least, I thank everyone for their statements of support, and I would also like to thank everyone for the work that the Hungarian Parliament has shown in the Agriculture Ministry and in the laws put forward by the Ministry of Agriculture during the conciliation, discussion and negotiation of the year. With a calm conscience, we can all say that the ministerial proposals and laws that have been passed to Parliament have all been voted on in a large part, almost all unanimously, with very small differences. I thank the Hungarian Parliament very much for this, and I thank the co-organisations for their active participation and cooperation, because this could not have been possible without the cooperation of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and the national organisation of the farmers' circles. So thank you so much for this job. I hope that next year we can start the agricultural year with the right amount of fertilizer, safety and good weather, in which we are confident. Merry Christmas. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-12-14-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Minister, for your answers and wishes. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, Allow me to wish you a blessed, merry Christmas, as it is my last meeting day this year, to all of you, your families and your success-rich, successful, happy new year. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear Parliament, Now, since the Parliament will continue its work with decisions from 12 a.m. to 12 a.m. Thank you again for your cooperation, and we'll continue at 12 o'clock. (Recess: 11.37-12.06) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dr. Ádám Steinmetz)
u2021-12-14-69	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. Please take your seats so we can start our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that anyone who has not yet received the package for the declaration of assets can do so at the reception desk at the President's entrance to the Chamber, even today. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. In today's decisions, we also decide to accept proposals requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rule of 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill or a proposal for a resolution, this shall extend without any further specific decision to the withdrawal of the provision indicating the fundamentality of the non-approved regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] Present 137 representatives, far 62. Parliament has a quorum. It follows from the adoption of the report on the activities of the Curia in 2020 entitled "Supporting a Legal Unit and Local Government Normal Control', H/17391. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/17391. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution by 133 votes to five, with one abstention. H/17503 on the adoption of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and accounts for the year 2020. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/17503. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 134 votes in favour, 6 votes against and no abstentions. H/17600 on the adoption of the 2020 report by the President of the National Court of Justice. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/17600. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 134 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 4 abstentions. It follows that H/17390 on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2020. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/17390. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 132 votes in favour, 6 votes against and no abstentions. The T/4073 Agreement between Hungary and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investment is hereby signed. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4073. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 140 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. A series of amendments to the International Convention on the Training, Certification and Watchkeeping of Seafarers, 1978, adopted in 2014, 2015 and 2016 will be published in T/1767. Final vote of bill No 1. [[12.10]] The rapporteur is T/17667/1. No.2 submitted an adjustment to the section of the bill containing the official translation of international treaties in Hungarian to correct spelling errors, which can be accessed by all of them on the House's IT network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1766. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill by 140 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. It follows that the tax measures required in connection with the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2022, as well as certain other measures, T/1766. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17668/8. and the summary report by T/17668/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/17668/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 140 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17668/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 139 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It follows from the Earth Observation Information System and in this context T/17430 on the amendment of certain laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1743/4. No T/17430/5 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1743/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 138 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1743/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 139 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It follows from the publication of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part on the establishment of the Common Aviation Area, T/17431. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17431/4. T/17431/5 and T/17431/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/17431/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17431/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 136 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. Law and Act XLV of 2020 on Retail Tax. T/1788. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment T/17882/2. and a summary report by T/1788/3. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee T/1788/2. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, 1 vote against and without abstention. [[12.20]] The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17882. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 138 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. The P/17816 on international action against migration and the rejection of the post-Cotonou agreement Final vote on the proposal for a political declaration No 1. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the political statement submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of the adoption of the political declaration. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept P/17816. Political Declaration No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the political statement by 137 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. It follows that T/16284 on the implementation of the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2020. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16284. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 6 against and without abstention. We now decide on the provisions of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16284. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 6 against and without abstentions. T/17438 on the amendment of certain criminal law and related other laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17438/6. T/17438/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 2 tabled by Mr László Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 6 votes in favour, 132 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is required for the adoption of points 37-44, 46, 47, 86 and 89 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17438/6. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 138 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17438/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 138 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17438/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 137 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17438/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 138 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. It follows that T/17670, on the amendment of certain laws on financial and economic matters, will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1767/5. T/17670/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17670/5. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1767/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. [[12.30]] We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1767/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. T/17669 on the amendment of certain cultural and other laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/17669/7, and T/17669/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule of Decision is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section T/17669/7 of the MSZP Group A separate vote was initiated on point 11 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the point requested for a separate vote, then on the part of the summarised amendment that requires a qualified majority, then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 11 for a separate vote, which requires a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17669/7. Point 11, which requires a qualified majority, asked for a separate vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points for a separate vote on the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, without voting against, with 1 abstention. We are now deciding on further points 14-17 and 21, 24 and 28 of the summarised amendment proposal, requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17669/7. Additional points requiring a qualified majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17669/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17669/10. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17669/10. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. There is a series of T/17671 on certain regulatory issues relating to emergency situations. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/17671/8, and T/17671/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he maintains the amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The MSZP Group proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he maintains the amendment. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 5 votes in favour, 132 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 61, 62 and 67, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1767/18. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 3 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1767/18. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 134 votes in favour, with 3 votes against, without abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1767/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1767/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. It follows from the transitional provisions relating to the entry into force of Act C of 2021 on the Real Estate Register and the amendment of certain laws relating to real estate registers, spatial planning, settlement planning and cultural objects T/17443. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17443/6, and T/17443/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[12.40]] We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17443/6. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 138 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17443/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 138 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17443/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 138 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. It follows that T/17427 on the settlement of the situation of persons awaiting compensation in the operational area of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Co-operative Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17427/24. T/17427/25. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 11 to 20 and 22 to 24 of this, ladies and gentlemen, the decision will be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17427/24. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17427/24. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment requiring a simple majority by 141 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17427/26. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 141 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17427/26. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 139 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is T/17428 on the transfer of agricultural holdings. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17428/18. T/17428/19. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the House Rule of Decision is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 2 and 6 and therefore we first decide on them. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 7 votes in favour, 131 votes against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 6 is also proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the proposal by 7 votes in favour, 131 votes against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule of Decision is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section T/17428/18 of the LMP Group A separate vote was initiated on point 9 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the point requested for a separate vote, then on the part of the summarised amendment that requires a qualified majority, then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 9 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17428/18. Point 9, which requires a simple majority, asked for a separate vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the point requested for a separate vote by 133 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on points 2 to 8, 12 to 15, 18, 25, 26, 41, 42, 44 and 45 that require a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17428/18. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17428/18. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 138 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. [[12.50]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17428/20. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 138 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17428/20. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 137 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 abstention. Next up is T/17436 on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17436/16. T/17436/17. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment No 2 and 5 and the Jobbik Group's amendment No 11. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 8 votes in favour, 130 votes against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 5 is also proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. The reservation also requires a qualified majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 6 votes in favour, 130 votes against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 11 is proposed by Mr Ádám Steinmetz. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 6 votes in favour, 132 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule of Decision is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/17436/16 of the Fidesz Group, A separate vote was initiated on point 35 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the point requested for a separate vote, and then on the part of the summarised amendment that requires a qualified majority. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 35 of the summarised amendment, which requires a qualified majority, to be put to a separate vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17436/16. Point 35 of the proposed amendment, which requires a qualified majority, asked for a separate vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the point requested for a separate vote by 133 votes to one, with six abstentions. We are now deciding on points 30, 33, 51-73, 78, 79, 109, 113-116, 118 and 120 that require a further qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17436/16. Additional points requiring a qualified majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the additional points of the parliamentary amendment, which require a qualified majority, were accepted by 138 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17436/16. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 1 votes against and 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17436/18. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 138 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17436/18. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 138 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. It follows that T/17442 on certain provisions relating to the management of assets and amending certain laws concerning the management of assets and national financial services. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17442/5. T/17442/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that in point 3 of this Article, point 5 is replaced by the following: A qualified majority shall be required for the adoption of paragraphs 3 and 4 and points 17 to 22 and paragraphs 35 and 36 respectively, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17442/5. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the parts of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on other parts of the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17442/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the remaining parts of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. [[13.00]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17442/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 1 against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17442/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 1 against and 5 abstentions. It follows that T/17437 on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and on the amendment of the laws relating to the takeover of certain state-owned tasks by charitable organisations. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17437/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1 and 3, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17437.5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 2 votes against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17437.5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 136 votes in favour, 2 votes against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17437/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 2 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17437/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 137 votes in favour, 2 votes against and without abstentions. It follows that T/17439 on the amendment of certain laws relating to energy and transport as well as related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17439/4 of the legislative committee's proposal for an amendment, and T/17439/5 of its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 106 and 127-129 of this Regulation, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17439/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 4 against and 2 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17439/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 132 votes in favour, 4 against and 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17439/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17439/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 4 against and 2 abstentions. It follows that T/17440 on the amendment of the laws concerning certain trainings and employment will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17440/6, and T/17440/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 24, 26, 27, 28, 30, 31, 35, 37-45, 47-49 and 60-70 of this regulation, the decision will be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17440/6. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17440/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. [[13.10]] It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17440/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17440/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The T/17429 on the amendment of certain laws to establish interoperability between EU information systems in the fields of borders, visa, police and judicial cooperation and asylum and migration for harmonisation purposes Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17429/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2 and Amendment 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 3 votes in favour, 133 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 7 votes in favour, 132 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 to 4 and 12 to 15, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17429/7. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 136 votes, 1 votes against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17429/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, no votes against, with four abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/17429/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, no votes against, with four abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/17429/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, no votes against, with four abstentions. T/17433 on the amendment of individual laws in the field of defence and law enforcement. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/17433/4 and its summary report T/1743/35. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1743/4. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes, 1 votes against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1743/36. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes, 1 votes against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1743/36. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes, 1 votes against and 5 abstentions. Next up is the T/17432 on Defence and the Hungarian Defence. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17432/4 and T/17432/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 to 12 and 18 to 40, 42 to 45 and 48 and 49, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17432/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes, 5 votes against and 1 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17432/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] [[13.20]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 132 votes, 5 votes against and 1 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present, and the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17432.6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17432.6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 1 abstention. The election of the President of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority now follows. Allow me to extend a special welcome to the candidate, Dr. András Koltay, President of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, all the permanent guests of the Parliament who attend our meeting. I now ask Mr István Tiba to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2021-12-14-70	Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4 (c) of the Fundamental Law and CLXXXV of 2010 on media services and mass communication. Law 111/A On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Prime Minister's proposal, Dr. András Koltay was appointed President of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority with effect from 4 December 2021. Budapest, 1 December 2021 Sincerely, János Áder is President of the Republic.
u2021-12-14-71	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. Act 125. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, Dr. András Koltay became a candidate for president of the Media Council at the time and the fact that he was appointed. The House President's proposal on this matter is S/17806. The IT network of the House is accessible to all of us. The President of the Media Council shall be elected by the Parliament by open vote, with the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to take a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Dr. András Koltay as Chairman of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority at S/17806. As recommended. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly elected Dr. András Koltay to the President of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority by 134 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 1 abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Dear Parliament, The election of a member of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority follows. Allow me to extend a special welcome to the candidate, Dr. Balázs Bartóki-Gönczy and his family members. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Balázs Bartóki-Gönczy, standing in the box, thanks for the applause.]] On the basis of the motion of the ad hoc committee to appoint members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the Speaker of Parliament is S/17837. has presented its proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council. I would ask Mr. Adam Steinmetz to explain it. Here you go, notary.
u2021-12-14-72	Dear Parliament, The National Assembly is CLXXXV of 2010 on media services and mass communication. Law 124. Paragraph 1 and Article 125 thereof. According to Section 6 of the Act, Dr. Ágnes Hankiss elects Balázs Bartóki-Gönczy as a member of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2021-12-14-73	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The member of the Media Council shall be elected by the Parliament by open vote, with the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to take a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Dr. Balázs Bartóki-Gönczy as member of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority S/17837. As recommended. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly elected Dr. Balázs Bartóki-Gönczy to the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority with 133 votes in favour, 6 votes against and no abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oaths and the oaths will be signed. I ask Dr. András Koltay and Dr. Balázs Bartóki-Gönczy to come together to the centre of the Chamber and take their oath. I ask Mr. István Tiba to read the vows separately, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to listen to them standing up according to our custom. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the president of the Media Council takes an oath. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. András Koltay and Dr. Balázs Bartóki-Gönczy step into the center of the room. Dr. István Tiba reads the words of the oath.]]
u2021-12-14-74	I, András Koltay, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its laws and to keep them; to the benefit of the Hungarian nation, I exercise my position as Chairman of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. So help me God. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-14-75	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time to elect a member of the Media Council. I ask Mr. István Tiba to read the words of the oath. [[Dr. István Tiba reads the words of the oath.]]
u2021-12-14-76	I, Balázs Bartóki-Gönczy, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; I exercise my position as a member of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-12-14-77	Thank you very much. Take your seats, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Now it's time to sign the oath papers. In accordance with our tradition, I would ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would ask the elected officials to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. András Koltay and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Dr. András Koltay was first congratulated by Viktor Orbán, Gergely Gulyás, László Kövér, and then by Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Máté Kocsis, Dr. István Simicskó and Imre Ritter. Attila Móring József, who signed the oath document, then congratulates Dr. Balázs Bartóki-Gönczy first and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Orbán, Gergely Gulyás, Máté Kocsis, then Antal Rogán, Dr. István Simicskó, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, László Kövér and Imre Ritter congratulates Dr. Balázs Bartóki-Gönczy.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Allow me to wish Dr. András Koltay and Dr. Balázs Bartóki-Gönczy an effective work on behalf of Parliament and myself. [[13.30]] Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on immunity issues. I would like to inform you that a motion to suspend the immunity of Mr Tamás Csányi's better Member of Parliament was received on 7 December 2021, the 10th Bpk.172/2021/6. I'm a member of the Mezőtúr District Court on a private charge of defamation of defamation. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/17883. Mr Tamás Csányi presented a proposal for a resolution concerning the immunity of the Member of Parliament. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-12-14-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has already been said here, in the transcript of the District Court of Mezőtúri, Tamás Csányi seeks the National Assembly in order to suspend the immunity of Mr. From the report, I see that you see the better Member as your political opponent, noting that you live in a constituency. Among the facts, we have established that the place of the crime is Facebook, where such statements are written. Mr Happy Member has blackmail potential for the mayors, so they do not give a negative statement. And another:. The biggest fraud occurred in connection with the nursery in the cherry grapes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The immunity committee also dealt with the fact that the Member's immunity was violated by the relevant district court. This was discussed at the House meeting yesterday, and Mr Speaker informed the House of this. Tamás Csányi, Member of Parliament, informed the Speaker that his immunity had been violated in accordance with the law. This was also stated in the file by the immunity committee, as the judge should have noticed that Tamás Csányi was a Member of Parliament and that, in the absence of a suspension of his immunity, he could not have been summoned to a personal hearing. Since this has happened, we have established a violation of immunity from the documents, and yesterday the Speaker informed the House that he had informed the head of the court about the decision and determination of the immunity committee. What we have stated in substance in the specific case is in favour of the facts listed above, and that is our usual decision at this time. As a private charge, we propose to the House, with a unanimous decision, that Mr Tamás Csányi, Parliamentary Representative, should not suspend his immunity in the given case. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-12-14-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Tamás Csányi is not present, so he has no opportunity to take the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of the MP Tamás Csányi. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Tamás Csányi with 8 votes in favour, 119 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that a motion for the waiver of the immunity of Fidesz MEP Pál Völner was received on 8 December 2021 KSB.4347/2021/4. Against the prosecution of a criminal offence involving the adoption of a bribery by the Attorney General. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/17884. Parliamentary Member Pál Völner presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2021-12-14-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In his transcript, the Attorney General turned to Parliament and proposed that Parliament be suspended by the Parliament on the grounds of the offence of accepting bribery and other crimes. I've already accounted for this rating. Before presenting the facts, I note that before the meeting, Mr Völner sent us a letter, and he did not attend the meeting. In this letter, it states that this motion is confusing, roughed up, controversial and incoherent in many places. I wouldn't use these strong adjectives, but I'm sure I've only seen better motions as Chairman of the immunity committee, especially from the Chief Prosecutor's Office. I could also say that there have been pinpoint motions from there, and I do not feel this way, and I would therefore like to talk about it, saying that our decision is, of course, what the public expected in this case. Even though I believe that this motion is contradictory, it can only be clarified in court, and the Member asks us to do so, and our proposal is, of course, what I am saying at the end of the motion. What facts does the Attorney General list? He claims that before August 2017, the Member and the Head of the Executive Faculty established a relationship that he considered to be corruption. As a result of this relationship, this material says that on several occasions the Member received cash payments from the President of the Executive Faculty between HUF 2 and HUF 5 million on a regular basis. Among them, this motion suspects an agreement in which Congressman Völner practically undertook to exercise his powers as Secretary of State in the interests of the President of the Executive Faculty. What's this about? The President of the Executive Faculty clearly has important powers in relation to the operation of the Faculty, its organisation and its economy, practically exercising the powers of the former Secretary of State to promote these matters; moreover, their agreement states that this material covers matters which are not the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, the Member shall act in the interests of the President of the Faculty. The material then lists 21 items, 21 dates, at which time the president of the faculty handed over the funds to Pál Völner, and then summarizes these lines, and says that it totals HUF 83 million. [[13.40]] I've counted it a thousand times, and so have my co-workers. That's 67 million forints. That's a gross sum, but there's still 16 million differences between the two, which is surprising from a material like this coming to the National Assembly. The material then discusses a long-term agreement between the President of the Executive Faculty and seven executives on the basis of which the President of the Executive Faculty is able to appoint them as independent executives, but in return they will either give their dividends to the head of the Executive Faculty in full or in part. This is almost 850 million forints, the prosecutor's office finds this to be a fact, and the prosecutor's view is that it provides some funds to Pál Völner. He mentioned two specific cases when the head of the Executive Faculty asked Paul Völner to act on his behalf. This is a matter relating to vocational training and has not been the result. The material states that negotiations have been conducted but that they have not been able to establish who was present in these negotiations. He also mentioned another story that would bring up János Süli, but in such a way that it would have happened to the Minister of State, János Süli, who was responsible for the development of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. So there are such inaccuracies in this material, but, as I said, these inaccuracies can only be clarified in a court of law, so the Committee on immunity consistently proposes to Parliament, by unanimous motion, to suspend Mr Pál Völner's immunity in this case. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-12-14-81	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pál Völner is not present, so he cannot use the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the MP's immunity will be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary MP Pál Völner. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of Pál Völner by 128 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of independents.]] Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Z. Kárpát Dániel, representative of Jobbik, I/17823. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 120 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 1 abstention. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of MSZP, I/17842. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 121 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 1 abstention. Lajos Oláh, representative of DK, I/17220. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 119 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 1 abstention. Antal Csárdi, representative of LMP, I/1727. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 1 abstention. Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, I/17824. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 120 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 1 abstention. Adam Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, I/17683. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that anyone who has not yet received the package for the declaration of assets can still do so at the reception desk at the entrance to the President of the Chamber. We've reached the end of the decisions. Thank you for your cooperation. With whom we would not meet, I wish you all blessed, happy, graceful Christmas holidays and a more hopeful year of next year. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Some Members leave the Chamber.]] (Recess: 13.46-13.53) President: Dr. János Latorcai) Note: Dezső Believer)
u2021-12-14-82	Dear Parliament, As I have already said, we have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm applied for a post-meeting speech. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-12-14-83	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We rarely talk about the people without whom we could not even enter the Parliament building; without whom the lights would not burn, without whom we would not feel safe, without whom we could not follow the text of the bill and other proposals, without whom we would be cold in here, without whom there would be no purity, without whom the whole of our work of representatives would be impossible. Many people in this country do not understand how many people who are invisible support the work of the Parliament. The secretaries are invisible, the committee staff are invisible, and the chamber commissioners who work with extreme humility and love are often invisible even in the Chamber, so that Members can work calmly and smoothly, in peace and prepared. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The work of the Parliament is attended by a thousand Hungarian compatriots, and it helps us to get our work to all people, understand the value and merit of our work by Hungarian citizens, and all the work that is done here in Parliament, without their humble activities, we cannot do it at such a high level. But we might as well step out here as we approach Christmas, approaching the new year outside the walls of Parliament, because we have countless compatriots who are doing jobs that are almost invisible, yet the country would not work without them. In law enforcement, defence, fire department, public service, various public office offices, government offices, municipalities, health institutions, and I could list the many state and municipal organizations where many of our countrymen work day and night so that all of us Hungarian citizens can be safe, have a good time, enforce our interests, and have all the things we need to sustain our lives. I think, fellow Members, that there are a lot of situations where we have to deal not only with ourselves, with our political work, with our creeds, with our parties, with our political interests, with our opponents or with our goals, but also with those people without whom our work is worthless, and those for whom we are worth working, and who are worth doing our work in a quality way. If the better existence, good feeling and satisfaction of our fellow Hungarians is not the primary purpose of the Parliamentary Member's work, then what is it? All of us, as we walk the country, meet countless people who have a very difficult fate, and who, while doing everything to improve his destiny, is working, raising children, caring for family members, is not able to step one step at a time. It is this extremely wide social group to whom we deserve to show ourselves, to whom we deserve to speak, and to whom we must do our daily work in order to improve their interests and lives. We often fall into a situation where we can't see beyond our own circles. Believe me, fellow Members, we are much more needed for the citizens of the Hungarian nation than ever in the last hundred years. Even though the modern world is more comfortable, despite the high level of technological development, many of our countrymen live in a very difficult fate, who need us to be their servants, so that their lives can get better from day to day. Of course, for this to happen, we, all Members, in the state organisation, in the state leadership organization, must be more humble to all people. In any case, I would like to ask with respect that, although I have few fellow Members in this Chamber, at least once in the life of the Parliament, all those who help us in our work, who are invisible, but without whom we cannot manage, at least this way, before Christmas, with a round of applause, thank you for your work.
u2021-12-14-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-the-meet speech:. How long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-14-85	Mr President, Dear House, During the Advent and the last parliamentary session of the year, we will typically turn a little quieter, with a little more self-esteem and self-criticism towards both my fellow Members and ourselves. I've already told you this week what I think about the supposedly biggest corruption scandal of the decade, the amazing variety of cases involving foreign exchange credit victims, evicted people, and the fact that people who are supposed to be in the most difficult situations have been pulled down by those who are on the government, and the accusation is that there has been a very serious series of acts of corruption here. [[14.00]] But now I would like to address in this speech those who are the victims of this whole process, if you like, the Christmas of foreign exchange credentials, and it could be announced, so that the lives of those who have been institutionalized are a little easier for those who have been looted and left to rob. Several of my fellow Members here have also participated in eviction events where we have tried individually to help victims with legal aid, and although we have no direct opportunity to intervene in enforcement processes, and this would not be right, we have tried very often to link legal aid with the victims. Those in Jobbik's faction participated in this event 47 times. I am happy to tell you that we have been able to provide substantial assistance on dozens of occasions. Unfortunately, in the other cases, we too were powerless. But not only did these people ask us for help, but they did honor us with their trust. I remember when Aunt Kati invited me in on Turtle Street for the first time, and, well, among the family photos, I was expecting a conversation where she would tell me what her son was doing overseas, how he would learn and how the granddaughter would work, too, in another country. Compared to this, I met an urn, and the fact that the deceased son's debt was inherited by the injured, who, working nights at the multi-company, could not produce the repayment obligation imposed on him under very strange circumstances. What we see is that many times these people did not choose the way to take on an expensive loan, pay back, and then drown in the obligation to repay. In many cases, the various wildebeests of a rotted system have put them in a position, and indeed, we have seen in this case that two enforcement teams have tried to recover the same claim. We have met someone who has already tried to recover a recovered claim, and it was my fellow Member Gergely Kálló who had to visit a family during the eviction moratorium, and draws attention to the fact that, well, my friends, there is a moratorium, and there is no eviction here, and there is no such thing. These people don't just ask for legal aid, these people invite us into the kitchen, they give us insight into their family lives, and we meet with a series of personal tragedies, and these personal tragedies draw our attention to why we are sitting here in Parliament, what is the service we have undertaken, what we have sworn to do, we are bettermen at the Holy Crown, and we must clearly articulate their voice here. Not only by bringing in their personal life stories, but mostly by bringing back at least a small piece of the dissipating social protection net until justice is achieved for those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, we do not achieve a new accounting law, because this is only possible after the change of government, for example, by not allowing executives to block the amounts required for the minimum of living. Personally, I don't want to see them taking 33 percent or even 50 percent of the minimum income in the case of small pensioners or minimum wage earners, because in exceptional cases, half the income can go. Not to mention incaswords and other methods. We see a lot of wounds bleeding from the whole system of implementation in practice, and while there are supposedly violent bribes, down at the end there is institutionalized looting for those in the most difficult situation. From here I wish you a blessed, peaceful Christmas and a calm, advent preparing for all those involved, knowing that I cannot reassure them, but in the midst of their troubles we may not even be able to provide a little cure, but I invite everyone to sit on any side of the parliamentary horseshoe to care for these people, not to see the bar code in budget planning, but to see the people who suffer unduly. We have sworn to intervene in such situations and to do the best we can in the interests of our fellow countrymen concerned. Thank you for your attention and patience, Mr President. I wish you a blessed, peaceful Christmas.
u2021-12-14-86	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-14-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It has been a huge problem both physically and medically for the past two years for the country, but our economy has suffered the epidemic. It didn't help that the government in many cases tried to quote: to help, by using the pandemic and the virus situation, the municipalities have nothing better to say. Local governments have been freed from a lot of resources, tax revenues have been frozen by the government, withdrawals have been made, and compensation has not been made in spite of any promises. First, they said that they would compensate the municipalities in full, then they said that they could not offer any money, but they could offer preferential loans, because the economy is spinning when we develop. Then the disappointing news came that they didn't provide that either. In addition to the looting of Dunaújváros and its area, such a level of looting, another assassination was offered as a gift, so to speak. This is the second time in Hungary a special economic zone has been established and the region has been hit with the power of the special economic zone. Why do I say I'm gonna get hit? Because you yourself have acknowledged in connection with the debate on the special economic zone that this is nothing but a very effective weapon in your hands, with which you will be able to strike the areas, the cities that you, say, do not like. Well, that happened. So the problem is not alone, the municipality was reduced during the pandemic, and only this year, thanks to the establishment of a special economic zone, HUF 1.4 billion was dropped from the budget of the city of Dunaújváros county. It's just Rácalmás didn't get it after Hankook, it's Hankook's paid business tax. We were told then that this is a much fairer system, because small settlements will be supported and developed from these revenues, taken, withdrawn revenues. Well, here, let me point out that Dunaújváros does have solidarity with small settlements. Dunaújváros pays the highest solidarity tax for cities with county rights, and for cities with more than 22,000 inhabitants, for their tax revenues, to the Hungarian state register. You know, this is the money that cities that get rich in business taxes can fund poorer settlements. So, again, in terms of our tax revenues, we paid most of the business taxes. This represents 42 percent of our tax revenue, which is HUF 1 billion 768 million. That's how much solidarity we have with the poorer settlements. That much. So let no one tell us that injustice, or forgiveness, is not tried to conceal injustice with justice, for we have already proved ourselves among the big cities in this area. And what's the solution? How can we re-ventilate, say, Dunaújváros, but not just Dunaújváros, but also other cities that pay solidarity taxes? Zsolt Szabó, Deputy Mayor for Economic and Financial Affairs of Dunaújváros, has drawn up a proposal for a resolution. This proposal for a decision states that until half of the business tax paid by small and medium-sized enterprises has been taken by the government, as long as local taxes are frozen, on which the municipality cannot now raise and believe that these revenues have not always been raised or raised at the expense of the population, until this has been abolished, the government should reject the payment of solidarity taxes for these big cities. For us, it's huge money, but for the budget, it's not that big. They want to support everyone, we ask you to take this step to adopt our resolution proposal and to support the municipalities of large cities who suffer from withdrawal as much as anyone else. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-12-14-88	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Kálló. I now give the floor to Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, a notary, who has applied for a post-meeting speech: "Beautiful future! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman, notary. [[14.10]]
u2021-12-14-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the end of the session and at the end of the term, allow me to thank my fellow Members for their joint work. It has been an honor to work with you here in Parliament, in this wonderful building, near the Holy Crown, and it has been an uplifting feeling for me every single day I've spent here. Thank you very much for the work of the staff of the minutes, who I have worked on a regular basis in recent years. For the sake of the Hungarian people and the proud citizens of Somogy, I am speaking today for the 167th time. It couldn't have been easy to write that down. But, please, believe me, if there hadn't been so many problems to solve, I wouldn't have asked for so many words. It was an honor to represent the Hungarian people and to make their voices heard in the National Assembly. I have tried to seize every opportunity to do so, and I will do so today. So I would like to point out with due respect to Minister Miklós Kásler that the development of the hospital in Marcal will not be delayed, and that is the heart of tens of thousands of citizens of Somogy. By the way, many thousands of people signed the initiative, the initiative I launched in the Marcal hospital to restart obstetrics, restart the children's class, purchase of a CT device, reduce waiting lists and otherwise the hospital's independence. Well, I trust that the government will implement these requests as soon as possible and that the hospital will be properly developed in the future. And by the way, while we are talking about the future, I am very happy to cooperate and work with everyone and support the work of everyone who wants to make sure that Hungarian wages and Hungarian pensions finally catch up to the Western European standard, who wants to make sure that the Somogy wages reach and then exceed the average in Hungary, who want to make it worth the effort to grow again in the villages, so that the transport and public transport conditions necessary for going to work are guaranteed even in the small village area, and I can support at all the work of everyone who wants to do so that Hungary is inspired by the atmosphere of love instead of hatred. Ladies and Gentlemen, With these thoughts I wish you and everyone, every Hungarian, a blessed Christmas, a new year rich in health and success, and a better future. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-12-14-90	Thank you very much, Congressman Adam Steinmetz, notary. Mr János Bencsik also spoke after the agenda with the title "About the Civil Hungary." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-14-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Perhaps the image of today's Hungarian public life has never been more comforted than it is this year 2021. Unfortunately, the political elite, as far as it can be described as an elite, would not have shown that they were responsible for either the current very serious crisis or for the future. Here, for example, is the biggest, saddest event of the year, the Covid epidemic, in which we have seen the majority of left-wing opposition parties chasing against Eastern vaccines for a long time, while the government has been busy using as much profit as possible in various procurements of protective equipment through corruption channels, and the extremely wide mandate provided by the emergency, in addition to or rather than defending the country, for the insertion of its own cadres and the rewriting of electoral rights, for the rewriting of electoral rules, leaving very, very much work, wages, people living in Hungary and young people. Only the Civil Reply acted responsibly on this issue. We were the ones who had been in favour of vaccination from the beginning, who urged Members to receive an extra vaccination for health workers, in order to encourage Hungarian people to take the vaccine, and indeed we were the ones who initiated it, so that if the Hungarian government had ordered compulsory vaccination, then this should also be mandatory for Hungarian Members of Parliament, let us set an example. Unfortunately, we failed, because neither the government nor the opposition groups supported this. Then there is the economic situation after the epidemic, which the government is trying to handle by taking on a foreign loan of more than HUF 1000 billion, and then turning it back to the economy, but we saw that a significant part of this money was simply poured on people before the election, especially on the Hungarian pensioner's layer. Here, a pension dementia has developed over the past 30 years that has thinned its mates over the past 30 years, with a 13th month pension, with extrapremium, with a pension adjustment, while the people who suffered the most from this economic epidemic, entrepreneurs, people and young people who have not been able to work for a long time, have received almost nothing. Instead of providing our Hungarian retired countrymen with predictable and long-term sustainable pensions, they tried to buy a vote with a one-time distribution before the election in a barely concealed way. Here again, the Civil Reply was the only political community that spoke against this, demanding fair, long-term, predictable pensions for their retired countrymen, and demanding one-off financial assistance from wage and salary workers, taxpayers and young Hungarians. Perhaps the third largest event of the year, in addition to the epidemic and the economic downturn, was the opposition pre-election. I think it was a delayed opportunity. The entire pre-election was influenced by the inability of civil and independent candidates, the political positions of left-wing opposition parties, negotiated behind closed doors, and oiled. The only light of hope in this was the victory of Péter Márki-Zay, but this is far from the moral revolution, but we can see that it is far from purification. This process is perhaps just at the beginning of opposition cooperation, and only a faint ray of hope has appeared in order that something might come from it, perhaps the opposition may indeed be cleansed. We are interested in freeing opposition parties from the shadows of the past and getting rid of the elements which, by the way, are in many ways in the background of Fidesz, putting genuine opposition renewal at risk through economic mergers. Perhaps the most hopeful development in the past year, at least for me, was the flag-breaking and forming of the Civil Response. Last December, we announced the birth of a new civil conservative, young political movement, which also became a party in February this year. We set out to represent the ideal of civil Hungary, which was denied by Fidesz, reduced to political products, and never represented by the left-wing opposition. So we represent those who no one else represents of the current political palette, and our goal is to finally go beyond the failed policy of the last 30 years, with the political chariot camps that hate each other and still survive each other, to finally restore faith and hope to people and to build self-organizing communities instead of conquering the rest of the party state. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In that hope, I thank you, each and every one of our members, our sympathizer for your year's work, and I wish you a blessed advent and a merry Christmas. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz applauds.]]
u2021-12-14-92	Thank you very much, Congressman János Bencsik. After the agenda, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, asked for a speech with the title "Ongoing issues." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-14-93	Thank you very much. I'd basically like to pick up where I left off last night or last night. I was talking about the daily problems of people living in the South-Heves region, and I would like to continue with this, because I see that, in addition to the need for periphery in many respects, they have fewer incomes, less wages, less social income, which is added up by the nation as a whole, and the government is entrusted to share, they also receive less of this. After less pay, they are unfortunately entitled to fewer pensions. It has not been possible in the last 12 years, no matter how many times opposition parties have submitted their parliamentary resolution proposal to implement a pension correction programme here at least in order to catch up on low pensions. In fact, this system, which was announced after 2010, has just been frozen. What we see is that food prices are skyrocketing, and the minimum pension has been frozen for 13 years. [[14.20]] What we see is that food prices are skyrocketing, and the minimum pension has been frozen for 13 years. We see that the price of petrol has been skyrocketed for months, and the family allowance has been frozen for 12 years. We can see that house prices, rent prices are skyrocketing, but maternity allowance hasn't changed in 12 years with a crooked penny. What we see is that the daily livelihood that housewives cook from is food oil, margarine, milk, bread, bakery goods are in the sky, and for 13 years the amount of money hasn't risen by a naughty penny. Well, these people are sort of putting up with this situation, but I'd like to pick up where I left off yesterday: they have less pay, less health, and they don't even have a doctor. In the constituency, where I am a joint opposition candidate, please, almost a third of the population does not have a home doctor. Yesterday, I think I mentioned that if we look at the settlements in a 10-15-20-mile radius around Heves, we miss the general practitioner in every other settlement. Please, there is a settlement in a village where two GP districts are permanently unfilled. Horton is not a general doctor, I stress in Hatvan, there has been no general doctor for two years, there is no general doctor in Pélyen, there is no general doctor in Adács, there is no general doctor in Adács, there has not been a general doctor in Vámosgyörk, there is no general doctor in Petőfibány, there is no general doctor in Szücsi for five years. He hasn't had a GP in seven years. Heves hasn't had a GP in eight years. And what really broke my fuse, Visnek hasn't had a GP in 12 years. I stress that in one third of the constituency, there is no general doctor. Yes, we can see that the government has done absolutely nothing to solve this problem. They said there'd be community practice, I get it. Maybe they can get an instrument more easily. Only here seems to be the case that three or four doctors can join the practice community, but then three or four will not be able to provide care for people who have not been able to provide general medical services for years. I believe that, after the elections next year, the new government will have a role to play in this area as well. For this work, I wish my fellow Members strength, health and a successful spring overture. Thank you very much. Merry Christmas to you.
u2021-12-14-94	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Korózs. Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a post-meeting address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-12-14-95	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. So after the agenda, I would like to talk about one of the most important Hungarian social groups, pensioners. Several people have been involved here in their speeches, and let us see what is real about this issue. We have over two million retired countrymen in our country. We owe them thanks and respect for building this country, preserving it as it is, and for even being here. In 2010, when we received the responsibility of government, we made a very serious alliance with our retired compatriots and promised them that anything would happen inside or outside the country, we would maintain the purchasing value of pensions under all circumstances, and we would do everything in our power to make the everyday life of pensioners predictable. We have consulted pensioners in a very serious national consultation on important issues and issues affecting them, and they have all been able to say this, and no big consultation will be without consequences. The Government of Hungary has taken these opinions into consideration and taken into account in the decisions that have come from pensioners. The Council of Elders has met regularly, and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has attended these meetings many times, so he could hear directly what the elderly think. What I would like to highlight, and perhaps I would like to do so in the first place, is that at the beginning of next year, the 13th month's pension will be returned to the elderly. I am talking about a monthly pension taken from pensioners by the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, the left in a difficult situation during an economic crisis. The civilian government led by Viktor Orbán also in a difficult time, in an epidemic, does not squeeze the needy, but gives them a helping hand, so that the 13th month pension that was taken from pensioners by the left could begin. The pension premium has been paid four times so far. The rule is that if the Hungarian economy performs better, there is an economic growth of over 3.5 percent, then everyone must benefit from it, first of all pensioners. In this way, they receive a pension premium. I would like to stress that this rule was alive during the governance of the left, but, while the left was governed, there was no pension premium paid at all. Now the pensioners could receive a record pension premium of 80,000 forints, and we were able to pay them a pension premium for the fourth time. It can be said that while in 2010 an average pension was HUF 97 thousand, in November 2021, according to the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, this is more than HUF 156 thousand, a significant difference. A 5-percent pension increase will take place at the beginning of next year, and it can be said that since 2010, pensions have increased by 47 per cent and the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 10 per cent. For the ladies who have done a great deal of work in their lives with honor, we have launched the, Women 40, and they can retire after 40 years of service. More than 320,000 people took advantage of this opportunity. We also consider it important to have intergenerational dialogue, which is precisely what pensioners' cooperatives are doing. Older people returning to work can pass on the full professional experience of a life to the younger generation. Overall, I can say that this alliance, which we concluded with pensioners in 2010, has been maintained all along, and that pensioners can see exactly what they can expect from the civilian government and see what they can expect from the left-wing government. I am sure that if the left were to form a government in Hungary, then, since the situation of the economy could never be handled well, it would not be possible to pay a pension premium in the future. So, honourable Hungarian compatriots, respected Hungarian pensioners, please choose! Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-12-14-96	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Nitrai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first meeting of the spring session of the Parliament is expected to take place in February. I thank you for your year-round work. To all my fellow Members, to the ethnic advocates, to the staff of the Parliamentary Office and to all those who have watched, accompanied our work, blessed, peaceful holidays, and a good rest! The meeting's closed.
