u2021-10-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 7th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that attila Gelencsér and Dezső Liberty will be here to help me. I welcome all those who are monitoring our work and welcome again to Hungary on the occasion of the Hungarian-Bulgarian, Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship day, Mr Valery Simeonov, former vice-president and delegation of the Bulgarian National Assembly. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Six years ago, we created a new and noble tradition by declaring the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship as a celebration by the Hungarian Parliament and the Bulgarian National Assembly. Today, both peoples together remember their shared cultural values and shared Christian roots. October 19th Day of St. John Rila, Csodávő, whose relics are III. Our King Béla returned it to the Bulgarian people, who, to this day, has been revered as a saint of the Orthodox Church and a patron saint of Bulgaria. This historic moment in which the ruler of the Kingdom of Hungary fulfilled his Christian obligation provides the basis today for the two peoples to find their way together in supporting and helping each other. The two peoples live together for centuries. The first Bulgarians arrived in Hungary, fleeing the Turks, at the XV. In the century. After the Turkish occupation, they came to our country as merchants in the next wave of their settlement. The Bulgarians engaged in gardening are listed in Annex XVIII to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. From the beginning of the first century onwards, we have lived and introduced intensive vegetable growing with irrigation and flooding, so Bulgarian gardeners have become permanent players in urban markets. The Bulgarian community in Hungary has become part of the Hungarian nation with its useful activities and persistent diligence. In 1914 gardeners and merchants working in the Monarchy founded the Association of Bulgarians in Hungary, and in 1916 they founded the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Hungary. The preservation of their culture, faith and ethnic identity still enriches our country. The symbol of their commitment and friendship is the bronze relief of Rilai Szent János Csodávő at the Basilica of Esztergom, which was set up by the Hungarian-Bulgarian community. A tangible sign of friendship and appreciation between the two peoples was the inauguration of the renovated church of St Cyril and St Methodius, which was built in 1932 on the basis of the plans of Aladár Árkay, a renowned Hungarian architect, and the statue of Boris Nevrokopi who died during communism was inaugurated in the church garden. Besides the church in Ferencváros, it is planned that a Bulgarian cultural centre will soon be built with the support of the Hungarian and Bulgarian governments. The vice-president of the Bulgarian National Assembly Valery Simeonov, who attended the ceremony, pointed out that the Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship day is also important for him because Bulgaria does not share a festival with any other nation. Hungary respects its national minorities and supports the exercise of their independence and nationality representation, so today the Bulgarian ethnic advocate could welcome the members of the Hungarian Parliament in his own mother tongue. With sympathy and joy, we welcome our Bulgarian friends in Hungary and hope that we can live together for a long time in a rich, common country. Thank you for your attention. Dear Parliament, We will begin the speeches before the agenda. Member Tamás Mellar, representative of the Dialogue, asked for a speech with the title "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-19-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In one year, gas prices increased by 400 percent, electricity prices rose by 80-100 percent on the world market. If the public were to pay market prices, the average monthly fee for each family would increase by HUF 32,000. In Vienna and Berlin, electricity and gas prices are three times higher than in Budapest, and the Swedish state secretary announced eight times as much at a press conference the other day. As a result of the announcement, the government side obviously expects everyone to be very grateful to protect us from this great price increase on the world market. This is also partly correct, it is true, because indeed, low-income people must be protected from these effects, since they cannot pay these increased bills. At the same time, however, the question arises as to why the government also protects those with high incomes, and why it provides them with energy at a very low price. Why does the government support their luxury consumption, the heating of their swimming pools, the use of their saunas? Why doesn't he use a real-band consumption tariff? Today's lane system is obviously insufficient, there is too low a discount band and there is no substantial price difference between lanes. The need for high energy consumption to be much more expensive would also encourage users to save energy, but at the same time this truly progressive, lane-based system would help those living in energy poverty to obtain the minimum energy they absolutely need for their normal lives at a low cost. [[9.10]] The Secretary of State also announced at his press conference that the government intends to increase solar power capacity three times in the coming years. This is also a very positive, welcome plan, but unfortunately it is also necessary to note that it is too late, because last decade, in the middle of the last decade, we should have announced a programme like this or something, and then we could be in a much better position today. At a time when global energy prices have fallen significantly, part of this has been enforced by the government towards the population, the other part has not, but at the same time has not left it at the energy companies, so these companies are now in a situation where they are not able to make a real renewal, so that at the front of renewable energies they can actually change what the Secretary of State has said here that a three-fold increase is needed. Now, when world market prices increase drastically, it can be seen that more and more energy and district heating companies are going bankrupt. The rise in energy prices on the world market also has an intense impact in other areas, especially in the agricultural and food sectors. Here it is noted that a drastic 50-60 percent increase in product prices has been achieved in recent years, due to the spill-over of energy prices. It is therefore time for the government to develop and implement an anti-inflationary, stabilisation policy as soon as possible, because otherwise we cannot avoid double-digit inflation and its lasting survival. Today, it is no longer possible to rely on the decline in world market prices after 2010, on the contrary, all indications suggest that high inflation on the world market will continue, and this could be accompanied by a slowdown in growth, i.e. a stagflation period. The Hungarian National Bank's anti-inflationary policy, which is limited in interest rate increases, would be much more necessary for a comprehensive programme, a comprehensive programme that could effectively reduce aggregate demand and, on the other hand, start restructuring, which would have a beneficial impact on both energy use and energy prices. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-2	Thank you very much, Congressman Mellar. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, will respond.
u2021-10-19-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for bringing this important topic before the Parliament, which is the subject of the reduction of the rent, even if it is surprising from a left-wing Member, because we know that, honourable Member, when Ferenc Gyurcsány was in the government, there were series increases, and the price of the rent was constantly increased, if we are to look at it exactly, 15 times in Hungary. This was done by playing foreign utility companies responsible for energy security in Hungary, and these foreign-owned companies then paid off Hungarian families and tried to make the most profit on Hungarian families. Nor is it a coincidence, honourable Member, and allow me to refresh your memory that at that time, under the governance of the left, Hungarian families paid the most for gas and electricity in the European Union. But, by the way, under the Bajnai government, which you so favour so much, there has also been an example that public gas subsidies have been abolished, Congressman. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Wow! Wow.]] This is how the left-wing government of Gyurcsány-Bajna worked, which you are working seriously to bring back today. And we can't forget that while Hungarian families, Hungarian people, were being sabotaged by the constantly rising overhead costs, while Ferenc Gyurcsány provided his own company with an official electricity purchase discount. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] So while families were being sabotaged, their own company was granted preferential fees for this left-wing government [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] This is left-wing overhead policy, honourable Member. The fact is that it is also clear that your speech was only moderately discussed with the other left-wing factions, since your fellow Members in the European Union have wanted to demand the most energy union in recent years. This is the case, honourable Member, and we can see well what plans there are in Brussels, what ideas there are in the field of energy policy. Brussels, with the help of a complex system, is preparing to tax families, all families with their own homes, houses or cars. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true! That's not true.]] Mr President, that is the case. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] You can yell it's not true, you can try to disprove it, but that's exactly the case, that's exactly what the plans are. It is also clear that Brussels wants to achieve climate protection, which is also extremely important, by increasing energy prices, by imposing new taxes on Hungarian people, among other things. However, we do not believe in this, but believe that the financial burden associated with climate change must not be borne by families, not by people with homes or cars, but by those who are responsible for pollution, by the way, by large companies. And not only do we think so, honourable Member, but so do the Hungarian people, because 99 percent of the fillers in the national consultation agreed with this position, agreed with the view that the results of the reduction of the rent should be protected, the fees should not be increased, and the costs that arise from the protection against climate change and adaptation should be borne by the largest climate destroyers and not by families. Honourable Congressman, It is also clear that Europe has not experienced high energy prices for a long time. The price of natural gas increased by 400 percent, and the price of electricity almost doubled, so that if Hungarian families had to pay these prices for gas and electricity, they would have to pay nearly 400 thousand forints more. Therefore, this is an important issue, and I can promise you that here in the Hungarian Parliament, and we can also promise the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, that the national civilian government is the government of the reduction of rent, and that we will protect the results of the reduction of rent, if necessary, even from you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-4	Thank you very much, Secretary Schanda. Member Mrs Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. What is reality? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-10-19-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, My speech before today's agenda is about children's rights and measures, which is why I think it is important to clarify what children's rights are. Children's rights do not need to be listed because they are very simple, anyone can tell them, because they are simply child needs. Luckily, a child can't work in a mine, can't be a soldier, can't be tortured or sold, and it's a basis for fighting child pornography or child prostitution. In 1991 Hungary announced the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and in 1997 the Hungarian Child Protection Act was completed, and both made significant progress in the area of child protection. The main interest of the child is a concept that assumes that adults know and apply it, apply it to the offices, courts, know and recognize it, and apply it to all cases involving children. The European Union created the child protection strategy, which Hungary and Poland vetoed about a week ago, fearing the school propaganda of LGBTQ activists. This strategy is of paramount importance since it is an opportunity and an obligation to comply more effectively with the already mentioned UN Convention. The strategy I heard here in Parliament 24-page yesterday that it is assumed that the opposition does not take the trouble, for example, to read it, to propose thematic tasks in six areas; these are: the active participation of children in democratic life; the right of children, regardless of their social background, to have full fruitage of their talents; the right of the child to a life without violence; the right of the child to a child-friendly justice; the right of children to use the digital environment safely and to exploit the potential of the child and the rights of children worldwide. [[9.20]] I hope that it is indeed the protection of children that encouraged Hungary to veto this strategy, and not the fact that Hungary is facing significant shortcomings in the area of child protection. Think of the family allowance the government hasn't lifted in years. Although we have put this forward several times, and the opposition has put forward several proposals for decisions in this regard, the government believes that it is sufficient to grant family tax relief to families. However, this does not help to combat child poverty, as the children of parents who for some reason do not work do indeed suffer the deepest depths of child poverty. There are also a lot of shortcomings in the foster system, as there is little pay for foster parents. You can also keep hearing in advertisements that foster families are looking for different networks, because there are few people who are committed enough to raise even more children for that kind of money. Unfortunately, they are not even entitled to the car subsidies, which they have repeatedly complained about, because especially if they are raising more children, they would need to have a bigger car, but they cannot buy it from these few salaries. It is very important to encourage foster parenthood, since the foster system is slowly being empty, which would be absolutely wrong, especially for children. They are often victims of domestic violence, either by seeing that one adult family member beats another or is somehow assaulting one another. This is a significant psychological burden for them. But we also need to talk about the abuse of children, which is often done by family members or close acquaintances. The child protection system also needs significant reinforcement. The signalling systems are not functioning properly or efficiently, and often the signal may not reach the authorities. Here too, workers in this sphere earn little, and their physical integrity is not always guaranteed. My personal experience is that they also work in child protection from my family, and they do live in danger. Then the violence within the school: there are school guards, but the teachers are still not properly trained. There's not enough school psychologists, and I could tell you by morning. But my time is almost up, and I'd like to keep the budget, so thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-19-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner will respond.
u2021-10-19-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Madam President, for your speech, because it is a refreshing exception here in Parliament, that it always brings up and tries to perform objectively on issues such as where we stand in the legislation on the situation of children, and also recognises the positive developments that are taking place. Of course, there are always opportunities for development to go further. Maybe that's why we're able to get into a pole that's not about cutting, it's about talking to a topic with a common cause, with a purpose to improve. In the area of children, by the way, the Fundamental Law is Article XV. 1 and 16 It also states that Hungary protects children through specific measures and that all children have the right to the protection and care necessary for their proper physical, mental and moral development. Since 2010, the civilian government and the governing parties have made a number of provisions to protect children. They ensured that those who committed serious crimes against children should not carry out activities related to the education, supervision, care and treatment of children; this is the 2013 CCXLV. Law. In the case of serious offences committed to harm children, in particular sexual crimes, they were provided for non-exaggeration and rest of the limitation period; this is the 2014 LXV. Law. The ban on permanent occupation has been gradually introduced for those who committed a sexual offence to harm children; this is the 2017 XLV. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the State in question constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Punishment of sexual activities with persons under the age of 12 has been tightened; this is the 2017 CLXXVII. Law. In addition, the employment ban has been tightened; it is CXVII of 2018. Law. The facts of trafficking in human beings have been amended and penalties have been raised for sexual offences against children; this is Act V of 2020. Violent crimes against a person who has been harmed by a relative have been tightened on the principles of punishment; this is the year 2020 CVIII. Law. In addition, of course, we have collision surfaces with the Union, to which a representative woman has referred. We restrict the protection of children strictly to the protection of children, and in this area we do not allow the influence of various so-called civil society organisations that would practically bring LGBTQ propaganda into kindergartens and schools through NGOs. If we think about the basic problem itself, this is basically the problem already with the Istanbul Convention on the Protection of Women. We have prepared a compliance table for the Istanbul Convention, where we have listed that all the positives that exist in the Istanbul Convention are already in the Hungarian legal system. We didn't allow genderideology itself. This kind of movement in the European Parliament, and even what the Commission has just put forward, would basically be about protecting children so that everyone could have access to raising children. We will not allow these ideologies in sheep's clothing. We are undertaking this debate, and there is still a debate in this area, because in relation to the Child Protection Act, which is an area of national competence, we know that the Commission has launched infringement proceedings against Hungary. I say to those who object to this step, to name only one area where the elements that appear in the EU legislation are not part of the Hungarian legal system, and even if I take it as a family support system, tax incentives will virtually completely prevent Europe and take an example of protecting children if we protect families. Once again, of course, we are willing to accept and advance all criticisms through the reform and development of supply systems, which can help this area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-8	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Völner. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Gergely Arató, representative of DK, also spoke before the agenda, with the title "Actual Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-19-9	Thank you very much. Dear House, Although it seems that the enthusiastic organizers and participants of the peace process have not been informed about this, Fidesz is actually preparing to lose the elections. This is shown by the fact that the laws which I would like to defend even in the event of an expected opposition victory, their own cadres, the built-in party soldiers and the institutions with which Fidesz is currently exercising power far beyond the borders of constitutionality and democracy. We understand, therefore, that they want to protect the deep state, the power of Fidesz, regardless of the outcome of the elections. Slowly, only the timetable for the small railway upstairs and the menu of the Carmelite Monastery are not protected by a two-thirds law, but it may even come to us in the months ahead. Perhaps one of the most spectacular steps of this type of activity is the individual administration a wonderful bill under the code name of the amendment of laws and related laws, the trial of which will soon be started by Parliament. [[9.30]] We could call that lex freak. In fact, it's just that some people are worried, some people are worried about the Fidesz area, that if Fidesz doesn't become the majority, they won't be the Fidesz government, they'll lose their jobs. And some people in the Fidesz area are concerned that if, say, the Attorney General is not who he is now, then you will also discover cases that you do not want to reveal; perhaps there will be a major prosecutor who will investigate the spending of EU funds, investigate public funds made available from the budget for dumpers, investigate what they have spent on for such funds during the last year during the epidemic; investigate why they have received the tests that they have not been used afterwards, and destroy them in warehouses, if we understand correctly; investigate where they have brought in ventilators, how much they have paid for and who they have paid for it. And I could continue this line for a long time. That is why a law is now being passed that makes it impossible, by a two-thirds law, for the attorney general to be removed even in the event of obvious inadequacy. Your other favourite party stróman receives similar protection because he has such a beautiful name, the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office and our other great favourite is the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities. Do you know what this Controlled Activities Supervisory Authority is doing? That's where all the cases, all the dirty fidesz cases were brought in: tobacco, gambling, supervision of the Executive Faculty, and I could continue for a very long time. Now, with a bill, you will get mining and geology, perhaps not without a link, otherwise destroying a public service that operates according to nearly 150 years of tradition, perhaps not without the fact that I want to turn most of Pest County into a gravel mine, partly because it's a good deal for some buddies, partly because of the need for building materials for the Chinese railway and the Russian nuclear power plant in Paks. Well, then the solution to that is to shovel this into this office and protect its leader. Dear House, Of course, we understand this ambition; it is not particularly witty. You expect to lose this election. I'm glad you're thinking that. It would have been better, of course, for a Democrat to think about it even after his election, and he steers and acts in such a way that he has nothing to fear when another government comes. You didn't do that. They've built a party power far beyond constitutional borders, they've got almost everything under control, and now they're afraid of losing it at the will of the electorate. I have to tell you, this kind of trick, these kind of clever tricks, these little lawyers aren't gonna help you. We understand that we understand that you are making everything two-thirds because you are afraid that opposition government will come and you will have to answer for what you have done. I have to say that our opinion has not changed: the Democratic Coalition, the strongest party of the opposition coalition, continues to say that we must not let these kinds of rules, with these tricks, prevent the will of the people. That is why we will fight in the coming months and then in the government after 2022. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Lantern. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-10-19-10	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. On behalf of the government, Mr. Balázs Orbán will answer.
u2021-10-19-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I have a feeling of Déjà vu every time I hear you say that we are afraid, or that the right and the Fidesz-KDNP party association are afraid of the left. Practically speaking, we heard the same mantras before the elections in 2014 and before the elections in 2018, and then the awakening was difficult not for us, but for you on the day after the elections. I suggest that the tones and findings in this regard, as in a democracy it may seem strange to you, but in a democracy it is customary to leave it to the voters and then decide; it has also been decided in the last three elections. He mentioned two things, specific things. If I may, I would respond to these, and then a general remark, if I may add. One is questions relating to the legal status of the Attorney General. Of course, snakes and frogs can be yelled, but our constitutional customs have been seen since the change of regime in relation to all public officials, that if a person is elected by a two-thirds majority, then all parliamentary questions related to legal relations are two-thirds. That's how it's been. This is now a codification clarification of the existing rule. The other is a matter of national wealth. I have gathered that, if I may, I would like to read these numbers to you, because I think that, to say the least, will put an end to our debate on what happened to national wealth before 2010. Since 2010, the wealth has increased by HUF 6093 billion to HUF 17 744 billion. That's a 52 percent increase. We are talking about 25 percent increase in real estate, 143 percent increase in state wealth in corporate shareholdings. With regard to so-called machinery and equipment, this is a separate sub-category with an increase of 81 per cent. On the other hand, during your administration, only who cleared the state's assets and who didn't, between 2002-2010, so when you took the responsibility of the government, 190 companies sold a public ownership ratio, out of which more than HUF 750 billion was invested in the budget, which you had flown out of. Another piece of data, if you'll allow me to do so. The Hungarian National Bank, of course, is an organization operating independently of the government, but it does not operate entirely independently of politics and life, and therefore it does not matter who the President of the Hungarian National Bank is. Well, the gold reserve was increased from 3.1 tonnes to 94.5 tonnes. That's more than 30 times the increase. So right now, in the Central Eastern European region, our country has the highest reserves of gold per capita. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] If that had been the case before 2010, you might not have bankrupted the country in 2008-2009. I would also like to ask you that, if you really believe that all the resources will disappear from the Hungarian budget, how is it that when we are in the government, there will be additional resources for tax relief for young people, additional resources for family tax refunds, additional resources for housing renovations, additional resources for raising the minimum wage, additional resources for the retirement of the 13th month pension? And if, by the way, you think that your governance before 2010 was standardized, then I would like to ask why there was no source of funding for these at that time, why there was less resources each year to support young people, support families, at least to preserve their purchasing value in pensions. That's because these money was stolen. They didn't give it to the people, they didn't give it to the businesses, they even took home what was paved, and that is a serious problem, honourable Member. If you will allow me, one final remark in connection with the Basic Law. You know what the Fundamental Law guarantees? Economic stability, budgetary stability, free expression, so that what you did to the Hungarian people in 2006 cannot happen again, and what you did in 2008-2009, that the country was bankrupt. I understand that this hurts you, and I understand that you are fighting against the Fundamental Law, but unfortunately it is a guarantee of the Hungarian future, and that is why we will not let them take it away from the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-19-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, spoke before the agenda also with the title "Ongoing issues."
u2021-10-19-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I'd like to talk about health care. There are a lot of surveys and a lot of statistics on health, and, thank God, a lot of people, whether companies or health service companies, are conducting public surveys from which we can conduct dialogue, although I would like to quote this dialogue, because in most cases we are asking, and you are not answering. [[9.40]] In recent years, we see that Hungarian people are spending more and more on private health services. In recent years, this amount has exceeded the annual amount of HUF 1000 billion. This is also interesting, because today in Hungary, who works, the health contribution is paid for the service, I am paying for the service that I should basically receive, although access to healthcare is subjective to the right of all Hungarian citizens. But if we look at these statistics, and this brutal amount, which is now not financed by the state, but spent by Hungarian families from their own pockets, this is more than a thousand billion forints a year, I say again. Today, a Hungarian family spends an average of 113 thousand forints on private health care, and if we look at those who use private health care, we would think that wealthy families with no children. I'm gonna have to disprove that here. Most of the time, we spend the most on our children, families with children, because we're going to give away all the money for our children. What we're going to do is see what the services we use in private care are. First place is dentistry, second place is gynecological interventions, and third place is rheumatology, neurology, dietetics. 70 percent of those surveyed receive some kind of surgical care, and it is also important to see that 16 percent of the surgeries are now performed by private providers in Hungary. Top list of surgeries: first place surgery, second place gynecology again, third place ophthalmology. In the case of multi-day interventions orthopedics is the first place, in the second place the ear-nose-geology, in the third place the gynecology. I highlight gynaecology in private care because the government always stresses that it is a family-friendly government, and we see that women are increasingly turning their gynecological complaints to public interventions, not to private health. Here I have to say that today, the waiting lists that a Hungarian citizen is facing today are available on the NEAK website. Knee replacement is an average of 484 days, this is the waiting time; 7616 people are waiting for knee replacements, but some have 602 days to wait. Abdominal groin hernia surgery is 259 days, 1442 people, but there are 524 days. Orthopedic major surgery is 415 days; corneal surgery is the average waiting time of 777 days. Cataract surgery 171 days, 17 027 patients waiting for surgery; hernia surgery 289 days, 2202 patients. Knee replacement is 589 days, but some have to wait 798 days for this, 8874 patients are waiting for these surgeries. I could give you a long list. That's what's on NEAK's website today. You know, medical service has even made this situation difficult. I think it is unacceptable for us to believe that Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will speak of the fact that yesterday he listed in the on-call system how the age of rescuers changed, but he did not say a word about human resources, Mr Secretary of State. They don't tell me how many doctors, nurses, surgical assistants left the profession after the new service was introduced. They don't talk about not giving out data, how many health workers will stand up for refusing to give themselves the vaccine, even though we say that everyone should take the vaccine, because it is one of the most important means of defense against the disease. But what we're dealing with in health care right now, I think it's intolerable, and the government should take the steps that the profession represents as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-10-19-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said.
u2021-10-19-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You said that the Hungarian people spend the most money on going to the dentist or going to the gynecologist here. What would happen in Hungary if the left had been ruling since 2010? It's not just the gynecologist, it's not just the dentist, it's the gynecologist. What'd they pay you for? It's a water prize. If they went to the hospital, what would they pay? It's a day's fee. If they go to any outpatient care, what do they pay? Not only in the four areas you have said, honourable Member, they would pay a visitation fee in all areas. What are you talking about? The privatisation of the social security fund, the fact that there are multiple insurance models, private banks, one person could go to one hospital, the other person would therefore have a higher standard of care, and the other would have a lower standard of care. You are talking here in Parliament about the fact that there are areas in which Hungarian people go to the dentist and the gynecologist in private practice this is obviously not a practice that has been developed in Hungary, but it is decades of practice, and because of this, you are using paid benefits to all Hungarian people who pay social security, as they have paid social security all their life, their parents and their grandparents paid social security, but you said that in vain he and his entire family paid the social security, despite this, when you go to the hospital, when you go to a home doctor, when you go to an outpatient clinic, you have to pay, pay, pay and pay. Your biggest health development after safes was the visit fee vending machines in Hungarian health care. Of course, there were hospitals that were closed, there were 16,000 beds that were closed, but they put the vending machines at the entrances of every hospital, honourable Member, and that visit fee would have been raised year after year. You said, honourable Member, that it is important to increase the number of doctors. When you finished your activities in Hungarian health care, you were a doctor with 33 943 operating licenses. According to the latest data, there are 37 188. This is 3245 more doctors, honourable Member, according to the official operating licence statement, than you have been able to produce in Hungary, and I would add that the number of doctors working in your time has decreased to about the same magnitude. While it increased during our administration, it decreased during your administration. While there were thousands of doctors in our administration, you reduced the number of working doctors by 3-4 thousand in eight years. I would also like to correct the untruth you have said that the number of such workers has decreased with the new health service law. If we look at how long this new service has been in place, do you think there's less or more such medical relations? Madam Member, there have been more since March, 1881 more. Do you think there have been more or less nursing relationships since 1 March? There's more, 1942. In addition, the number of other healthcare workers increased by 843. This means that since the introduction of the new medical service on 1 March, 4666 more people have established such a healthcare service, thus increasing the number of people working in the healthcare service. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With regard to waiting lists, waiting lists have obviously increased during the epidemic in all countries of the world, because during the epidemic hospitals have dealt with patients with coronal viruses and who needed permanent or lifesaving intervention. When the plague is over, these waiting lists can be processed. Therefore, the Hungarian government provides a surplus of HUF 12 billion to hospitals in order to ensure that the disadvantage that has been created in all countries of the world in the past year and a half... and here in Hungary, who needed lifesaving or permanent intervention, at least those patients have been treated. In France, even cancer patients were not treated because there was so much pressure on hospitals that some hospitals could not care for cancer patients because of the coronal virus. This has not happened in Hungary, honourable Member. How many forints have you spent on a waiting list reduction program? Zero. Why? Because they haven't even established a waiting list registration system yet. Hospitals may have had a small plaid notebook that ran it, but there was no national waiting list registration system, because if there is no such system, you don't think there is such a problem and it doesn't require any additional resources. Therefore, you only dealt with privatisation, privateization, hospital closure, not the possibility of setting up a registration system and then spending money on it. Forints 40-50 billion are the surplus that we used to reduce the waiting list, because first we created the register and then reduced the waiting lists. You have neither created a register nor sacrificed a single forint to reduce the waiting list during your own eight-year governance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.50]]
u2021-10-19-16	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech before the agenda: Hungarians' money for Hungarian football players! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-19-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to inform you of how perhaps two of Hungary's most popular teams took the field in the match against each other a few weeks ago. Dibus, Mmaee Samy, Mmaee Ryan, Nguen Tokmac, Zachariassen, Ćivic, Blažič, Wingo, Lončar, Uzuni and Laïdouni, on one side. On the other side: Banai, Kastrati, Diaby, Mack, Tallo Gadji-Celi, Kutrumpis, Chongvai, Bjeloš, Beridze, Antonov and Mitrović. Well, you've heard that Ferencváros and Újpest were all three Hungarian players. And you can say that in the Premier League in England there are no English players, but the only difference is that club owners invest their own money in sports, they decide who they buy, who they sell. While in Hungary the NB I clubs can also manage with significant public funds. And yes, you have an inexorable merit in the fact that, over the past ten years, the sports sector has received priority subsidies as a national economy sector, and I thank you very much for this on behalf of the sport community, and also for the renewed sport infrastructure, there are more people playing sports than, say, ten years ago. As a result, as more people play sports, there should be more for the talented child. On the other hand, what do we see? For example, we see that the number of players entering the first class in the Hungarian football NB I is 50 percent for foreigners. Unfortunately, handball and basketball don't look good either. I'm shocked. Where are the children with Hungarian talent? We'd like to ask you a question. But to give you a fresh spot of color, a good example: here is the Paks team, which has been standing up with color Hungarian players for years, and not so long ago beat the Supper Team of the Puskás Academy, which has burned the most public money in the last ten years, to 6:1 which, by the way, employs the most talented children. Even they play with five foreigners on a regular basis in the championship matches. And speaking of academies, it still doesn't make sense to me how the Kisvárda Academy became state-renowned, the academy that employs foreigners in the NB I team almost without exception, but not just there, but in the supply. Look, there are hardly any Hungarians in U19! They are not Transcarpathian Hungarians, Ukrainian children, they do not speak Hungarian, and they can only read Cyrillic letters. You allow Hungarian people to spend public money on foreign football players, for example, instead of restarting the children's class at the Marcal Hospital. Quite simply, this academic system is absolutely anticompetitive and unsportsmanlike. I believe that the Hungarian State will highlight from public money certain clubs, support them in particular, and do not highlight, support or do so under the same conditions. And what can sports-loving Hungarian citizens expect after the change of government? Let's talk about this. We would like to place greater emphasis on professional training, as if more Hungarian children, more Hungarian players, could train under fantastic conditions, then yes, they could be the maximum. This can be done by renewing professional training. Then, instead of unsustainable stadiums, we will prefer the construction of gymnasiums that provide the infrastructure background of everyday physical education. In addition, we are making sport management incompatible with party political engagement. I've talked about this a lot. Not least, we do not want to plow the Tao system, because it works as a ventilator in Taosportas and would collapse these sports. We do not want to do this, therefore, we want to run a sport financing system that is transparent, transparent, traceable, performance-based and without a robbery factor. Therefore, unlike you, we will not support clubs that favour foreigners with weak abilities rather than Hungarian talents. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-10-19-18	Thank you, Congressman Steinmetz. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2021-10-19-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, such a question may be worth clarifying in advance, honourable Member, because we see in many places in sport that athletes of different origins play in different countries. Do we despise athletes who, let's say, play abroad? Do we despise them for that? I don't think so. Do we despise foreign athletes because they play in Hungary? Do we despise them? I think we cannot despise the Hungarian who plays abroad or the foreigner who plays in Hungary. It would be weird to make one look negative and the other not. If we look around, the overwhelming majority of countries have guest players from around here and there. They also go abroad from Hungary, they also come to Hungary from abroad. This is a phenomenon, honourable Member. Of course, many things in the world could be more beautiful to us, but it seems to me that this has been the case in recent years, in recent decades, you here in Parliament can obviously speak against this, but I see that this is the practice of having guest players here and there. What we would expect Ferenc Gyurcsány to do if he came back to power in the field of sport, I think it could only come up in our nightmares, he has already explained that he would consider it a success if the competitiveness of Hungarian sports were not reduced. It is a huge objective for a prime minister to think that if we do not sink, he will be very successful, although he has not yet managed to do so, let us say, in GDP and unemployment. Or he told me that he didn't care about football in particular, so he'd be building a facility for the left-wing government to raise supplies, but they didn't do much. What was the most spectacular sport activity of Ferenc Gyurcsány after he finished his sport ministry? He shut down the sports department. That's it. [[Zoltán Balczó: Is it now?]] He used to think it was very important because he was driving this wallet, but then it turned out that he didn't think it was a little important, not for children, not for youth, not for sports, but he took it and closed it all because he just needed a political diving board. There are many things like this, Gyurcsány-show, Children's, Youth and Sports Department, taking up a lot of space to gain full power within the left. But we have seen this two-faced activity of András Fekete-Győr or many others, who have been doing nothing but scolding sports investments for years, scolding stadium constructions, that it is corruption, that the money spilled out of the window, and when there were Hungarian athletes, and when there were 70,000 people there and cheering for the Hungarian team, they went out, and in the first row they were self-handing. How is it that for years someone has been scolding sports investments, stopping them, even advertising a stadium stop, and then the big stadium stop advertisers are there one by one, and self-flying in the stands and cheering for the Hungarian team. It would have been good if only this was the second part of this story that we could share the success of Hungarian sport, honourable Member. You mentioned this, and thank you very much for admitting that the number of athletes in Hungary has increased radically, as well as the number of athletes in leisure. We have also been able to increase the number of sports athletes and leisure athletes, and obviously there is no increase in the number of athletes, either certified or hobby-level athletes without development, without real estate development and development of sports facilities. It's not possible to have the same sports facility, but suddenly there's two and three times as many people playing sports. Twice or three times as many people can play sports in renovated infrastructure or newly built infrastructure. This is why we are proud that we have increased the number of certified athletes more than twice in addition to increased capacity. And what you said, obviously, gym constructions are very important for everyday physical education, and I think that every reasonable person agrees that at the age when we're pushing our smart devices all day, why everyday physical education is important. This is why it is important that 40 sports development takes place in 18 county-righted cities within the framework of the Modern Cities programme. Some of these have already been completed or are in the process, it has a total value of HUF 250 billion, and we can see that every day, either within the framework of the. The Hungarian village, in smaller settlements, in the framework of the "Modern Cities" programme, or within the framework of the National Public Education Infrastructure Development Programme, this is a long programme, but in this framework many dozens of gymnasiums are built, and there are many, dozens of places that are developed, including the construction or expansion of a school gymnasium. [[10.00]] It is very important that indeed, in Tao support, ice hockey, handball, basketball, football, water polo and volleyball sports have been able to achieve improvements that have not been made before. It is also important that as many people as possible have a goal in life, even to become a sports athlete, but more importantly, as many people find the sport that they like to pursue until they are retired, so that we can maintain health. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We also consider sports not only as character-raising, team-enhancing, will-power coaching, but also as a very good health-preventing program. That's why we think it's important. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-19-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, also applied for a pre-meeting speech:. In the interpretation of the LIBE Committee, the principle of the rule of law does not include impartiality and conflict of interest? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-10-19-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, The past period is an example of politicised treatment by international organisations of issues that will affect each other in a negative sense. If the politicised approach to the rule of law, without any legal basis, appears in Brussels, the countdown can almost begin: when will this issue arise in other international organisations. We are debating the rule of law in such a way that the European Union should start from the constitutional traditions of the Member States and attempt, as an almost impossible mission, to approach the Member States on the basis of an objective rule of law concept which does not yet exist. On the other hand, there are basic existing concepts, such as conflicts of interest and impartiality, which are essential for the institutional functioning of the European Union, which must be respected by all committees, including the LIBE Committee. We consider it important to keep dialogue between Hungary and the institutions of the European Union, but there are two directions to this dialogue. We can and do have an opinion on what the rule of law means for us, which must not lack impartiality, conflict of interest, compliance with EU principles. Such EU principles, for example, are that the Union respects the equality and national identity of the Member States before the Treaties, which is an integral part of their basic political and constitutional equipment. The EU Treaty principle is also a requirement for so-called loyal cooperation, which means that the Union and the Member States will mutually respect and assist each other in carrying out the tasks arising from the treaties. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union also lays down that everyone has the right to have his affairs handled impartially by the institutions, bodies and offices of the Union in a fair manner. In comparison, Anna Donáth, a Member of the European Parliament of the Hungarian opposition Momentum, participated in the LIBE Committee's mission to Hungary. The Commission's compilation calls into question the intention of the panel's impartiality, impartiality and objectivity and, consequently, its intention to get to know the real facts. Examining the rule of law without competence and without ensuring the principle of impartiality is nothing more than a lack of credibility at a high level. The European Parliament, which uses the rule of law on a permanent basis as a political instrument and is, for example, accountable to certain Central and Eastern European countries, ignores its own rules of procedure, since it states that if a European Parliament Member's personal interest can affect the performance of his/her duties, there is a conflict of interest. When we adopted the LIBE Committee as a member of the Committee on European Affairs, I personally experienced what the rule of law meant for them in practice: a ready judgment without specific questions. At the same time, it was also clear that international organisations have not influenced each other's practices in a positive direction, but only in a negative direction over the past period. I would like to remind you that the Council of Europe, which is not an EU institution, lays down rules of procedure on conflicts of interest for monitoring committees with similar functions: even the nationality of a neighbouring country cannot be held by a rapporteur or a member of a committee examining the country. Consequently, according to this rule, not only would a Hungarian politician be a member of the fact-finding delegation, but not even a politician from a neighbouring country. The Committee which has come to give lessons from the rule of law is recommended to read the Charter of Fundamental Rights more frequently or the Rules of Procedure and Ethics of the European Parliament. It would certainly be good for his credibility. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-19-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner will respond to what has been said.
u2021-10-19-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear to everyone that the fake civil organizations of Brussels and George Soros have found another excuse to attack our country. As we know, the LIBE Committee is teeming with people who make unreal reports about Hungary and Poland on a conveyor belt-like basis and launch discrediting press campaigns and procedures against us. The LIBE visit was also supposed to have a hidden intention, since they came to our country half a year before the elections, but it tells us a lot about them that during their stay they visited organisations funded by George Soros, a opposition politician and an ideal system of open societies, such as Amnesty International, the Helsinki Committee, Transparency International, and the Association for the Assistance of the Sanctuary Migrants. It is important to note that just three days before the visit of the LIBE delegation to Hungary, the exchange of persons took place, and it is assumed that Anna Donáth, who was famous for the character of not even a patriot, became a part of the group. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Article 228 of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure makes it clear in the context of fact-finding visits:, Members elected in the Member State of destination cannot participate in the delegation. In principle, the rule concerned applies to petition committees, but nevertheless it is clear that the delegation's domestic composition raises serious conflict of interest issues. Moreover, as we know, there is no uniform definition of the rule of law. There are certain elements, such as free elections or freedom of speech and freedom of the press. In our country, these criteria are given one by one. However, while we have the Constitutional Court, Denmark, the Netherlands, Iceland, Sweden, the United Kingdom and Norway, for example, they do not have this democratic institution, they are not subject to fabricated political accusations that the rule of law is at risk. It could also be said that the rule of law takes different forms of expression from country to country, that it is not possible to say for itself that these principles are more or less valid somewhere, that it is possible to analyse each other through a kind of constitutional dialogue and that there are no specific sanctions for this. What report can we expect from the LIBE Committee? Let's not pursue vain fantasies. We can almost envelop the fact that there is a politicised report in the witch's kitchen of the Committee of the European Parliament which is completely lacking the facts. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the migrant crisis in 2015, Hungary has not been subjected to a genderless campaign with political charges as it is today. Nevertheless, the government's position remains unchanged. He continues to enforce the will of the Hungarian people, who do not ask for LGBTQ propaganda and forced immigration. The only real sin of Hungary is that it stands up for the interests of the Hungarian people, and we continue to value the national and European identity, the conservative values and the sanctity of the family. We would all welcome the time when the series of attacks on Hungary will finally come to an end, which can be traced back either to the reduction of tariffs or to the halting of migration, or to the Child Protection Act, so to protect fundamental values, the interests of the Hungarian people, which are not in line with the views of representatives of the multicultural world or of multinational globalist companies or globalist ideologies. Our task is to continue to endure and not to give in to the pressure of Balliberal parties who would slavishly serve these needs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[10.10]]
u2021-10-19-24	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Völner. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Vice-President István Jakab, representative of Fidesz, spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2021-10-19-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to direct your attention today on two important issues: Hungarian bread and bread, which, I think, is an important life force for all of us. In 1979, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation, FAO, decided to declare 16 October a World Food Day. Its purpose was to maintain food problems for most of mankind. , draws attention to the mobilisation of this. In 2001, the World Federation of Bakers declared 16 October the World Day of Bread, the purpose of which is to emphasize the importance of bread as the world's most important food article. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a double jubilee today: two organizations that direct attention to the fact that bread is a part of life. On the occasion of this double jubilee, the Magosz, the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, the Hungarian Kenyere Foundation and the Hungarian Bakery Association decided to conclude a long-term cooperation agreement in writing with their good cooperation so far. Allow me to give a special welcome to the delegation of the Hungarian Bakery Association, which is in the gallery, led by President József Septe, who came to the Parliament today to jointly draw everyone's attention to the fact that bread is part of our lives. Dear Parliament, It was a very important part of the agreement that we could always count on the baker's association as a serious ally in the completion of the program. We are convinced, and allow me to mention some thoughts about the program, that the bread of the Hungarians is the true success story of the Hungarian masters of the Carpathian Basin. This programme came from the heart of Hungarian farmers eleven years ago, and no one started this programme, so to speak, that was voluntarily decided and succeeded by Hungarian farmers. During the first year ten tons of grain were collected, which in the tenth year exceeded a thousand tons of grain. During the first period, it was a collaboration of farmers in a county area, which now brings together the entire Hungarian farming community in the Carpathian Basin, and the community of the diaspora is now involved in this movement. I think that the Hungarians of the diaspora are always with us in spirit, when we organize the festival of the wheat consecration, when we organize the festival of the wheat concentration, or just when the celebration of the donation is celebrated. We're on the same bread! This is our password, this is our password, and my belief that it connects in spirit, linking the world's Hungarianness. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Bakery Association is also doing a very serious job, taking on a very serious task at the time when it wished to participate in this cooperation. The objectives of the bakery association coincide with our goals: to ensure sustainability in the bakery sector, in agricultural production; to encourage the consumption of healthy, natural, additives-free foods, to increase knowledge of bread and its ingredients among the population; to promote national traditions of wheat, flour and bread. This is what connects us, the maintenance of traditions, respect for bread and respect for life. On this day and on the day of the anniversary, on the day of the 16th anniversary, the bakery plants of the bakery of 500 kilograms of flour donated by the Foundation, the Kenyer of Hungarians 15 million grains of wheat, will bake the bread that we provide for those in need. We believe that we all share the responsibility of being Hungarian, but on the table of people everywhere in the world. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] bread at all times. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-19-26	Thank you very much, Vice President James. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Farkas will respond to what has been said.
u2021-10-19-27	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Fellow Members! The last few years have been a major challenge for Hungarian agriculture, as almost all sectors have had to face some unexpected event. This year was particularly difficult and difficult. We know of the difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic, and as a result of climate change, spring frosts, extreme cold and precipitation after May, the summer precipitation in a large part of the Great Plain was 16 millimeters, but at the same time, from last autumn crops harvested in the summer, from about 1.5 million hectares, eight million tons of crops were harvested, which is a good medium average crop. The same applies to our wheat crop, we have a wheat crop of five million tonnes this year, which provides domestic supply and is even exported. At the same time, despite the many problems and problems, we also see that the importance of the sector is increasingly appreciated, and indeed today, I can safely say that the agricultural sector has become a nation strategy sector, which will ensure the safe supply of food to some 20-25 million people after the improvements that we have started in this and last year. In order to maintain the pace of development in recent years, the government made a historic decision by increasing the Hungarian co-financing of the rural development programme from 17.5 per cent to 80 per cent, thus spending some HUF 4265 billion on the development of the Hungarian agriculture and food industry in the support period until 2027. Over the last few years, there has been a series of calls for proposals, and there are still opportunities for proposals, which are aimed at a significant part of competitiveness and efficiency in the implementation of investments, and I believe that this could be a break-out point for the Hungarian agricultural sector. There is a historic moment in the agricultural sector, which can also serve the preservation of the countryside. It is important to point out that the food industry is a strategic sector, the food industry is also our strategic sector. This could also be seen as a national security objective. In order for the Hungarian population to look for and buy domestic food products in the first place, we have already achieved great success in this period. For this reason, we decided that during the summer we announced an additional HUF 200 billion framework for the food industry to modernise technologies. It is essential for the Agricultural Ministry to have a close relationship between operators in the sector and the portfolio. I can say that over the years, there has been a good professional relationship with the various organisations that convey to us the needs and problems of the sector. Among other things, our strategic partner is the Hungarian Bakery Association, and allow me to congratulate the Vice-Presidents and the Alliance on the agreement to be reached. Ladies and gentlemen, Wheat was able to eliminate famine for the first time in tens of thousands of years of human history, making it a symbol of bread baked, a symbol of life. At the start of the 15 million wheat grains program, we did not think that such success would be achieved, so that such a social cooperation, such an economic cooperation could take place in the Carpathian Basin, we can safely say, in the Carpathian Basin, and perhaps we can take the diaspora, which is a serious success of this work. The work of the Hungarians, the selfless, helpful collaboration of the Hungarian farming community in the Carpathian Basin, is a true success story, which symbolizes the efforts made to national survival and solidarity with each other at the same time. [[10.20]] Mr Vice-President has mentioned the importance of this world day. I believe that this world day also highlights the need for food, the values that agriculture produces in Hungary, even here in the Carpathian Basin. I believe that these products will ensure in the long term the safe supply of food, the safety of which has been tested in 2020 and 2021. Covid years. I wish you good luck with this agreement and that this agreement really serves the safe supply of food to all Hungarians. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. CXXXV of 2013 on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and the amendment of certain economic legislation. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. Government referral T/17313. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the rapporteur's speech will be made. Before giving the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have an opening speech, a further speech in the debate and a possible closing statement within a total period of 25 minutes. I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs on National Property.
u2021-10-19-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, CXXXV 2013 on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and amending certain economic legislation The integration of credit institutions established by law has been consolidated to this day. On 31 October 2019, with the merger of 11 savings cooperatives and 2 banks in the company law, a single universal commercial bank with national coverage was established from the previous 120 savings cooperatives under the name of Takarékbank Private Company, which, through its extensive branch network, is capable of fulfilling, among other things, the role of the regional bank. As the central body of integration, the Integration Organisation is a significant player in the domestic financial intermediary system, which, through its assets, makes a significant contribution to the own funds of its members of credit institutions, but as an atypical element of capital, it has now become a barrier to the development of members of credit institutions. In order to ensure that credit institutions acting as members of the Integration Organisation can operate effectively in international and domestic financial and inter-bank markets in the long term, it is appropriate to provide for this atypical capital element in order to preserve the long-term stability of the financial intermediary system, which can be considered as a public interest in the country's financial infrastructure. Accordingly, the aim of the proposal is to phase out the Integration Organisation from the domestic financial system. As a first step, the Integration Organisation shall, on a compulsory basis, invest its funds which may be included in the own funds of members of credit institutions in statutory bonds to be issued by a parent financial holding company in a Member State which controls these members of credit institutions. The bond-issued financial holding company shall also, within the time limits laid down by law, use the amount received to increase its own capital by members of the Integration Organisation credit institution or by additional credit institutions under consolidated supervision with them. At the same time, the proposal will continue the Integration Organisation and its current atypical capital insurance function in order to ensure an appropriate transitional period. However, once the credit institutions concerned have developed their new capital structure and have adapted well to the new circumstances, they may decide to withdraw from the Integration Organisation by making the proposal a major simplification of exit rules compared to the previous ones, so that it can take place relatively quickly. The Integration Organisation shall cease to exist after the last member of the credit institution has resigned and its assets shall be transferred to the State. The draft amendment tabled at the meeting of the Legislative Committee yesterday afternoon clarifies the rules on the withdrawal of members of the Integration Organisation from the Integration Organisation and, in the event of the termination of the Integration Organisation, the rules on the transfer of the assets of the Integration Organisation to the Hungarian State. The rapporteur agrees yesterday and, of course, also today with the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/17313. To discuss the legislative proposal, please support the regulatory intention set out in the bill. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity, my fellow Members, for your attention. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you will have 20 minutes and 15 seconds for your further comments in the debate and at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I therefore give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee.
u2021-10-19-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 October 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2013 CXXXV on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and the amendment of certain economic legislation. T/17313. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 21 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions, on the basis of the rules on the exceptional procedure of the house rules. Dear House, CXXXV 2013 on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and amending certain economic legislation Takarékbank Zrt., established in 2019, operates reliably today. fulfil the role of the regional bank through its national branch network. When establishing integration, the objective of public interest was to reduce the operational risk of the savings cooperative sector, to which the own funds of the Integration Organisation's assets contributed. As a measure of public interest designed to ensure financial stability for the stable functioning of the credit institution sector, it is appropriate to phase out this atypical capital element from the financial system. This bill serves these purposes, and I therefore call on this House to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Salacz. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor F Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor. [[10.30]]
u2021-10-19-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, You have also heard in the expoze that the 2013 CXXXV on the table of this House on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and the amendment of certain economic legislation. T/17313. The operation of credit institutions under the legislative proposal has now been consolidated. On 31 October 2019, with the merger of 11 savings cooperatives and two banks, the former nearly 120 savings cooperatives have now merged into a single universal commercial bank with national coverage, with Takarékbank Zrt. its name, which, through its extensive branch network, is capable of fulfilling the role of the regional bank. I think that this integration was a success story, because the fragmented cooperative banking network and cooperative savings network no longer met the requirements of the age either in IT or in its capital system. Dear House, The bill proposes the gradual discharge of the Integration Organisation from the domestic financial system. As a first step, the Integration Organisation shall, on a compulsory basis, invest its funds which are included in the own funds of members of credit institutions, in bonds subject to the statutory conditions to be issued by a parent financial holding company in a Member State which controls these members of credit institutions. The financial holding company is also required to use the funds from the Integration Organisation through the issuance of bonds to increase its own capital by the members of the credit institutions of the Integration Organisation or by additional supervised credit institutions on a consolidated basis. The proposal also sets out the cooperation obligation of persons related to the transaction with a direct or indirect qualifying holding in the member of the Integration Organisation. However, the proposal allows the credit institutions concerned to decide on their exit from the Integration Organisation once they have developed their new capital structure and have adapted to the new circumstances, by greatly simplifying exit rules compared to the previous one, so that it can be done relatively quickly. The Integration Organisation shall cease to exist after the last member of the credit institution has resigned and its assets shall be transferred to the State. At the same time, the tasks of the integration business management organisation, as defined in the cooperative credit institution law, as well as the resulting privileges and obligations, will be terminated and the joint and several members of the Integration Organisation will cease. Dear House, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said, I believe that the bill before us contains provisions that must be supported, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-19-34	Thank you very much, Congressman F Kovács. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2021-10-19-35	Mr President, Dear House, The third time we heard the same production report, I looked at my opposition friends and asked them: were you convinced? Of course, this is a joke, because it is not a matter of convincing any sober-thinking opposition representative in a third production report in the style of the capitable style from the 1970s. We feel a little bit like when professors meet in the case of a serious patient with a heart condition and look at a single EKG recording, because now the return of ownership to the state or investing in bonds is not, in itself, an attackable and not necessarily a bad idea. So don't think we want to object to everything in the package before us. My EKG reference was that we were talking about a brutal flow diagram from 2013 onwards, and the end point of this, the culmination of which you are bringing here without saying a single word about practically a whole sector being ripped off, the attic swept off, the former savings cooperative members were turned out of their assets, and we should not go without a word, our countrymen have been harmed in the order of ten thousand, and they are now coming here with nice words and production reports to complete the process, to support us in this. The fact is that in 2013 we had already discussed this topic, and at the time László Nyikos was our lead speaker in the Jobbik faction, and he told us that it was practically another symptom and projection of the central power field, and as you have done with different sectors and market sectors, you have done with the savings cooperative system. The 2019 summaries have already perfectly demonstrated that they have managed to eliminate the entire network previously owned by a large number of small rural people in such a way that they have clearly damaged all members of a system of 120 institutions, one hundred thousand small owners, who are non-governmental stakeholders, who did not have a specific interest in what is happening. We also see that when a new large commercial bank and a united cooperative is set up, it is no longer able to fulfil the function that we would expect of a rural bank, and the essence of which would be to contribute locally to patriotic developments, even to small businesses, to facilitating the life of private people, which we do not see in your new system. We also see that when small savings cooperatives were forced into mergers, the state gave a great deal of money to secure the sector, taxpayers helped in, individual cooperatives even out of their will, then they put forward an option for those who had previously been members of the savings cooperative. They could either have cashed their shares and paid another difference at the time, and then they could be shareholders on paper, or they would have to give it up, but they didn't get a turnover, but they got a face value in return. So let's go back to the roots, because when we discuss this bill, which lies before us, it is very, very worth examining where it has taken it since 2013, it has been twisted by the Government of Hungary. Basically, the continuation of the central power field sought to absorb, embrace, send its own governors, and I am amazed that a rural network has been dismantled, stakeholders and members have been damaged, and then here, as if nothing had happened, explain, facts, figures, without anything, that this new centralized centralized department is capable of performing the functions of the country's bank. We haven't heard a single word about why, based on what facts, who says that and on what basis. The thing is, we're meeting production reports in Parliament, and once again, we're seeing an EKG here, a snapshot of the completion of a process. However, we are more interested in where the whole thing started, why it came here, and obviously, if there is a substantive parliamentary debate than there has been before, then the one-off opposition representative may be in a position of decision: it would be very difficult to achieve this in contrast to production reports in the 1970s. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2021-10-19-36	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-19-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Dániel Z. Kárpát began his speech by saying that many elements could not be attacked and very positive, and then he insulted the entire bill for six and a half minutes, and seven times he managed to say that he was a production report. It's not a record. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Are you sick of it?]] 'Cause you've been able to tell Congressman this accusation 12 times. In such cases the words must always be interpreted as if there is such a Hungarian-Z. Carpathian dictionary that we are talking about facts. So when you talk about production reports, we usually talk about facts, results, facts, things that have happened, and things that can be proved by numbers. This is what the production report of Dániel Z. Carpathian means. But the congressman says we should go back to 2013. You forgot to tell the congressman that you were able to buy stock at a reduced price for these people you were talking about. He's always so generously silent about these events. [[10.40]] The honourable Member also forgets that the fact that he is capable of being a bank in the countryside is supported by the fact that 120 smaller financial institutions have been merged by this story, which has been fragmented, have often struggled with labour shortages, have often had problems with building operations, have not had enough capital for their own maintenance, the small institutions are in a difficult situation. Yes, it is possible for such a cooperative to become a bank in the countryside, or it was able to become one, because national access, the presence on the ground, which I think is extremely important in the life of such a financial institution, does enable them to function as a bank in the countryside. Of course, this is not the only bank that could be found in the countryside at all, so let's not pretend that we said that this is the only financial institution that can be found in the country, leaving the borders of Budapest. Of course, it's not that at all. I think that 120 small, fragmented institutions, I think that a country of this size is a lot, a high number is 120, an unduly high number, that if we rationalize this, we simplify it, then I think it is a good direction. Obviously, the congressman has also been generously silent about the fact that we are talking about a HUF 136 billion fortune that goes to the state in this way, and within the framework of the bond issue, the people who will benefit from this money better through the issuance of bonds will have to use it to raise capital. This is exactly what we are talking about if the Member wanted to go back to 2013, that he now has the opportunity to do so. Therefore, we are not looking at a piece of EKG, but we are looking at the results of the last eight or nine years in one, when we say that the time has come when such a system, which is an atypical system in the Hungarian financial market, can be broken down little by little, and in this way this bill will also help, a more transparent, clean and growth-free system will be created and integrated into the normal Hungarian system. I understand, Mr President, that you are trying to de-honest my fellow Members, what arguments are being put forward by the Secretary of State, or what arguments are being put forward by the Minister in the bill submitted, and I do not think that we should go into the debates in the '70s. But under the conditions laid down by law, he will invest in bonds to be issued by the financial holding company... on a mandatory basis, otherwise, he will invest in bonds, so I think that we are going to talk about a proposal for a safe, effective bill that will help further growth in the next few minutes or hours, obviously in a time frame, so in a limited way. I think, as my fellow Members from Fidesz have said, this is a Eligible proposal. To date, no argument has been made to the contrary, angers, accusations and production reports have been made, unfortunately no argument has been made. So until they can make the opposite argument, they will accept our arguments and support this bill, as we will do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-19-38	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-10-19-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Four pro-government representatives have said about the same arguments in support of the proposal, and Dániel Z. Kárpát, looking back here for eight years now, I think he has clearly explained the problem of the opposition's parties with the process of breaking up the savings cooperative system and its subsequent absorption. Let's take a look at the address of this proposal. This proposal concerns the amendment of the law on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and the amendment of certain economic legislation. While we are discussing this proposal in very narrow public terms, we know that Fidesz has terminated its previous television broadcast, perhaps some people are following us on the Internet, and what I would like to say to them in the Parliament on Tuesday morning is that we are now discussing this bill in an exceptional procedure. This is done in such a way that what arrives by noon on Monday can be requested by the government at a very narrow and narrow time. In this case, it is actually possible to vote on the proposal on Tuesday afternoon. You can spend some hope on citizens who have followed this debate or intend to follow it, and, let's say, have looked at the title of the proposal, that the government intends to amend legislation on economic matters, in exceptional proceedings, very quickly, in 24 hours, through Parliament. In such an economic situation, in which this country is present, what does this package do? It does not deal with petrol prices, not that inflation is at its peak for decades, nor does it deal with the price of basic food being skyrocketed. So let us be clear: if there is an exceptional procedure here in Parliament, it is often prevented by the fact that, by the way, they ask for derogations from the political groups, four fifths are actually asked to negotiate a package by consensus in the House, obviously this time they did not ask for it, but they do, because, by the way, I think they saw the outcome of this decision as envelopable. So they didn't ask for an issue like this, they're not trying to deal with people's fundamental problems in exceptional proceedings this morning, but they're trying to put the point on i in a case that really started eight years ago. This process has been very precisely completed by my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpa, and I do not wish to repeat it in this sense. But if we have already made such findings, I would also like to make some specific statements to make our opinion clear. Indeed, the acquisition of the savings cooperatives has apparently been completed, so the integration lasting for many years can be completed, the formation of the final structures has reached the finish line, so the final ownership is also being developed through a subsidiary of Magyar Bankholding. With all of Fidesz's assets, NER's selected player was also placed in the money market in the banking sector. As a result, the savings cooperative system, which is well-known to the citizens, was dismantled by the organization Magyar Bankholding. Numerous legislative orders have been received for these eight years in connection with the year-long construction of the Parliament, which is probably also a type of order. It is clear that this is another proposal for the benefit of the oligarchs of the NER, even if it is true that, compared to the past eight years, there are elements in this issue that appear to be technical at the moment, but it is therefore a matter of ending an eight-year process, the destruction of savings cooperatives, in an entirely unjustified exceptional procedure at the moment. The MSZP fraction says no to this whole process, not to the concrete proposal, but to this whole process. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP, DK and Dialogue.]]
u2021-10-19-40	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varga. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2021-10-19-41	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, If we continue with the approach of 4:2 so far to be understood by the pro-government representatives here, then here comes 4:3, which is that this draft law is, of course, unacceptable. But as we move forward, we will win, honourable Member, you know, because I believe or think that, on the basis of the decisions and positions of the past period, the opposition will reject this law. Just because there are several reasons that make it very spectacular that you are actually preparing to tie up the loose ends, and I'm sure, as long as there is a case where you can't control it, you really don't have to be in doubt in time. The way in which this is done is that if I were to take on the four pro-government Members, it started with the Secretary of State, that he could have done this in practically a few minutes. They want to get rid of this law, too, and they feel exactly that it's not just because Fidesz is about to lose the election and, by the way, he wants to get rid of this story, but because it's embarrassing the way it is. [[10.50]] So far, if we're looking for those points of approach, what has not yet been said about us, and if we're really looking for a new point or a new goal, then I would definitely put one here, and the way the Nut Tree Fund Manager is coming or coming in line, and the way he took over the Savings Bank's assets, as he is doing, as you might say, this year, they were looking for a new fund manager, and here, right, several numbers have appeared, talking about HUF 340 billion today, were talking about a thousand billion forints when, by the way, they were talking about savings cooperatives' assets. Since then, you proudly claim that you created and created a bank in the countryside with a bank on firm legs, which, by the way, has a total amount of HUF 2100 billion. Just, ladies and gentlemen, how do you explain this to those who live in settlements, villages and cities where these branches have ceased to exist and are unable to enter or receive advice, and in this way this possibility has ceased? So in the first sentences of the bill, the bill submitted, there's a lie, it has nothing to do with the bank in the country. Here is what my fellow Member said: it is integrated into the system, the Hungarian system, yeah, the NER system, and they go happily with its owners, József Vida 35.9 percent, Miklós Gál 24.24 percent, Lőrinc Mészáros and his wife now in some composition [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] But 12.5 percent, right, well, who knows what's going on there, Great Szilvia 10.9 percent, and we can go all the way to the four decimal numbers, because the last digit or the last regiment or tens of thousands counts for a fortune this size. So there may still be differences from this point of view. To sum up, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the objective that you have made is to join the NER system, so that today's Hungarian system, it has actually achieved results, and you can congratulate yourself on it. I'd still raise two problems. Here I would like to return to the fact that, having... and reminding you at the same time, you certainly do not want to link these two, but as the beneficiaries of Quaestor appear here among the owners, the tens of thousands who were in Quaestor's loss there have also been forgotten, and on the weekend I have also met several claims who have placed millions, otherwise for the past decade or even longer periods; they are not taken care of until they are clearly provided for by those who are in the NER system, and they are saved from that fund, and they are reclaimed here. The second part, which, in this regard, I think, can be classified as a typical function... is described in this way when it does not function as it is generally said, although, as they say, it has been incorporated into the NER system, but do you actually know what it is, fellow Members? If I'm gonna put it nicely, you're gonna use the power of the state, abuse the law, like a road roller went through a hundred thousand people, they've been trampled down, and they've taken their wealth away from them. If I don't want to put it this nicely, then I'd say you've committed abuse on tens of thousands of people, taken from them, raped them, and created a system for you and an economic unit that serves a few people, and by the way, what you've originally said or did on what you're referring to, this has nothing to do with the country bank, but it has nothing to do with it. This was in its form, moment, and indeed only a few moments when the members of these small cooperatives, small units, turned to the Constitutional Court, such as the Kinizsi Bank and Mohácsi Takarékbank Zrt. They're shareholders, but they've been wiped out. All those involved in this decision are responsible for this, and in this way they have essentially lost their assets. I understand that you're referring here, or, if I understand it correctly, you're suggesting that there might be some sort of compensation in this regard, but you're referring to the opportunity that was involved in this financial institution operation, you've ruined it forever, and you've taken that opportunity away from people. By law, Takarékbank Zrt., which provides various services to cooperatives owned by the majority of savings to date, has been made the central bank of the sector. By acquiring the ownership of Magyar Posta, which had happened earlier, the financial institution was then placed in the majority of the state ownership. Only six months later, when this happened, the government considered that the process started could no longer be reversed and put forward a tender for the sale of state ownership in the savings bank. Well, in this process, gentlemen, they have come to the point that they have turned from the opportunity of many to the property of some people, and, as I mentioned, József Vida, Miklós Gál, Lőrinc Mészáros and his dear wife, I cannot now judge whether they are the owner of the present or the former, but in essence, they are the beneficiaries of this. With this bill, the expansion of the savings cooperative assets continues. By requiring the integration organisation to invest its assets in bonds issued by a parent financial holding company in a Member State which controls the member of the integration organisation and meets the conditions laid down in that provision, with a deadline of 31 January 2022, so let us close everything before the elections, and this is the third claim I make that there is evidence that you are on the flight path, or at least believe that this is the case. I understand that you may be working on this with domestic or beyond legal help, with excellent lawyers, but you cannot forget that this process is being taken into account by you, and this must be verified accordingly, because everything you are presenting here is the tip of the iceberg, and behind this is the invisible one, some of which we have just flashed here, and even as I started from the beginning, the position protected by you four will be indefensible, and therefore the people, the Hungarian people, the people, will be the winner in this, if a little later than we would like. Thank you very much for your attention. This law is unacceptable to us. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-42	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2021-10-19-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Members here on the opposition side have told me almost everything I have told myself at home that it is worth talking about, but at the same time, I would like to point out once again that we are in the final phase of a process where you have destroyed the savings cooperative system and where you have destroyed the members of the savings cooperative. And I think that that can be seen with a smile or whatever, that remains a fact. [[11.00]] There's no coincidence there's an outrage here on the opposition side. In fact, what I would like to say, beyond what my fellow Members have already said, is the way in which this law came before us in an exceptional or emergency procedure. I've been thinking a lot about why. But, after all, it's written in the law. By obliging the players to buy bonds, they're basically transferring the state to wealth and resources, which, let's face it, in the case of such a fortune, will come in handy before the election. We know exactly how much the deficit has run away in the last two years, and we also know that the distribution you're about to make is also in serious need of resources. I think the dead dog is buried here. So that's why you came in here, and not under proper procedure, calmly, but yesterday, about 11:30, this bill came in, and today we're discussing it, and we'll decide on it this week. This urgency is justified or justified by nothing other than the fact that this capital injection and the injection of funds can be received by the Hungarian government and the Hungarian state before the elections. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It is completely outrageous and unworthy that beyond the fact that the savings cooperative members have been eliminated in recent years, and beyond the fact that they have destroyed a functioning system that can be said to have had efficiency problems, but let's be honest, the operation and existence of this was not out of nowhere and not by accident. I think that this bill, with the goals that you have formulated, is unacceptable, which can be read between the lines, and that is simply outrageous. Instead of members of the savings cooperative, some persons close to NER benefit from this scheme. With their full policy, including their economic policy, their social policy, these NER people have been served instead of serving voters, and I think this is another step, another instrument in the process of this path. I don't think I'm going to surprise you if I say that LMP doesn't support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-44	Good afternoon. I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. This would be an opportunity for a two-minute speech, but no one wants to live with it yet. Thus, further speeches by representatives are possible in the remaining timeframes, which you can see on the projection board. I would like to ask you if someone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak, but this question was answered by three people before my question. Thus, in the order of the application, I give the floor first to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I am sorry that Congressman Varga has gone out, because he has started to talk about the economic situation. We heard a lecture from an MSZP representative on the state of the Hungarian economy. When there is an 18 percent increase in GDP in the second quarter, when employment is at record level, 4.7 million people are working in Hungary, and my MSZP colleague says what the economic situation is and why we are not talking about it. Well, let's just talk about it. And then I will come to Congressman Varju, who said he was talking to Quaestor-damaged this weekend. Then why didn't you send them over to your left-wing backgrounds behind the Quaestor scandal? Why didn't you tell me you were gonna talk to them? [[László Varju: I'll send them to Győr!]] I say to Dániel Z. Carpathian that the world has turned around since then. In 2016, Dániel Z. Kárpát called the Quaestor scandal an MSZP scandal in a press conference announcement. And now all of a sudden, they've changed their minds. Then we'll direct further questions to you. But I would like to say to Congressman Varga the following. For example, the state is currently negotiating to buy the airport back into national property because you sold it. They sold out the national assets quite simply. Dániel Z. Carpathian swore again in the covenant that this would happen. In 2006, you sold the airport, the Liszt Ferenc International Airport, at a lower price, by the way. A large sum of this came into the budget, and yet, in the years before the crisis, Hungary was the second place in the world in terms of the largest government deficit, only the war-torn Lebanon preceded Hungary and had a worse indicator of the budget deficit. At the time, even Professor Mellar thought differently about this world, and now he wants to bring it back. The amount of the airport has flown into the state register, yet the second largest budget deficit has been brought together by Ferenc Gyurcsány, László Varju and the others, since Congressman Varju was still dealing with economic issues. They doubled the price of electricity, triple the price of gas. We see what is happening in Europe now, that there are runaway utilities, that they pay twice or three or four times as much for the rent in the big cities of Western Europe as they have to pay in Budapest. If you were on the government, it would be exactly the same as in the big cities of Western Europe with the runaway coppers. And then, in this situation, Congressman Varga says that we should talk about the budgetary situation and the economic situation. When it was exactly you who sold 192 state-owned, otherwise mostly profitable state-owned companies to buddies, foreign interests and everyone else. Congressman Varga was a Member of Parliament in 2006, so he knew exactly what was happening in connection with the sale of the airport, which we are now trying to take back into national property with enormous forces and huge casualties. But that was the case with the energy sector, so it was with national security, national strategy sectors. You took it all with a noble simplicity, and you gave it to your friends and foreign interests, and you sold it. And then you are talking about Mr Varga, when you have destroyed the Hungarian economy, you have put the country in a close state situation to talk about the economic situation and you are trying to lecture us on economic policy. When there is a record level of growth this year, there is a record level of employment, every year more and more investments are coming in, exports of Hungarian companies are constantly increasing, wages are constantly increasing. I am not saying that we are where we want to be, but that the country is constantly producing better and better numbers, and that we are in a better and better place on this road, that is for sure. I find it outrageous that socialist and Gyurcsányist representatives are talking about what the economic situation was like at the time, and they are blowing down the current economic situation, when it was a stone-hard part of László Varju, a stone-hard part of László Varga, a stone-hard part of Ferenc Gyurcsány's decision to get there at that time. Of course, this was not the case before, because Dániel Z. Carpathian criticized this era in the same way at that time; he now embraces it on his bosom and helps to achieve the same second act. In the meantime, Congressman Varga has returned to us, well, Congressman, I would also like to say to you that you, as a Member of Parliament, were involved in these harmful economic decisions. If you want to talk about the economic situation, Mr President, I suggest more modesty and less lies about the current economic policy system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-46	Thank you. The representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, may speak. Here.
u2021-10-19-47	Mr President, Dear House, The thing is, when a KDNP man is lying in the morning, it's a bit irritating, but I have a personal mission, and I feel it. By the way, I feel that I have a good argument with my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, and my personal motivation is that on certain issues, if I don't convince him, I should at least broaden his horizon with facts, figures, a little bit of acceptance of reality. My fellow Member, on the Quaestor scandal, don't lie. Read their home page, the Mandiner portal, and you will read in detail that I held Fidesz responsible for the Quaestor scandal and everyone who operated the surveillance system during previous periods. I am not a big fan of the pre-2010 surveillance system, and I am making the same criticism of this now as I did in 2016. The thing is, for 11 years, you've been setting up a surveillance system that allowed free robbery and brokerage. On the other hand, in 2011, we tabled 24 amendments, my fellow Member. I'm telling you this because you weren't here at the time, but you know that the Economic Committee has been through the 24 amendments that would have prevented the Quaestor scandal from happening. The fact is, your partymates and those sitting there voted against these 24 proposals. They can shake their heads, but your responsibility is the Quaestor scandal, the 18,000 evictions, and I wouldn't be in your place when you have to look in the mirror before you go to bed tonight, what they did to these people. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] You can laugh, fellow Members, but it is the personal responsibility of each of the Fidesz Members that has happened to those who have suffered credit. [[11.10]] Lőrinc Nacsa's blood Bolshevik argument system, however, would have been irritating even in the 1970s. So my fellow Member Varga's right to an opinion is being taken on the basis of which party he belongs to, which brings us to a very dark era, my fellow Member. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] And the fact is, we also have a number of things to discuss in terms of financial consumer protection. You're a man of faith, I'm a man of faith. Perhaps it is acceptable as a common cross-section that the Pázmány Péter Catholic University, such as its books on consumer protection or financial matters, may serve as a standard or acceptable for both of us. I'm trying to make it possible for you to understand what you've done to the savings union members. The fact was that if an analysis of 2019 details this very deeply, I will send it to you on request someone who owned a property with a nominal value of HUF 30,000, then there were two choices before him: or could he exchange this ticket for a savings bank share of what amount, my fellow Member? You were talking about discounted prices: 30 thousand forints in shares, my fellow Member? You didn't, did you? Was there a 300,000 forint stock, a fellow Member, was there? It was 10 million forints! So if someone wanted to change their 30 grand ticket, he still had to pay 9.9 million HUF, with a discount, to be a shareholder. Is that the discount price? Did they draw an aristocrat bottom line that only the rich could get into it and the simple savings company member didn't? The other choice, which was, was to give up on this I do, 30,000 forints, and get 30,000 forints. But let's make this acceptable from a financial consumer point of view: OTP's shares revolved around 12,000 forints at the time of the analysis; now it's a little different, but the scale is definitely 10-20,000. My fellow Member, what is the nominal value of the OTP share? Do you know? I'll tell you, 100 forints. You have returned this 100 forint to the members of the savings cooperative, while the real value of the share can be ten thousand. You have been playing with the nominal value, looting tens of billions of Hungarians. Free robbery, Bolshevik-type attic sweep! You young democrats have become old Bolsheviks, using the same methods: sweeping the attic, taking away economic sectors. And the most pathetic thing about it is that it's spilled. [[F to Sándor Kovács.]] I am pointing to you, not by chance, with a national syrup and a national glaze, while they have nothing to do with right-wingness, they have nothing to do with national thought and protection of interests. Well, you're the best government in Europe. They've created a tax haven state! Stop laughing and stand up and tell us how many percent tax rates apply to a multinational in Hungary [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And what a European average! You will see that the lowest key is facing Hungary. They have created a tax haven climate for companies that need to make sure there's no misunderstanding. I do not say that there is no need for multinationals or banks on the basis of public burdens, but what you have done is that Audi was still granted non-refundable support, and my fellow Member Nacsa, be brave on this subject: when the head of the Audi here revealed that we do not want the non-refundable 1 billion, because we do not need it, give it to those who were in need of it in the middle of the emergency, you gave it to the multi-company company that did not ask for it and did not give it to Hungarian small businesses. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] When we demanded the replacement of 80% of lost wages, this was done by creating jobs in 5, i.e. [[He's showing it with his hands.]] This was noticeable in about five percent of the population. It was promised in November, and there was a company that only came into the account in February, the hardest months. That is how much you consider Hungarian workers, in return, the multinationals will do their best. German car manufacturers practice virtually any kind of favor at any time, and they try to pour a national syrup on themselves. It's bad for you! It's even more pathetic when fidesz prominents are trying to teach opposition actors who they think they're not on the right. I don't like this strapping, because I believe that anyone who stands up for the national advocacy program can feel free to think that it is, but it is very bad for you, even if I don't want you to have your right to do so. The fact is that the situation of the economy is not the subject of this agenda, but let me really have one final half sentence: when you talk about 18 per cent economic growth in a quarter, my fellow Member Nacsa, please do not save time, look into it and figure out what base this plus 18 per cent came from. If you're based on the last two years, you'll see that after a fall, a lucky pop-up occurred, and I'm happy for you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: By accident!]] But in terms of two years, when compared to two years ago, we find an economic growth of around 1 percent and 1 percent respectively. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] We see that there is two percent economic growth, where it is worse in other countries, but it certainly does not give rise to eulogies, especially in addition to knowing how many workers are impossible in Hungary and how many businesses. Look at the debt figures of companies, how many cancellations or forced cancellation procedures have been launched; how many firms are in difficulty; and how the retail loan stock and the debt of businesses have developed in the last six months in one year. You're gonna see a ticking time bomb ticking in this market, and I'm really glad it hasn't blown up yet. In terms of public debt, you have performed an unparalleled feat: sovereign debt was almost doubled in nominal terms compared to 2010. They are trying to cover up GDP, but it is as bad as it was in 2010, so they couldn't show anything in this area. Their sovereign debt management is unimaginable. Each year, during the budget debate and tomorrow morning at the closing account, we will be talking about a thousand billion-dollar scale, so as the military officer, we will be given only for interest repayment; this was in the order of 1,200 billion in 2010. There was a year that went down to 900, but the scale is the same, and you gave me about 11,000 billion as the military officer without any idea. In the first two years, they said that the Hungarian economy would outgrow the public debt, which was their usual expression. The fact is that a few years ago, they stopped saying that because they see that the repayment burden is the same, that the nominal government debt has essentially doubled, so they found themselves in a hopeless situation. They don't have a solution. What is very painful, however, is the issue of wages. So if, after 11 years, a government is campaigning with the promise of a minimum wage of 200,000, it's a poverty certificate. You are the faithful disciples of Viktor Orbán, and I do not want to get this out of the way, they have mastered the two basic principles of Prime Minister's: the code of flexible work campaigned in the Arab world for investors, slave law and the rest, I do not have to go on, and according to the Prime Minister, wages in Hungary are low enough to flow capital here. This is not what we would like to compete with on the opposition side. We do not wish Hungary's competitive advantage to have low wages here. We would not necessarily give multi-company grants of this magnitude. It's not customary in advanced market economies, it's not what makes a multi-company come here, it's just your worldview, your perception of the semi-feudalistic, and on the other hand neoliberal something, this hybrid mixture. They're used to giving something nonrefundable, and then yummy or blessing comes along, and something good is done by the other. It's just that economics and the market economy aren't like that. So I would ask you to reconsider when talking about economic policy, that you should not at least try to represent the national interest. After all, I see that while German car manufacturers' brochures guide the Hungarian government's decisions, GDP data may even be acceptable in three or four years' time, but it is worth looking behind the numbers and looking at the quality index of human life, how good it is for citizens to live in Hungary, why hundreds of thousands of people have migrated from here in recent years. And if you stop lying that you think there are more people coming home than there are going to be, then maybe we can figure out how to help young Hungarians thrive in the homeland. And perhaps it can be said that the interest of the representative of every party in this place is to help Hungarian youth thrive in their homeland, because in such catastrophic demographic conditions, there is no other solution to ensure the self-preservation of our country. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-10-19-48	You're welcome. My patience is surprisingly wide. We welcome all the debates regarding political debate. How to behave is under my authority, so I'll do it. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Excuse me!]] It's okay. So now the representative of Fidesz, Mr Sándor F Kovács, may speak. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the first place, I think the volume and the display are not a substitute for arguments, especially professional arguments. The second thing is, when someone keeps saying something about himself, there must be a lack and a problem in the background. This representation of national interest, I think, is a bit incomplete for those who wish to be added to the list of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and I would like to earn it. [[11.20]] But we are bringing the debate to the professional side, because I think that there have also been a lot of professional issues here. In connection with the merger of the savings cooperatives, perhaps we are few, and I followed this cooperative merger, and I saw that the picture was very mixed among the 120 savings cooperatives. There were some that worked well, economically and rationally, a lot of them that were losing money. With these loss-making savings cooperatives, you could have done what you did ten or a few years ago, that if the bank or cooperative went bankrupt, the investors could run after their money. I found it a very good step to combine these savings cooperatives with integration, a joint development, in a joint consortium, in a joint savings bank, because anyone who has seen a bank from within knows that the IT system of a bank is the most expensive. There are very few banks in Hungary that can finance current modern IT systems. None of these savings cooperatives would have been compatible with Annex XXI. Company requirements, even well-functioning savings cooperatives would have gone bankrupt. The IT system of these savings cooperatives: they used at least three types, they were not compatible with each other. A lot of savings cooperatives had branches that didn't pay the workers' wages, the costs of the rent. It was a very mixed picture. And now, as the Savings Bank was created, of course, it's painful for me, too, in my constituency, there was a savings bank account that had to be closed, now there's a bus instead and ATM machine, because in fact, in the rural small settlement, they might have asked for advice, not to ask for advice when the pension arrived, then they took the pension from the savings bank account. Now these elderly or young people are picking it up from ATM machines. So it was very important to integrate these savings cooperatives, these 120 savings cooperatives, and modernise them and save them because we talked about it, or you talked about how the savings cooperative members were wiped out. Each of their deposits is safe, every right they have in the savings cooperative could remain. Thus, the savings cooperative members have not been spared, but the savings cooperative system, the small pension and savings book that has been deposited there over the years has been saved. I think that the government could not have made a more responsible decision and helped save these fragmented, ineffective branches, rural savings cooperatives, and not the cooperatives, but the money placed there by small depositors, which they can still access at any time to this day. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-50	Thank you very much. A representative of the Dialogue, Mr Tamás Mellar, may speak. Here.
u2021-10-19-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am in a very easy position with regard to the bill before us, because my fellow Members have said all the important things about this. So the Dialogue also believes that the law is unacceptable and that its exceptional treatment is entirely unjustified, so we will certainly not support it. Let me make one comment here, however, on the fact that my fellow pro-government Members are talking about how much of the savings cooperative, a large part of those 120 savings cooperatives, has been in a difficult situation and how the government has provided a great deal of sacrifice for this whole story. So, it's a pretty shady concept of this issue, because it's about market economy operations being decisive and fundamental, and the market is going to sort this whole thing out. If it turns out and the situation is that certain social groups are in an emergency situation, the State may, of course, intervene, but it must do so in a sufficiently normative way, so as to ensure that this kind of assistance is available to everyone and that the whole process is transparent. Well, what's been going on here for the last eight years is a long way from that. So there is no way we can support this bill. Allow me also to say a few words about the economic situation, because on the one hand, Mr Nacsa spoke to me, and on the other, it was very irritating what he said to me as a macro-Economist about the current economic situation. It is certainly true that GDP has increased by 18 percent and 17.7 percent in the second quarter, but I think it would certainly include what was the fundamental and decisive engine for this growth. And if you look at this, you can see that this did not come from the acceleration of market processes, but rather from the peak of public spending, which, by the way, appears very nicely in deficit indicators and has already appeared in the previous period. And unfortunately, I have to say that this will turn out later that some of this growth that has been shown is only apparent, because behind the winging of the construction industry there is a significant part of not real performance, but rather a significant overpriced, which cannot otherwise be traced with inflation, so it cannot be properly deflected. What is typical of the real situation of the Hungarian economy is that half or half of the Hungarian productivity is not like the average of the European Union, and in such a situation, if wages rise, one of the consequences of the increase in wages will necessarily be because there is no sufficient productivity behind it, that it will stimulate inflation. And if you look at and look at what Hungarian inflation looks like in an international comparison, you can see that Hungarian inflation is significantly higher than inflation in the European Union, and in the next period there is an even worse situation in this respect. The same can be seen very well at the exchange rate of the forint, because if you want to compare things, before 2010, there was 260 forints a euro, now 360. If we look at GDP in 2008 in dollars, GDP in 2008 and GDP in 2020 in dollars, then we get the surprising result that GDP in 2020 is lower than that in 2008. By the way, this is what Hungarian GDP is worth. My fellow Members have already mentioned, Mr Z. Carpathian, what debt looks like. Compared to 2010, our debt has doubled in nominal terms and doubled, and I have already spoken about this once, and I have calculated that while I say this speech, Hungary's debt will rise by at least HUF 3.5 million. So this government is very expensive for all of us. From the 2020 accounts, it is clear that the cash flow deficit last year was 11,3%, but the Maastricht deficit was 8 percent, and the debt/GDP ratio rose to 80.1 percent, and at the end of this year it is certain that it will be above 80 percent. Therefore, these figures do not show that Hungary is splitting, but rather that Hungary can only maintain the status quo by spending more and more and by trying to achieve a balance with inflation and depreciation in some way. [[11.30]] Unfortunately, our export sector, the export activity of Hungarian majority companies remains very low, we are forced to export foreign majority companies, so it remains that Hungary is a assembly plant and that the Hungarian economy is such a colonial economy. Unfortunately, this vast amount of additional resources that have been involved, mainly European Union funds, have not created the export capacities that we, say, could or would be able to deliver in the future to high-tech industries, the majority of Hungarian ownership companies, let us say, at least a crucial part of exports. Our exports account for 20 percent of Hungarian ownership companies, and most of them are raw materials and raw materials, so the production that belongs to high-tech is very small and small. I mean, you can say that, and you are right about that, my fellow Member Nacsa, that I was very critical before 2010, what the Hungarian economy looks like, and that is what it is, and I think I was right to be critical, and I am critical now, because, in fact, and in essence, the situation of the Hungarian economy has not changed, it is just as underdeveloped, and it is just as strongly exposed to international economic conditions as it was before. It would therefore be timely for Hungary to finally enter a truly sustainable growth path, because today's path is neither, nor was it the way it was before 2010. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-10-19-52	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varga, a representative of the MSZP is coming. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There is, however, an advantage of this structure, as we speak, that you have to press a button, and then there will be a certain time before you get a word. Those who know me here, in this room, know that if I had been given the floor a few minutes or even immediately after Lőrinc Nacs's speech, it would obviously have been quite different. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] There's this kind of magic. At the same time, I would also like to thank Lőrinc Nacsa in this regard, because large coffee consumers like me, who obviously also need to drink a lot of coffee one day, saved me at least one or two coffees with a few statements, and I would like to thank you for that. However, I would like to clarify what you have said. I'd refer you back to what I said. I'm calm, you can see in the record what the three questions I referred to were. On the one hand, it was petrol prices and, on the other hand, the prices of basic food products and, on the third, the inflation resulting from them in part. I'd like to start with the local authorities. I often refer to the issue of municipalities, not by accident. You say for over a year that the municipal sector has been experiencing a crisis, that the country has a lot of problems, so everyone has to give up income, including the municipalities. This is how the car tax was taken from them, so they took away public support for public transport, a significant part of the business tax, and I could list it. What was compensated was not compensated, especially in settlements with more than 25,000 inhabitants, thus taking the resources needed directly from people to run their daily lives, in fact or indirectly, as municipalities organise urban operations, urban operations and a lot of other things, such as local community transport, and thus put people in a difficult position. They've put the municipalities in a difficult position. They've asked the people and the local authorities for a sacrifice. I would ask you to do this in the first two of the three topics. I would like to ask you to reduce fuel prices that are otherwise very high in taxes. With regard to the exceptional situation, give up a significant part of this huge tax content in order to reduce fuel prices. We know that fuel prices are virtually over half tax, more than half tax. On the other hand, the price of basic foods: indeed, prices for basic foods, as well as fuel prices, are also determined by international economic processes, but many basic foods have a European peak VAT key. You have raised the highest VAT rate to 27 percent. This is Europe's summit, it has been since then, and most of the basic foods are taxed with this VAT key. A very small part is 5%, so it belongs to the lowest VAT rate. I remember that we have made proposals in this House many times since 2012, and for the first time Zoltán Gőgös, by the way, remember, very rightly and professionally based his proposal for the first time from among the representatives of the MSZP in relation to the basic foods, what are the categories of which it is worth to say, the lower VAT rate of 5%. That is what I referred to in my previous speech. Do this. If you put most basic food in the VAT rate of 5%, you can have easier, easier, cheaper access. And, then, I would turn to the third issue here: if you had done all this on petrol prices, fuel prices, and would have done so on basic food, you would certainly have reduced inflation, of course, on a large part of which international processes are responsible, but it also includes the fact that you are demanding a record tax, a European peak tax on certain basic foods and, by the way, people in the price of fuels. I've dissected these three questions, not anything you've said. Look at the record. These issues could be handled and mitigated in your area of competence. That is why I said that when, in exceptional proceedings within 24 hours, the government wants to be discussed in this House on the economy, in its title, that, in relation to the economic situation, in relation to the basic daily lives of people, in an exceptional procedure, I expect you, in the situation in which the country is present, to discuss such matters, not to put the point at the end of an eight-year, minimum, questionable process on the i in such a proposal. The entire process, the destruction of the savings cooperative system, has obviously been rejected by the opposition, I think, or I remember that without exception, but on behalf of the MSZP fraction, it can surely be said that this process has been rejected. Thank you. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-10-19-54	Thank you very much. Representative of the Democratic Coalition László Varju is coming. Here.
u2021-10-19-55	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. We are in a lucky position to conduct such a debate in a diverse way, because if I start from what Lőrinc Nacs says here as a troll in this debate, the answer is relatively simple: the sky is blue, grass is green, Fidesz is lying. So then, what Mr Sándor F Kovács said was that it is visible and felt, and based on his experience, it is not clear, at least not clear, this process that has taken place, and there has been pain in his assessment, and there may have been new practices, if, by the way, such a mobile device is able to use at least some of the services. However, we must sum up the end of this process in such a way that, if, by the way, their deposits have not been lost, but they have a loss which is attributable to property, to cooperative property, and that is why, among other things, we must say that this is unacceptable, but this does not exempt us from the otherwise distracting, totally confusing behaviour that Congressman Lőrinc Nacs shows here with his comments and does not have to be there or do not have to react when he consciously tells us that he is now involving him in the two privatisations, they are trying to promote what an incredible thing they are doing by buying an airport, buying it back, otherwise, after a successful privatisation, you are now buying it back, almost so that they can put their pension hunters in a position before the election. And that's how I see it. [[11.40]] By the way, they want to buy from the credit that they put on the Hungarian people's neck, so that, by the way, at the beginning of your government, and now the government debt is set at HUF 21 000 billion, and now it is exactly double, HUF 42 000 billion. Well, thank you very much for your generous farming, by the way. Then the situation of the economy... The 500-forint petrol price should be remembered so that in any settlement where they are going, gas oil can only be taken over 500 forints, and you will take it into account here. So, they're buying an airport for 1400 billion forints, and they're buying back something that's extraordinarily expensive, so that they can take advantage of their own friends, because that's all that's left, which they don't control yet, so they're trying to do that now. My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, forgot to say that the business will not take place until real owners are admitted, because, by the way, the seller refuses to sign the contract, even in such circumstances, because they are looking for it, and I think everyone should know, and they expect that they will be able or able to operate it professionally. But if I enumerate the stamp collection you bought for 65 billion forints, you are not surprised that this must have made a lot of sense, just like the previous one. To sum up, I must say that the professional debate would certainly make sense, but if you, and quite precisely part of your representatives, are trying to beat one of these with such a troll, don't be surprised that if you get that the sky is blue, the grass is green, and Fidesz is lying. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-19-56	Dear Parliament, Since each faction has time, it is possible to apply without further ado and to yell legally. Now, take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] Very good. I ask you, Honourable Parliament, there is someone who wishes to take the opportunity to speak. (No applicants. ) I'll say no. Thus, the consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. János Fónagy, if you would like to reflect. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-57	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, as author of a draft law, I feel that I do not have the authority to take part in this ethical debate, so allow me to return to the draft that we have tabled and to the comments that have been made on it. Let us perhaps first clarify fundamental issues, not even for the opposition, because it is obvious that whatever I say will not be accepted or accepted, and this is the current status of the original owners of the savings cooperatives. The former owners of the savings cooperatives are merged by the so-called holding cooperative, which holds ownership in a credit institution that is a member of the Integration Organisation. Therefore, the former owners exercise their ownership rights through the holding cooperative. The bill does not affect the rights of the holding cooperative. The rights of savings cooperatives and members of the Integration Organisation will not change within the framework of this proposal, only the rules on their exit from the Integration Organisation will be simplified. The next question was why now. You have also said that this is an eight-year process. Because this eight-year process has just arrived, we have just come to the point that an atypical Hungarian regulation does not comply with EU rules that you have always looked at with a clouded view. This draft is for matching them, so we are trying to bring the rules on this Savings Bank into line with EU rules. The next question was how much the large financial institution that we have created is suitable for the organization that we are qualified as a bank in the countryside. Some numbers: the Savings Bank currently has over 700 branches. For information: OTP is about 400, the Hungarian Commercial Bank is about 70-80. So with more than 700 branches, I think we have reason to believe that this institution is appropriate for the role of the rural bank. The next was the fate of part of the integrated wealth and part of the originally 136 billion state recapitalisations. The Integration Organisation shall record the bond by 31 January 2022. However, the Integration Organisation will be maintained. Subsequently, as long as all credit institutions do not leave the Integration Organisation, this will be maintained. However, the withdrawal may take place within 20 years of the bonding date. Therefore, the assets of the Integration Organisation are not expected to be transferred to the Hungarian state in a short time. Therefore, their short-term predictions to my fellow Members are not justified. To sum up and not react to the opposition contributions that have been made here, perhaps because of my age, because I have heard this in the last 80 years, and I must admit that it is overwhelming to me, but let me also, in obedience to Mr President's intel on this, do not respond to this, but I am still asking you to support the draft law for its original and well-founded purposes. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-19-58	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, and all of you, for arguing in accordance with our agreed rules. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place today. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that our decision will begin at the earliest 12 o'clock, and I will take a break. [[Break: 11.48 to 12.06]] (President: Mr Sándor Lezszak) Tickets: Attila Gelencsér and Dezső Believing)
u2021-10-19-59	Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please check that your card has been placed in the polling machine. The T/17141 Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Certificates of Qualifications and Scientific Degrees will follow. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/1714. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 162 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows the T/17142 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is T/17142/1. No 2 submitted an adjustment to the section of the bill containing the authentic text of the international treaty, which is finally established, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17142. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill by 150 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 6 abstentions. It follows that H/16380 on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2020. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/16380. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution by 116 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 25 abstentions. The 2013 CXXXV on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and the amendment of certain economic legislation follows. T/17313. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/17313/2 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment T/17313/3. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee T/17313/2. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 49 votes against and no abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17313. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 117 votes in favour, 49 votes against and no abstentions. The Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Belize on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic, service and official passports T/17143 follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[12.10]] T/17143/5. T/17143/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The rapporteur is Mr T/17143/8. No 2 submitted an adjustment to the section of the bill containing the authentic text of the international treaty, which is finally established, which is available on the network. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/17143/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17143/7. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted single proposal by 166 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, It follows in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali, signed in Bamako on 7 March 2013 and in Koulouba on 8 March 2013 with the announcement of accession to the Supplementary Protocol between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali concerning the status of non-French forces of TAKUBA, signed on 8 March 2013 in Koulouba. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[Gergely Harvester applauds.]] T/17146/5. T/17146/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The rapporteur is Mr T/17146/8. A number of amendments were submitted to the section of the bill containing the authentic text and the official translation of the international treaty, which was finally established, with a text setting out the wording and language positioning improvements available on the network. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/17146/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, no votes against, with 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17146/7. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted single proposal with 139 votes in favour, no votes against, with 26 abstentions. It follows from the Agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Niger on the legal arrangements for the intervention of the French forces in Niger for the security of the Sahel, signed in Niamey on 25 March 2013 and the Additional Protocol between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Niger on the regulation of the status of French military personnel in Niger in the framework of French intervention in the security of the Sahel region, signed in Niamey on 19 July 2013, on the announcement of accession to the Additional Protocol between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Niger on the status of non-French forces of the TACUBA. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17145/5. T/17145/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[12.20]] The rapporteur is Mr T/17145/8. A number of amendments were submitted to the section of the bill containing the authentic text and the official translation of the international treaty, which was finally established, with a text setting out the wording and language positioning improvements available on the network. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/17145/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 139 votes to one, with 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17145/7. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted single proposal with 139 votes in favour, 1 against and 25 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Z. Kárpát Dániel, representative of Jobbik, I/17289. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 50 against and 1 abstention. Dezső gullible, representative of the MSZP, I/17288. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes in favour, 50 against, with two abstentions. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, I/17286. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes in favour, 50 against, with two abstentions. Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP, I/17281. No response was accepted. I'm asking if the Parliament will accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 50 against and 1 abstention. Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, I/17287. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes in favour, 51 against and 1 abstention. János Bencsik, independent Member, I/17237. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes in favour, 51 against and 1 abstention. Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, I/17291. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes in favour, 50 against, with two abstentions. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, I/17235. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 50 against and 1 abstention. Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, I/17284. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 114 votes in favour, 49 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that the decision on the personal proposal for the election of officials and members of the ad hoc committee to appoint members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority will be taken. S/17321 put forward by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to explain the contents of the personal proposal.
u2021-10-19-60	On the basis of points 4 to 6 of the parliamentary decision establishing an ad hoc committee to appoint members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the National Assembly elects the following officials and members of the ad hoc committee. President: János Halász, Fidesz, member: Dr. Imre Vejkey, KDNP. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2021-10-19-61	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/17321. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 116 votes in favour, 7 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We're about to discuss the immunity and the decision. I would like to inform you that there has been a motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy 8.Bpk.649/2021/4/I. Pécs District Court on a private charge of defamation. [[12.30]] The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/17319. Mr Ákos Hadházy presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2021-10-19-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has already been said here, this week, Congressman Hadházy, I can say that his case has been scheduled for the immunity committee. [[Noise. Zoltán Balczó: Respect the speaker!]] The next one's in front of us, we'll discuss it next time. He contacted the Parliament in the transcript of the Pécs District Court for defamation. Among the facts, I would like to point out that this is a case which runs back to March 29, 2020, where, at four o'clock in the morning, Congressman Hadházy's Facebook entry was insulted by the victim, in which he called him one of the tax collectors of the epidemic. Here, the Member indicated that in that particular situation masks and other means of health, disinfectants, were marketed with a large margin by the undertaking in question, as the Member claims, to be the victim's injury, which is why he turned to the court. The congressman did not attend the session of the immunity committee. The immunity committee, as a private indictment motion, takes the position of Parliament this time as it has done. By a majority decision, the committee decided not to suspend the immunity of the Member in the case in question.
u2021-10-19-63	Thank you, Mr. President. I should now ask Mr Ákos Hadházy, in the script, if he wishes to take the opportunity to speak, but he is not in the room, so I cannot do this. [[It's constant noise.]] Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend Mr. Ákos Hadházy's immunity. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament decided not to suspend the immunity of Ákos Hadházy by 33 votes in favour, 121 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of the House is under the Parliament Act 46/E. Article 47 (1) (a) Acting under paragraph 1 (c), Timea Szabó, the representative of the Dialogue, ordered a reduction in her due fee. The congresswoman asked the immunity committee to repeal the decision. The committee did not agree to the request of the representative. Next, the Parliament Act 51. On the basis of paragraph 7 (b), the congresswoman asked the Parliament to repeal the Speaker's decision. In view of this, the resolution rule of 148. Under paragraph 2 of Section H/1727, the Speaker presented a proposal for a resolution. I, the Member's previous decision to reduce her due fees is equivalent to that of the Member's previous decision. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposal for a resolution, the related speaker's decision, the relevant representative's request, as well as the information provided by the Chairman of the immunity committee, was made available on the website. In accordance with the provisions of the house rules, no proposal or Commission report may be submitted to amend the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if the Speaker's decision is annulled by the Parliament, the Member's due fees will not be reduced, the Parliament Act 47. § 1 (paragraph 1 (c)), the proceedings against him shall be terminated. The Speaker's decision to reduce the fee is decided by the Parliament without discussion. I ask the Honourable Parliament, therefore, to maintain in its scope the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee for the representative of Szabó Timea is held by H/1727. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote. It's a lot of noise. Szabó Timea standing up, pointing to his T-shirt, with a red circle with an inscription "FIDESZ" above it, shows a large and four smaller yellow stars: These are you! That's what you are! You are servants of the Chinese Communist Party! That's what you are! They're servants of the Chinese Communists! You're slaves! Constant murmurs and interruptions from the pro-government benches.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament is the Speaker's decision... [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting. It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 47 votes against, with two abstentions, and the proceedings against this Member are terminated. [[The president's ringing again.]] Dear Parliament, I now ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the decision that has just been adopted.
u2021-10-19-64	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act No. Ogytv. 51. Acting under the powers of Parliamentary Representative Szabó Timea in paragraphs 8 and 9 (b), Ogytv. 51. § 7 (b) on the basis of the request of the President of the National Assembly OE-41/424-1/2021. The Parliamentary Representative of Szabó Timea maintains his decision to reduce the fee of the Parliamentary Representative Szabó Timea in its scope, thereby reducing the fee of the Parliamentary Representative Szabó Timea by HUF 9 686 400 in the same amount as its four-month amount.
u2021-10-19-65	Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] ( Pause: 12.38 12.40 p.m.) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Tickets: Attila Gelencsér and Dezső Believing)
u2021-10-19-66	With all due respect, my fellow Members, if you do not take part in the plenary session, please step out into the corridor. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain laws on judicial matters and related laws until closure. Government referral T/17282. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-10-19-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill, which is held in their hands, contains amendments to several laws on justice and related matters. These legislative amendments are typically combined with the common goal of promoting the application of the law based on the practical experience of the past period and of adapting the laws to changing social, organisational and technical conditions. Allow me to explain in more detail the planned changes to each law. The bill amends the law on the status of judicial staff, the status and remuneration of judges and the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other prosecutors and on the career of prosecutors. Some of these amendments are necessary to ensure consistency within the legal system. It is important to ensure consistency with the rules on the status and remuneration of judges, judicial staff, prosecutors and non-prosecutorial prosecutors. The following amendments to ensure coherence between legislation deserve to be highlighted. The laws referred to shall list the legal relationships which may be taken into account in determining the period of service. The Health Service Service Act has established a medical service relationship and should therefore be reflected in the provisions of certain legal status laws among the accountable legal relationships. Both courts and prosecutors' employees receive a jubilee reward. At present, however, for prosecutors and non-prosecution attorneys' servants, this allowance is also due for 45 years of service in addition to the jubilee reward for 25, 30, 35 and 40 years of service, while for judges and judicial staff it is not provided for in the legal status laws. This derogation will be removed by the bill, with the 45-year anniversary reward being granted to judges and judicial staff in the future. In addition to the amendments that have just been made, the provisions of the bill on the law on the status and remuneration of judges contain additions and clarifications that have occurred in recent years in the practical application of the rules and strengthen the internal coherence of the law and the clarity of the law. The bill will review the requirements for the evaluation of judges, further strengthening the guarantee rules that are already in place during the evaluation. The amendments shall also concern the conduct of the pre-assessment investigation and the conduct of the evaluation itself. As a guarantee provision, the bill allows the investigating judge to submit a request for exclusion against the investigator who conducted the assessment, which is the subject of the service court's ruling. Dear House, In addition to the legislation already mentioned, the bill also amends the Law on notaries. This amendment allows the newly appointed notary, in accordance with the guidance-based practice so far, to use up to one deputy notary until the first annual office examination has been carried out effectively. The notary may not be assigned to a permanent or permanent deputy until the first annual office examination in order to ensure full performance of the tasks arising from his/her seat. An exception is provided if the notary has previously been a former notary of permanent deputy duties as a notary. In addition, the amendment concerns on a technical basis the rules for the reading of the notaries, the preparation of a statement of fact and the deposit and recovery of the private will. The amendment of the law on judicial experts has been included in the bill before you in the light of the practical experience and needs of the past period. One of the main innovations of the amendment is to break off the current double system of disciplinary and ethical procedures and to redefine the concept of disciplinary misconduct by eliminating ethical procedures. As a result of this amendment, as in other professional order, a disciplinary offence will be carried out, for example, in the case of judicial experts, if they violate or threaten the authority of the staff of experts, in addition to the judicial expert's activities, by their deliberate or careless conduct or by their way of life. In addition to restructuring the rules on disciplinary offences, the bill clarifies and complements the rules on the registration of disciplinary penalties in order to protect personal data, setting out the exact content of the records of disciplinary penalties and when their data can be deleted. As I have already indicated, the bill makes minor but important corrections to certain laws. The importance of these is to respond to certain situations of life and enforcement signals. The new rules amend the data content of the methodological letters and the certificate for the appointment of experts, thereby facilitating the work of judicial experts in individual cases and the authority leading to the list of judicial experts. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the Law on Lawyers' Activities is justified by the need to include the medical service relationship between the legal advisers of the Chamber and the legal rapporteurs in the legal relationships underlying the performance of the lawyer's activities and in the rules of conflict of interest. The main objective of the amendment to the Law on Legal Assistance is to allow clients to make more extensive use of legal assistance. To this end, the future assessment of the need for subsidies on the basis of the bill will no longer have to take into account, for example, the proven amount of public utility charges, rent and common costs for dwellings living in a common household, and the proven amount of other expenditure that endangers their livelihood. Another highlight of the bill is that it introduces the institution of a procedural advance, which is favourable and successfully applied in criminal proceedings and in cross-border maintenance cases, in civil and administrative litigation, as well as in non-court proceedings. As a result, seconded patron lawyers will also be more interested in accompanying any prolonged procedures, as they can obtain some of their fee in the form of a procedural advance at a well-defined stage of the proceedings. The bill amends the law on media services and mass communication and certain provisions of the Act on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office and the Supervisory Authority of Regulated Activities. In order to ensure the coherence of the legislation governing each separate regulatory body, these amendments will, on the one hand, standardise the way in which the appointment is made, whereby the President of each separate regulatory body is appointed by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Prime Minister; on the other hand, the rules governing the termination and termination of the mandate of the governors and their vice-chairmen of the separate regulatory bodies will also be harmonised. By amending the Act on Parliament, the purpose of the bill is to standardise issues requiring a two-thirds vote. In this context, the bill links the voting rate required by the General Prosecutor, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights to a two-thirds voting rate. This is necessary because the election of these constitutional organ leaders is also subject to a qualified majority, and therefore, in a clear way, the termination of their legal relationship can only be done with such a voting rate. The consolidation of the voting rate is intended to ensure the coherence of legislation, since the appointment and termination of similar significant constitutional leaders are also subject to a two-thirds voting ratio, and the distinction cannot therefore be justified. The bill also proposes amendments to the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information. The proposed amendment was required by the case law and related questions relating to the General Data Protection Regulation that has been directly applicable since 2018. The info law sets out the provisions to be applied in the info law in conjunction with the General Data Protection Regulation on a complementary basis. Most of the additional rules are the provisions on the procedure and functioning of the Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority. Dear Parliament, External reasons justify the need to amend the General Administrative Regulation Act. With regard to the personal data and address register, registered addresses of notifications have been annulled, and this will be carried out by technical transfer in the Code of Procedure of the Authority in the bill. [[12.50]] Another external circumstance is the coronal virus epidemic, which has greatly accelerated the expansion of electronic administration options in the case of official procedures. The date of initiation of the proceeding will therefore be amended. The bill takes into account the results of digitalisation processes in recent years, the development of government offices, and therefore generally ensures that the procedure is initiated on the day the application is submitted. Certain rules of administrative litigation need to be clarified on the basis of feedback from the practice. In cases relating to public service law, the amendment contains several additions which introduce preferential rules in labour litigation, for example, as regards the definition of the competent court. In the case of deficiencies in the application, natural persons acting without a legal representative shall be given more detailed information by the court or may hold a personal or electronic hearing if this proves appropriate. Given the uncertainties in the case-law, the amendment also makes it clear that the application lodged must also be forwarded to the court if, at the time open to that effect, the defendant's administrative body withdraws or amends the action made to the subject of the action under the procedural rules of the court. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the Civil Code concerns the area of family law, including the relationship between parent and child, i.e. the subject of parental supervision. It should be stressed that the bill was drawn up with the involvement of a working group of excellent representatives of the family law profession, and it was expressed by both the family law experts and the civil society working group. The legislator meets the long-standing need of divorced parents by, on the one hand, providing for the possibility of a judicial order for joint parental supervision in the interests of the child, even if only one of the parents so requests. On the other hand, on the basis of the bill, it is also possible for the court to order, in the light of the interests of the minor child, that parents take turns and take care of the child after their divorce for the same duration. The latter option will not only ensure the maintenance of legal equality between parents, but also ensure that the actual relationship between the parent and his child is maintained. This amendment will result in more than one possibility for the child not to have to divorce one of his parents. At the same time, it should be stressed that both the imposition of joint parental supervision and the decision to provide alternate care are only an option for the judge. It is essential that this is maintained in all cases in a way that is in the best interest of the child, and in no way interferes with the child's development and everyday life. Of course, given the interests of the child and the circumstances of the parents, the court still has the means to give only one parent the right to exercise parental supervision. In addition to the above, the bill amends the Ptk. on another subject, which is based on the digital development of the legal system. It also complements its provision on written matters with a view to standardising the practice of law enforcement. In the spirit of digitalisation, a number of legal areas have been reformed to ensure the uniform use of electronic documents relating to each procedure. The bill sets out the legal relationships for which documents can only be created in electronic form guaranteeing a higher level of security. The scope of the bill also concerns areas of law where a qualified electronic document is justified for warranty reasons. This includes the real estate registration procedure, legal declarations relating to succession law, family law and company law law, as well as documents relating to banking transactions. It is important that the written nature of the declaration of rights by electronic means, which is not covered by the bill, is still examined in accordance with the rules in force. The bill therefore helps to standardise the practice of law enforcement and to ensure coherence between the legislative provisions on electronic documents, adapting to the widespread and rapid uptake of innovative technological innovations. The amendment of the patent law, in addition to other technical amendments based on feedback from professional organisations, focuses primarily on temporary measures that can be ordered in patent litigation. The reason for the review is that, according to practical experience, the regulation on interim measures imposed on the later annulled patent required fine-tuning. The amendments concern, in principle, the rules on the repeal of the provisional measure and the compensation resulting from interim measures which subsequently became unfounded. The purpose of the amendment of the Competition Act is to accelerate the conduct of the competition monitoring procedure, while increasing legal certainty and protecting consumers by increasing the transparency of digital markets. In this context, the bill enhances the powers of the rapporteur and the investigator, gives more emphasis on merger control to bear in mind the features of the digital market and ensures the transparency of the relevant markets. The amendments to the law on the registration of general authorisations for judicial proceedings serve to clarify the data content of the register, while the amendment of the arbitration law clarifies the participation of the member of the Presidency of the Permanent Arbitration Court in the arbitration procedure. The amendment of bankruptcy laws is necessary in order to ensure a small degree of consistency, in particular with interim legislative changes and to clarify the application of the law. The bill also includes amendments to the expropriation law that have been raised on the basis of the experience of the practice of enforcing the law and, while fully respecting the rights of owners, facilitate the conduct of expropriation proceedings in a reasonable time. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, allow me to reiterate the following: the bill seeks to incorporate into the provisions of the laws concerned the needs that have been raised in practice. The amendments also contribute to adapting the laws to changing technical, economic and social conditions and to maintaining the consistency of the various laws. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in agreement with the above objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-68	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-10-19-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, As we have heard in the Secretary of State's detailed exposé, the bill amending certain laws on justice and related matters has come before this House in order to incorporate into the laws the practical experience related to the laws concerned, so that they are compatible with changing social, organisational and technical conditions. However, without a detailed description of all the laws to be amended, I would like to highlight some of the proposals that contain forward-looking provisions, which makes it absolutely justified to support the bill. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Act on notaries would be done on the basis of the comments made by the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries and on the basis of practical questions, according to the bill. These amendments concern the order of the legal effects of the first annual examination of the office, the rules for the reading of the notary document, the evidence of fact and the deposit of the private will. In this context, the proposal ensures compliance with the requirement that the notary may employ only one notary until the first annual office examination. This provision has previously been included as a guideline as a restriction on newly appointed notaries, but requires legislation. The practical reason for this is simple, since at the beginning of the notary service the notary can provide practical training for only one notary deputy. The provision contained in the Civil Code, in the Civil Code, states, as a clear rule, that the private will which was made by the notary will be repealed if it is taken back by the will, but it is not stated in the law that the notary is explicitly obliged to inform the will, which, in my opinion, would be justified due to its importance. Dear Parliament, A number of legislative amendments are proposed in connection with the judicial rules, taking into account practical experience and enforcement feedback. Such is the amendment of the Law on the Service Status of Members of the Court of Justice or the Law on Legal Assistance. The latter is also justified by the practical experience of the past period. The amendments aim to provide financial incentives for patron lawyers and to improve the quality of legal assistance work, to balance the contractual rights and obligations of the legal assistance service and the legal assistance provider, and to give customers access to legal assistance under favourable conditions. [[13.00]] In order to increase the interest of public defenders acting in civil and administrative proceedings and in non-court proceedings in the conduct of proceedings, the bill also introduces the institution of a procedural advance which is already favourable and successfully applied in criminal proceedings and in cross-border maintenance cases. Dear House, The election of the Prosecutor General and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights shall be subject to a qualified voting rate. In line with this, the aim of the regulation is to require a two-thirds voting rate for the termination of the relationship between the heads of these constitutional bodies. The consolidation of the voting rate is intended to ensure the coherence of legislation, since the appointment and termination of similar significant constitutional leaders are also subject to a two-thirds voting ratio, and the distinction cannot therefore be justified. The amendment of the Act on the right to self-determination of information and freedom of information is required by the case law and related questions relating to the general data protection regulation that has been directly applicable since 2018 due to the data protection reform in the European Union. Taking into account the direct application of the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union, the legislative scope of the Member States for the implementation of the Regulation and the derogations expressly permitted by that Regulation are limited to additions. The Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information sets out the provisions to be applied in the Information Act, together with the General Data Protection Regulation, with its complementary nature, most of which are covered by the provisions on the procedure and functioning of the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also concerns the family law standards of the Civil Code, the provisions of the rights of parent-child relations. In recent years, parenting in families has fundamentally changed, and both parents are trying to play a much greater part in their children's lives. In Hungary, there is currently no way for the judge to decide whether to exercise parental supervision jointly even if the parents cannot agree on this. The current legislation can lead to a situation where one parent is forced to divorce his or her own child in the event of divorce. At the same time, it is of the utmost importance for the Hungarian Government to take into account the interests of children as a primary consideration, so the bill also remedys this situation. The wider provision of joint parental supervision under the bill after the divorce legally guarantees the fullness of the parent-child relationship. On the basis of the bill, the judge will have the opportunity to decide on the joint exercise of parental supervision in the interest of the child even if one parent so requests. Thus, parents can, if they wish, and it is more favourable for the child, participate in the child's life with the same intensity after divorce as before. The amendment of the patent protection law for inventions would also be carried out along the lines of practical experience and feedback from professional organisations, on the basis of the proposal, with a view to fine-tuning the patent protection rules with regard to interim measures that may be imposed in patent litigation. In addition, the patent protection law for inventions is complemented by a whole new chapter: research of an international nature. This amendment creates a legal background for international research carried out by the Visegrad Patent Institute. The mission of the Visegrád Patent Institute is to help innovative businesses, universities, research institutes and individual inventors in Central and Eastern Europe to obtain foreign patent protection and thus to enter a secure international market. The new provision of the patent law creates the possibility of carrying out research of an international nature at national level, as in order for the Board of Directors of the Visegrád Patent Institute to take the necessary decisions in the case of Hungarian notifiers in order to be able to carry out research of an international nature, it is also necessary that Hungary's national law allows international research to be carried out. Poland and Slovakia have already provided this possibility in their national legislation. Dear Parliament, There are a number of things that could be highlighted, which are all important in relation to the bill, but for every proposed amendment it can be said that they serve to adapt to changing social and technical conditions, partly with technical clarifications and partly with substantive amendments. The Fidesz Group will, of course, support the bill tabled by the government. Thank you for listening, Mr President, for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-70	Thank you, Congressman Bajkai. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-10-19-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We've got salad law before us again. We always say about the salad law that it can be good, it can be bad, it can be bad, it's bad, and we're not happy about it. Here, 26 laws, if I count them correctly, are amended by this bill. Obviously, Minister of State has said that the practical experience, the proposal of professional organisations, has been included in this, and this has been summarised, and that is why it has become such a salad law, which is the problem most of all that I think it is very difficult to shove down such a salad law at the throat of the opposition. Indeed, if we are talking about and you say that, Mr Secretary of State and Mr Bajkai, this is what you said, that the professional experience, the proposals of the profession and the practical experience are the essence of the amendment, then we say that it is really something to be supported. It can be seen from this bill that the vast majority of the proposals here are really like this, so there is no big deal in this, so it is indeed the professional experience and the proposals of the organisations that have been included, and indeed a good part of the proposals that really bring about the completion of the procedures, or make it easier or simpler. But the great curse of such legislation, such a salad law, is that there are always proposals hidden in it, sometimes not so hidden, sometimes more openly, which are unacceptable, I think that not only for the opposition, but for the vast majority of society, and for those in Hungary who want an honest, decent society, they want a just society, where the primary goal is not to flourish corruption and its care, but to develop and develop social justice. I think that, overall, I will not reveal a great secret if I say that we will not accept this bill, despite the fact that we would be very happy to have one or two things out of it, because if one or two proposals were to come out of it, this would be acceptable and even supportive of the Jobbik Hungary Movement. So with this introduction, I would have started my speech, and then let's get to what is, what is positive, what is negative in this. The subject of notaries is constantly raised. The law on notaries is also constantly being amended, and I believe that at least three legislative proposals are submitted annually by the government in which these laws are applied. I think that it is indeed the practical experience here that constantly reveals the problems and that professional organisations make proposals on how to eliminate these problems. Obviously, what is most important here is the problem of document reading, which is due to the fact that, where appropriate, a 150-page notary document has to be read, which may take hours or even two days, obviously such extra or extreme things have to be thought of by the legislator. This is obviously the case here, and it is trying to simplify and simplify this procedure. The service of the law enforcement staff is the next thing I know. [[13.10]] We often talk to him about this too. The amendment is not too large; there has already been a major amendment on the ground a few years ago, with which we fully agreed. I believe that what is stated here is that, from the point of view of entitlement to the Jubilee Prize, it is obviously necessary to amend it, and this is appropriate, with regard to health service law, which is a new legal concept that has recently been introduced into the legal language. Or that this so-called Jubilee Prize is not only after 40 years, but after 45 years. This is certainly to be welcomed and supported. It is also that, at the same time, after 45 years, six months' salary will be due to the judicial staff. I think that all the things that we do to honor judicial employees, by increasing their wages, their appreciation, are in any way to be welcomed and supported as positive. I can say the same about the bill on the status and remuneration of judges. It is not only a question of extending the Jubilee Prize to 45 years after 40 years, but also of carrying out investigations of appointed judges for a limited period, of carrying out an out-of-court investigation, of simplifying its rules, and of the fact that recognition of the 45-year service relationship is also being introduced here. Here, the main problem is that there was a very negative Fidesz-KDNP law in recent cycles, namely the law on compulsory retirement of judges, which was then pushed through Parliament by a two-thirds majority, which then went to the international court and went through all kinds of legal forums that existed and generally condemned the legal institution that Fidesz-KDNP and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán had invented in connection with this, which was about the forced retirement of judges. Obviously, if we take this into account that they are obliged to retire, they can't stay there any longer, it will be difficult to complete 45 years; and if we start counting very hard that at the earliest age of 23-24 a court author will be in court, then in 40 years he will be 63-64 years old, so 45 years is conceptually impossible because he has to retire at the age of 65. So unless the government plans to raise the general retirement age within a very short period of time, this age limit of 45 will not be used by the judges. That is why I would have a proposal to the Secretary of State to take into account that if, let's say, more than half of the year between 40 and 45 have been fulfilled, the judge should be entitled if he has passed over 42.5 years and retires because he cannot fit into his legal relationship to receive this 45-year-old. I think it would make the system fairer, because if you really do follow up, Secretary of State, you can see that it will be virtually impossible in the future to complete your 45-year relationship as judge. That is why this kind of proposal would be. The introduction of a six-month salary after 45 years is obviously also welcome here. Then, to talk about a negative thing, a very negative thing, this is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. amendment of the law. Here a number of positions are formulated where the possibility of recall is linked to two thirds, who submitted the proposal or if we adopt the bill, in the event that this will be the case in the future. In this regard, I can express my absolute disagreement. What am I thinking in the first place? I would like to make a negative criticism of the functioning of the Attorney General. During his annual hearing, I have always said the criticisms, and all the opposition groups have been very keen on his criticism of the operation of Péter Polt. What do we see? We see that Péter Polt, in view of the 31 years since the change of regime, has completed well over 50 percent as the Attorney General. So in more than half of 31 years, he was the attorney general in Hungary. What's his name related to it? What do we think most about when we talk about Peter Polt's operation? We see that at the time when Péter Polt received the position of attorney general, Hungary was on the world corruption ranking in the middle field and was on the European Union's corruption ranking in the middle field. Compared to this, I have succeeded in achieving the role of the prosecutors, not the role of the prosecutors, but rather the role of the heads of the prosecutor's office, because I believe that the very, very vast majority of the prosecutor's office is doing its job honestly and well, and that they really try to do their job under the law, according to their best knowledge and conscience. However, we must see that reports are constantly being rejected, that corruption cases are not constantly being detected, that the darkest corruption cases occur in Hungary. This is how we got to the point where, today, Hungary is in the last and last place in the European Union's corruption rankings, making one or two places worse each year in this ranking. I think that if there is something to show the work and role of the Attorney General, then this ranking shows exactly what is happening in this country. Obviously, it needed support; it was also necessary that crimes which had previously been regarded as criminal offences were shown by you, the two-thirds majority, by legislation, to be legal, so that criminal proceedings in these cases could not be prosecuted. The purpose of this was clearly to shift public wealth and state wealth to a certain layer, certainly to the economic layer close to the Prime Minister, Fidesz and the leaders of KDNP. This is how we got to the point that there is practically a layer in Hungary today, which lives on a salary of 53-54,000 forints, and another layer will earn billions and tens of billions every month, and the possibility is not the same. Unfortunately, it is not the talent and diligence that can lead to wealth, good work, well-deserved reward in Hungary, but the closeness to Fidesz-KDNP, the closeness to Viktor Orbán, the ability to acquire economic interests. And unfortunately, in this today, we see the D.A.'s office contributing to the farthest. At the time when you intend to cement Péter Polt for another nine years, you insist that if the people have decided to send you out of power and say that we have had enough of the corruption, the institutionalized corruption that has developed in Hungary over the last 11 years, they want you to have a guarantee that you will not be held accountable. This would be the most important thing in a just society, so that those who have wrongfully touched the public wealth, those who have wrongfully taken the public property, should be punished, be accounted for, the thieves should go to prison, their well-deserved place. This is why we need to change the position of Attorney General as soon as possible, not to cement Péter Polt, while at the same time cementing corruption in Hungary. This needs to be changed, the opposition and the Jobbik Hungary Movement are making proposals on this. We proposed joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office so that Hungary could join this organisation. We think it is very important, because this would also strengthen the transparency of public money, the transparency of EU funds and money. This would be necessary, not that they would continue to be opaque, to fish in confusion, and to smooth out the cases that OLAF might reveal, and to propose to the prosecution, which will not be anything later, because we see such examples. We would also find it very important that a corruption prosecutor's office be set up in Hungary. [[13.20]] I don't know why the majority of the government is so afraid to become a corruption prosecutor. It has been set up in many countries, especially in the surrounding countries, and we see how accountability works. This is obviously what they want to avoid, and that is why they are putting in place legislation to cement the current system. In addition, there is only one topic left, not adding to the problem of the prosecutor's office, which is the exercise of joint parental supervision. This is once again a practical problem which is an important issue and can indeed be resolved, and the court could also make such a decision on a unilateral request, not just in case of a joint agreement. I think that this is important, that it is always in the best interest of the child. I am very sorry that the Government is putting forward proposals that will be unacceptable and put them in a proposal of this kind when it could have been put before us in this case a very positive and very good bill. I am very sorry that they did not, and so it is practically unacceptable. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2021-10-19-72	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-10-19-73	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner has already said in his expozee and in the keynote speech of my fellow Member István Bajkai, so I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that the purpose of the bill is to amend certain laws on the subject of justice and related to it in order to make use of the practical experience of the past period and to facilitate the application of the law. Ladies and Gentlemen, I can only express my hope that this bill will not be the subject of the false investigation of another LIBE delegation, which means that Brussels will not have another political witch hunt against us. Although what we have just heard from our better Member, Csaba Gyüre, on the basis of the proposal concerning the Attorney General, does not offer much good. Remember, there are clear rules for the election of the Attorney General. This is not changed by the proposal that we have just tabled. In the left-wing press, false news is being broadcast, because there are absolutely clear rules for the establishment of the mandate of the Attorney General and the election of the Attorney General, which is not at all affected by this bill. The clarification contained in the proposal only includes the existing constitutional practice, namely the fact that the main prosecutor has been elected by the Parliament by a two-thirds majority, and if a mandate is created by a two-thirds majority, it is only possible to terminate it. The latter is included in the current legislative amendment. This is the case for all public-law officials, so the majority of a person's term of office has been two-thirds for the Attorney General so far, and the same majority can terminate the term of office. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the future, I would like to highlight the amendment of the laws relating to the rules of the judicial profession. LXVIII of 1997 on the status of judicial staff. The purpose of the Act is to follow changes in other laws. Therefore, on the one hand, the legal relationship that can be taken into account in the calculation of the medical service service as a period of service will be shown in the bill; on the other hand, the regulation of the Jubilee Rewards, in order that judicial staff will be entitled to a 45-year Jubilee Reward, so that in the future, the period of time spent in the service relationship of the prosecutor and the duration of the lawyer's activities, notary and judicial executive services will be included in the judicial service. Thirdly, the amendment standardises the rules on the status of judicial staff and judges by laying down, in the context of the regulation of the obligation to work, like judges, that, not only in the case of the death of a close relative but also in the case of all relatives, there is no obligation to work for the judicial staff member on at least two working days. CLXII of 2011 on the status and remuneration of judges. The amendment of the Act contains necessary amendments which have already been presented in the context of the amendment of the provisions on the status of judicial staff. The 2011 CLXIV on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. The amendment to the Act, similar to the rules applicable to judicial staff and judges, represents the medical service relationship. The 1991 XLI on notaries. As regards the amendment of the Act, the restrictions on the newly appointed notary until the first annual office exam will be regulated at the legal level instead of the Hungarian National notary Chamber's guidelines. These have already been presented by the Secretary of State, so I would like to highlight only one of them. Therefore, it should be considered as such that, until that date, the notary can only employ one notary. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority) (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The concept of disciplinary misconduct had to be redefined, taking into account practical experience and enforcement feedback. As a result of this amendment, as in other professional order, a disciplinary offence will be carried out, for example, in the case of judicial experts, if they violate or threaten the authority of the staff of experts, in addition to the judicial expert's activities, by their deliberate or careless conduct or by their way of life. The bill also amends the rules on the publication of the methodological letter, which must also be made available on the Chamber's website. LXXVIII of 2017 on legal activity. The amendment to Act C of 2020 on the health service relationship is justified by the entry into force of Act C. The amendments shall ensure that the provision of tasks of the chamber's legal counsel or legal rapporteur can be carried out in the context of a medical service and include the new type of relationship as a rule of conflict of interest. The 2003 LXXX on legal aid. The amendments to the Act are justified by the practical experience of the past period. The purpose of the amendment is to provide financial incentives for patron lawyers and to improve the quality of the legal assistance work, to balance the contractual rights and obligations of the legal assistance service and the legal assistance provider, and to give customers access to legal assistance on a more favourable condition. In the case of legal aid lawyers and lawyers representing legal assistance organisations, the bill defines the provision of legal assistance training as a condition for inclusion in the register of legal assistants. The bill re-regulates cases of termination of the service contract, ensuring a balance between the legal assistance service and the contractual rights and obligations of the legal assistance provider. [[13.30]] In order to enable more customers to obtain eligibility without changing the limits on the amount of legal assistance, the bill extends the range of costs that can be deducted from the total income of those living in the common household. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-19-74	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-10-19-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is a salad law before us, in which many or rather countless areas are affected by minor or greater changes. I'd just like to highlight two of these first. I do not want to fall into the mistake of going through this law through too much professional debate, because we know precisely that the real meaning and the most serious issue of this bill is not a professional issue, but a political one. But let us first look at two points that we would like to make clear that it is important and good that it is in it that it may not have been so, but that is another question. One is the arrangement of the judges' Jubilee Prize, which I would like to briefly set out here for those involved that we support. The other is the regulation concerning joint parental supervision, which, in our opinion or I think, would have understood a separate bill, a substantive debate with those involved, by asking professional organisations, because if there is a hard part of life, if there is a traumatic time for children, which can accompany them to the end of their lives, if there is a situation in the lives of people, and unfortunately, in the lives of Hungarian people quite often, if we look at the number of divorces in Hungary, where there is not much more complicated than there is and there are no two identical cases, there are no two identical people, there are no two identical reasons for ending marriages, it is very difficult to draw up a legal template for them, perhaps in some respects and in certain matters, to make a better solution for children, but you also know that, in some cases, this regulation can cause very big problems, for example in relation to abusive parties. [[Dr. István Tiba takes the notary seat.]] Therefore, I would think that a normal parliament would have to deal with this matter separately, for example, and never forget that any legislation we make here, the institutional system itself, the application of the law, which, in such a situation, enters people's most intimate private lives, and I am not just talking about the court, really depends on whether these will be fair, normal decisions for the child, or whether these decisions will be the cause of even greater human and family tragedies. So in this respect, we would say and propose that this question should be discussed in a separate and transparent manner. But I will finish here, because, once again, I do not want to slip into the so-called professional debate that my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre agreed to, otherwise rightly, of course, but most of the cases are minor changes compared to what is at the heart of this bill. This bill, let's face it, fellow Members, is one of the stages of the process. This process is nothing more than what, even if you may not, but I would like to inform you that your bosses, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, are at the top of the price. They calculate, even priced, that next year you will march into opposition, and not now, but since the end of last year, we have basically been going from one to the other law to the game of how you are trying to move your political power and economic power, your pro-state power into an opposition period. That's the point of the bill, and that's what it's all about. Ladies and gentlemen, You modified the Fundamental Law, not here, in the other room, when 100 people died every day. 30,000 people lost their lives, and as if it hadn't happened, no one has talked about it in the last year and a half about it because of the terrible preparation of the Covid virus epidemic and its impeccable, fantastic government measures, three times as many as in neighbouring Austria, and you have changed the Fundamental Law in these weeks and months. And now, let's just leave it in, that the father is a boy and the mother is a girl, very good, obviously that wasn't the most important part of the regulation, but it's been included in how they're going to take home the state's wealth through private foundations. It was done in the spring, and a thousand-billion-dollar state fortunes were placed on virtually private hands; not simply on private hands, but, of course, on the head of the foundations of Fidesz party soldiers, who then knew everything; it was the next step, the castles, parks, state lands, the entire stock market of strategically important companies, which were owned by the state, including national security, MOL, Richter, worth thousands of billions of forints. Then the resignation of the president of the NMHH fits into this line, that they will be able to control the Hungarian media quickly for nine years, over several cycles, through the media authority, through opposition, according to your plans or fantasies. And such in this bill is, of course, the regulation of the removal of the Supreme Prosecutor by two thirds, or the Kozma Ákos, who I remember well, may have been one of Fidesz' experts at committee meetings at the beginning of the 2010s; and the Kozma Ákos who disappeared as Damon Hill. Well, I'm sorry, yesterday was the debate about his report, not the previous report of his period, we voted on it today, and on either occasion he didn't take the liberty of coming into Parliament and confronting the Members. He sent his deputies; the Kozma Ákos, who, since the Pegasus scandal came to light, said that he was going on leave, could not deal with it now. Since then, for months we have not heard anything about the fact that otherwise the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights would do something to find, otherwise, alleged violations of fundamental rights. And the other half of this bill is the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, that's really his chimbo. They're creating this authority. They're gonna put in all the slugs you've created: the trampdog, the gambling concession that the fidesz, near Orbán oligarchs are changing between themselves like other people change their underwear. Now, in another bill before Parliament, submitted by the Minister of the Interior, they're putting the mining department in a nice place, and they're shutting down the mining department. I'm not sure many people know this, but it's just another bill that's going to be debated tomorrow. And that, no, one of the most important billionaires of the Orbán family's economic income mining company, Daddy's entire supervisory authority over his mining company, is being lifted by you, and now you're moving it under the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities set up by Rogán. And what do they do in this law? They are going to say that, yes, the Prime Minister will not appoint the head of this authority from now on, but the head of state, the President of the Republic, because of his deeply committed democratic commitment, right? The head of state who will be elected quickly for the next term in the next spring, or at least in the pre-election period. Well, how do you think people can't see what you're doing? ! Well, how do you think people don't see that they basically think the whole parliament and the whole people are stupid? ! They create an authority for which Viktor Orbán can appoint his leader as Prime Minister, and then, if there is a change of government next year, the next Prime Minister can't make the same decision? Well, how do you imagine that, and how people don't see that? Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure it is not the first because we see that it is not the first, but it is not the last, proposal before Parliament, which has nothing more real political and substantive than that you are trying to cement money and power in preparation for the fall of the elections next year. I would add that yesterday Gergely Gulyás, in his reply here at Question Time, was moved to lecture my opposition fellow Member, perhaps a better fellow Member, that he does not understand what we are talking about, because the Attorney General, and the Secretary of State, said this in his expo, is appointed by two thirds, so he also needs a two-thirds majority to replace him. That is quite a Dadaist argument, honourable Members. Tell me, why are we discussing this bill now, if it's so obvious? ! [[13.40]] If there was nothing wrong with this regulation, then why bring it here now, that it will be possible to replace him and the former Fidesz expert Commissioner by only two thirds? Look, I don't want to say big words right now, people are gonna decide what's gonna happen next spring, but I think that with these billings, you're gonna raise the stakes, and you're gonna be opening that particular knife in people's pockets, and I really hope that people will see that if they have to, and it looks like it's gonna be slow, we really need to give the next non-fidesz government a two-thirds power next spring to fix these scoundrels. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-10-19-76	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. I now give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2021-10-19-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President. Dear House, As the third opposition speaker, it will now clearly be necessary to repeat certain areas, topics and comments, as my fellow opposition Members who spoke before me have clearly pointed out both professional and political problems in the negotiation of this bill. What's in front of us again? Another salad package. As my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre said, in each of these debates we always say to the representative of the government, his author, that it is not the problem with salad law packages when they put in a package of laws now, in this case 26 amendments to laws, if I have calculated correctly, and the big monstre text up to 121 paragraphs, that is not the problem, because we are opposed to this for some reason, for reasons of principle, but simply because they cannot be handled by the government either professionally or by the public, or, more precisely, by the government. After all, we understand that among many, many, many proposals, you can slip in something that may not be noticed by the public, by the citizens, or by the national government, and that the trick can be played, and that the national government is now pretending to impose on every ten wrong proposals, on proposals considered harmful to the opposition, something that we would support, because we think it is good, forward-looking and useful, and, of course, it creates the political ambush that, but then what the opposition will do with this situation. Once again, as I have said in every such debate, if we put unlinked legislative proposals in a package, it will never lead to this being a transparent, normal, democratic operation, because it is not for that purpose, but I do not assume it from the point of view of the author. Here in this proposal, therefore, with regard to the amendment of 26 laws, the rapporteur says that, on the basis of feedback and on the basis of practical experience, a significant part of the amendments are needed. This is limping because we are reopening a number of laws here, and we are going to redo them a few months ago that we have already modified and changed before. There are laws that are amended three or four times a year. It is quite simply unimaginable that, at every moment, there is a sudden rise of irresistible force, which requires the amendment of a law, obviously there is a problem in the preparation work. The government is simply unable to prepare such materials or submissions in such a way as to stitch together once and for all the experience of the time, to improve what needs to be improved, and then perhaps not to touch it for years. For example, there are laws concerning the operation of courts in different courts, where it is particularly important to have a stable, predictable legal order in this country, and it would be an important basis for not amending laws that create or wish to create it. For example, for the past year and a half, I think it's the sixth time, but we may be changing that law here for the seventh time. This is not the case, my fellow Members, or those who are party to the government. However, I would also like to add what I would like to say in each of these debates, that this package of proposals does not reveal what so many other things do; only here, perhaps, we can conclude from the remarks of the Secretary of State, that they have agreed one or more of his branches with any professional organisation or representatives. If the notary amendment is already included, then it is in consultation with the notary Chamber or not. [[Dr. Pál Völner nodds.]] Now, Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased that we are obliged to note, in each of these debates, that we would be more advanced if this were to appear in some way in the proposal itself. There is no reference to this on their website or in this national text. As I said at the beginning, in this package there are ten bad suggestions for a good one. To say good things, and as my fellow Member, who spoke before me, Tamás Harangozó, the Jubilee Prize of Judges is a good thing to support. If this had been brought in separately, if this had been a separate bill before us, I dare say that DK would have voted unanimously, but with the fact that it was wrapped up in it, and I am about to say the points that are of a weight which is quite simply not politically feasible, cannot be imagined as their support, so, of course, this conflict will also arise in connection with the vote on this law. I'd like to point out two things, actually. One of the things that has also been mentioned before me, fellow Members, is that the head of two authorities will no longer be appointed by the Prime Minister, but by the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic, whose mandate expires next spring. The opposition has initiated a number of initiatives to put the country in a position not to elect the President of the Republic of Parliament for another five years with parliamentary elections taking place a month later, and I certainly hope that there will be a change of power. In other words, one month before the citizens' opinion is expressed, Fidesz will be able to cement someone into the presidential position of the Republic for another five years. It also places a permanent position with a person who can then make it difficult and even prevent the situation of the new government, consisting of current opposition parties and forces, and quite simply the country's governance. This proposal has also been swept down at Commission level and has now been swept off in the comments. We understand why. Because we still need a certain point in this system after April 2022, another point of assurance, and so now with this legislative amendment package, we would be able to get the leaders of these two authorities appointed by this President of the Republic. In other words, they are preparing, or at least creating legal conditions, that if you are defeated in next year's elections, in the parliamentary elections, and so that the Prime Minister can no longer appoint your kind cadres to the head of these offices, then you will be able to do so by the President of the Republic, who has been cemented a month before the election. It's only for this purpose. One of the two authorities is what I would like to talk about for a longer time, this is the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities. There could be much talk about this in itself, and when the debate took place on the establishment of this, we certainly did it with my fellow Members. So, it's a veterinary horse. What the Fidesz did was put everything behind a government office that he could steal from, but everything in one piece. Because let's see what's there: this includes controlling the retail and wholesale trade in tobacco products. This government started its governance with the whole traffutty, ending with the establishment of this authority, among other things, on the commercial control of tobacco products. Then this includes the supervision of the Court Executive Board. From Gambling Control, they've also put a license for gambling management here, to this authority. This authority also supervises the list of liquidators, or even the team of liquidators, and also the concession procedures in which the State participates or the State is present, this authority also acts in the proceedings. [[13.50]] So it's no exaggeration to say that each function, really, can go through these bullet points in its statute, each function is something that we can talk about for a long time, how Fidesz takes money out of it, how it steals, how it creates its own backland permanently from these otherwise paid money by citizens. And then they did Marcell Biró, who was a close associate of Viktor Orbán, with a monthly salary of four and a half million, to monitor how Fidesz can withdraw as much money as possible in the remaining six months, seven months, of course, in concrete for nine years, so he can't be moved without another government coming next spring in this country. Now, the scope of this organization, which has already gained weight and which runs a lot of money, is being extended even more, because it is being put in because my fellow Member also mentioned that this authority will also be the successor of the Hungarian Mining and Geological Service. So basically, the mining inspectorate in Hungary is now in these fidesz hands, and again, a nine-year-old, appointed on cycles, will be in the hands of more than two-cycle people, and will remain there until they think that he can stay there. All of this is done, really shamelessly, so that we all know that this country lives, gets up and lies, so to speak, that they are aware of the mining business of Viktor Orbán's father, the construction projects that the stone and the gravel are carrying from there. It's long to know, now it's been almost 30 years since the Orbán family had the money to start this business at all. It is only because of the shortness of time that we cannot explain them now, but the whole country is aware of it, and you are now loading this activity into this corruption authority led by a fidesz kisser six months before the elections. Congratulations, really. We could say that this is the harshest point of this bill, but we haven't even gotten there yet, because it is the harshest point for me, for us, indeed, the provision concerning the termination of the mandate of the Attorney General. I absolutely agree with my fellow Member before me, it is possible to argue, and we have listened to this argument in recent minutes, that this is only necessary for technical reasons, because this is the way they have acted, and those who have been chosen by two thirds, can be replaced by two thirds, but somehow for 30 years no one has missed this provision or had to write it down. Now they thought I was saying again, six months before the elections, that it was necessary to write that Peter Polt could be replaced if at least two thirds voted in this Chamber. I understand, fellow Members of the Government, that failure is coming, and I understand that you must prepare for this. It makes perfect sense in their own way that this kind of thought, and also that it appears in the law, it is absolutely fine. But let's just say, I prefer open speech, they say it's because of that, and all the other measures that have been put in this package of laws, and what serves that purpose, that's actually why. In fact, I understand that Gergely Gulyás actually admitted here yesterday, in the House walls, that that is what this is about. Okay, then let's be clear. So Fidesz is trying to cement itself, trying in every way to keep every position he has so far held after next year's government change. All right, let's make sure this is it. It is natural on the part of the opposition, I think, and of course on the part of DK, that we will not vote in favour of this, there cannot be a situation in which we will vote, in any way. But I would like to make one more point here, and once again, it is not the first time that you have heard me say this, and many times the honourable MPs and the representative of the government say that they think that the problem is solved, that they have checked it, that they will adopt this law with the pro-government proposals, and that then it is resolved that Peter Polt can sit back and that he does not have to worry. But that is not the case, fellow Members. So we are going to say over and over again that, after next year's change of government, even though this package of laws is written in this way, even though they are trying to cement their cadres and the mechanisms from which the honourable pro-government lords and ladies and their behinds have made such a good fortune, it will be over. This is gonna stop. This will be brought to an end by the opposition, the current opposition, and therefore these laws are not actually meant for eternal life, but will be applied or accepted here for six months with your vote alone. So I'm just suggesting that Peter Polt and all the other gentlemen and ladies who are positively affected by this lie down, because after next year's elections, they will be abolished by the opposition. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-19-78	Thank you very much, Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski. I now give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2021-10-19-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have heard three opposition representatives speak. I can best identify with those who have made a tougher voice here, although none of my fellow Members have been too kind to you now about the bill, nor should I be expected to do so. I think it is not surprising that the rapporteur Minister is not here, but it is important to know this for those who are following this Parliament meeting, there is no Minister here. If we look at the fidesz benches like this, there are even very few of them compared to themselves. In addition to Mr Secretary of State, there are only two pro-government Members in the benches, and I think that is also meaningful. I agree that this bill cannot be approached on a professional basis, it is a very, very hard, hard political message and a hard political step, and we can say that the positive elements of the legislation, which has been presented by my fellow Member of the Gyure, with a very deep professional need, and very extensive legislation, should indeed be set aside, so that we can really focus on the very harsh political step that you are preparing. I can certainly agree with one thing you said, Mr. Secretary. He said that practical needs justify this amendment. I agree with that, but these practical needs are saying that many of you are afraid of election defeat, fear of accountability, and fear of accountability, and that is why you have introduced this outrageous proposal, the most important element of which is obviously the difficulty in replacing the chief prosecutor, at least your intention. Indeed, as my fellow Members have already done, this is part of a process, of which it was a very important element, that you have already outsourced nearly a thousand billion public assets to various Fidesz politicians or foundations under the leadership of the actors of your moonyard. It was part of this process, which is a completely shameful and equivalent to living up to the future, that you have outsourced almost all Hungarian higher education. This was done to the extent that there was no state-owned higher education institution left in Hungary or in the countryside. Here we can count, I counted at least 23 of the Fidesz politicians, former politicians, current or former ministers or representatives, who you intend to put back on top of the foundations uninvited. Yes, this has also been mentioned, my fellow Members, as part of this process, that very important basic government functions have been outsourced to such authorities. Not so long ago, we saw or discussed the Parliament, that you have ventured to the point that the National Atomic Energy Office, the licensing and supervisory authority, has been subject to such a regulation, so to speak, to political control. (In the notary seat, Dezső the Believer Replaced by Dr. László Varga.) But similarly, big projects that you like, leaked out about Fudan University, not even leaked out, but proudly revealed the intention of running out of this investment to the extent that it was impossible or difficult to get out of it, but likewise the case of the Budapest-Belgrád railway development project, a few days ago, was the foundation stone. And then we will get to what is most important in this bill: indeed, Peter Polt, the Attorney General, is trying to recall you for the reasons you have said, with completely unfounded reasons, and make it impossible six months before the elections by trying to tie him to two thirds. By the way, I am very confident that there will be no such problems, because we know precisely that in the Fidesz electoral system that you have created, you have a very narrow list, that if one side receives a majority, it is only a simple, simple or even two-thirds majority. [[14.00]] I trust him very much, and given the developments and processes of the past few weeks, I think that we can all increasingly trust that, where appropriate, the current opposition may be authorised by up to two thirds, and that there will be no disputes in this way. You have formulated some justifications that have tried to justify this very clear and harsh political step, but they do not stop. It is clearly defined which functions should apply the two-thirds rule; in the case of the Attorney General, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, this is only now included. So I repeat: six months before the elections, you suddenly woke up to the need to involve this regulation. This is totally unacceptable, professionally unjustified. I would add, however, that we know that there are very serious anomalies concerning the function of the Attorney General, especially as regards the situation that if, after the end of his term of office, he is unable to elect the Attorney General by two thirds of a Parliament, then the office is extended to the retirement age. This is a very serious anomaly. So if they wanted to touch this regulation in some way, that would have been justified. So here the intention is quite clear: in every possible way, you want to cement people who hold their own power or power in preparation for an election defeat, and that is completely unacceptable, and I hardly believe that you can sell it to the general public with such weak arguments that this is not their intention. Indeed, this is where my fellow Members have mentioned the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, which is once again an outrageous step. I referred to this at the time when I said that you had outsourced important government functions to certain authorities, and that has indeed been mentioned by the speakers before me, that they will try and do not try, obviously, to give the President of the Republic the right to be appointed. But here is another amendment, which I would specifically like to ask the Secretary of State that they would not only change the appointing person, they would give the President of the Republic this right, but that this proposal would also bring in an amendment that would only be possible to deprive the head of office of his duties if he did not comply with his obligations for the current 90 days, but for six months. What would justify such a move? Therefore, if a person fails to comply with his obligation for six months or even 90 days under the current rules, the current provisions do not allow him to be recalled. What is the justification for this six-month extension? So if, for three to four to five months, a person failed to comply with his obligation to pay such high-priority salaries, with such amazing and otherwise unjustified powers and competence areas, you would not consider it appropriate to recall him from his office. This is totally unacceptable. Here, my fellow Members have commented on the Mining Inspectorate. They have obviously mentioned the relationship between the Prime Minister's father and his economic activity. But I would also like to refer to another process. We know the strong relationship between mining surveillance and environmental protection, and the serious conflicts that arise from this. I myself have personally encountered a lot of these kinds of problems here in the last few years, and in many cases, legal action had to be taken when an unauthorised mining activity was carried out. But there is a very, very worrying development. We know that near Pécs once, decades ago, there were uranium mining activities, and there are also interests, there are actors who have not stopped to re-launch this extremely environmentally destructive activity without any economic and social benefits that can otherwise be interpreted. The so-called mining site has been under construction for many years, and that is why it is depressing that if you try to outsource and put these very important official surveillance activities under political control, a region may no longer have the opportunity to protect the people living there, to protect itself and to protect the natural environment. Yes, my fellow Members have talked about the very, very positive elements of this bill, and I also think it is important to say this. Obviously, real and otherwise well-founded practical experiences from the profession are being carried out, which must obviously be justified from time to time. Similarly, judicial staff, the recognition of judges and the regulations on Jubilee Prizes are positive. That is precisely why I say that this is why it is shameful that these otherwise positive steps have been included in a proposal containing such a harsh and unacceptable political step, which would obviously be voted by all opposition representatives. Overall, I can say that, of course, we reject this with our vote, and we are very, very confident that, in the election next year, a very clear and sufficiently strong mandate will be given to the current opposition, and these outrageous steps will be abolished, and we will amend these laws in such a way that the interests of the Hungarian people will be met as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea and Dr. Csaba Gyüre applaud.]]
u2021-10-19-80	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We don't have a two-minute application. Other speeches will follow. I give the floor to independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2021-10-19-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill number 17282, which is about amending the laws of justice, is a major blow and a blow to the opposition in two ways. I think that this bill has crossed a line that government organisations that feel they are pursuing for the sake of home and for the benefit of the people do not submit such a bill seven months before the elections. In particular, this proposal is harsh because it is full of numerous proposals that explicitly include the recognition of specialities, professionals and respected civil servants, while at the same time there are the most low-level proposals, which, for the future, really represent a power cementation. I, fellow Members of the Government and Secretary of State, do not understand. I do not understand, because if you are confident that you will win the election of 22, then you will not bring in a proposal to recall the attorney general by two thirds, or to appoint and recall the head of the new regulatory office, not by Prime Minister, but by President of the Republic, and give no authority to this otherwise misunderstood regulatory office, which, we know, serves the further smooth operation of the Prime Minister's family. Don't tell me these ideas aren't justified. The reason why you shouldn't have said that is because in the last 12 years, it would have been possible for these amendments to be brought here on these issues, and, in fact, the worst of all, I'll tell you that the bill for the establishment of the regulatory office came before Parliament a few months ago, which you just created. What I do not understand is that if, a few months ago, when the office itself was set up, which was probably not a three-day legislation, but a long time ago, it was necessary to think about what kind of power of state they were to put under this organisation, and the rules of office concerning economic life, there is no such thing as there was no one there who did not then think that there should not be a prime minister's mandate and acquittal. You are betraying the citizens and betraying them to opposition politicians, telling the entire Hungarian society that they are afraid, which I think is very amateur. If you're confident, you never show your opponent you're afraid. If you're confident, it doesn't open up to you. And by the way, I am surprised at this package of proposals because I thought the Prime Minister was smarter than that. In front of my spiritual ears, a conversation appeared when someone ran up to the boss about, uh, trouble, boss, the Attorney General could be called back by a simple majority instead of two thirds, and you see that some of the opposition representatives want to take the Attorney General in handcuffs every ten minutes from May, and see a miracle, if they win by a simple majority, they will take Péter Polt to prison. [[14.10]] I'm sure there was such a conversation, and as a lawyer, the Prime Minister doesn't tell him to wait, my friend, we will elect a President of the Republic for five years in March 22. The President of the Republic may, of course, take the initiative of the Attorney General only on condition that he is unable to carry out his duties or committed crimes which require him to be held accountable, so that the President of the Republic may bring this initiative to the House under very serious conditions. That is not what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said, he probably told them that he was okay, that you are smart, that only Peter should calm down. That's about how these conversations sound. Make me think about it. From 22 to 27 there will be a President of the Fidesz Republic. The current Attorney General's mandate lasts until 28:00. In the six years that we have left now, if you commit crimes, it'll be over, so we'll start. And the other is that even if you were left-wing President of the Republic from 27th, you wouldn't be able to tell the Parliament that we should call you back, because that's exactly what I was thinking this morning. What happens then? Then, in international forums, Hungary will be prosecuted for misconduct, and the Attorney General may go to the Court of Strasbourg to move him in violation of the rule of law. So simply now, at this moment in the sky, this proposal doesn't make any sense, because it would be impossible to recall the Attorney General by 27 on the basis of the existing rules, and even after that, we would still need objective circumstances that I don't really believe exist, unless the Attorney General would be no longer with us, but we hope that this will not be the case. So I don't understand with the ruling parties, the pro-government representatives and the government players that they don't think that I won't make such transparent rules before the election. In fact, I have to say, even though I'm about to tell you why I'm angry with the Attorney General, it's hard for me to imagine that he would have expected this to happen, because he knows precisely that the chances of him being able to be called back by even a half majority, well, I wouldn't bet that he would have had a chance. And then there's this regulatory office I was just talking about. It's legislation a few months ago, and it's practically amazing to me that the legislation is so poor, that at that point, one person didn't think, "Oops, the President of the Republic should have the appointment or acquittal," because maybe they'd beat us in April. Therefore, in March, about March-April, when this proposal was tabled, they knew that there would be an election in a year, and they knew that the organisation itself was created to have another authority to which they would somehow de-tach the systems that had not yet been organised. Ladies and gentlemen, The confidence of Hungarian citizens in politicians, even if 750,000 people go to vote 17 months During and by voting online for an opposition primary, citizens' confidence in government and politicians is extremely low in Hungary. Every day they talk about us in words, on different surfaces, like the last of them, and then I didn't even talk about what broad social groups in general have in mind, what they should do to us, which is, of course, unfounded and unjustified. However, when such proposals come to Parliament and we simply have nothing to talk about but that this is unacceptable, can we say that the ordinary citizen is wrong? The ordinary citizen, who is barely able to make a living and who is working fairly, sees that in order for the Prime Minister's father's mines to operate smoothly for at least 18 years, since we see a two-to-nine-year appointment in this proposal, this is more important in the walls of Parliament than there are 450,000 Hungarians whose pensions are below HUF 100,000. Are you surprised they're ignoring us? Are we surprised that people from the private world come in as fake civilians, take themselves and beat everyone, and they are the gods and they are the saints? Don't be surprised when there's so much personal interest and not community interest. There is no legal and objective factual condition in which these proposals could now be put here. But if there are provisions in this proposal regarding the fate of the Attorney General, I would like to say a few words about why I am angry with the Attorney General. First of all, I am angry at him as my former teacher that, after the change of government, almost nothing came to justice from the amount of corruption left behind from the previous eight-year cycle. He didn't avoid it because he didn't. He didn't avoid it because some of the prosecutors can't even ask questions. You can't ask questions to create an investigative material that can prove that the crime has been committed. And I have been angry with him since 2010, because of the corruption-filled procurements presented by various international organisations, the use of EU funds, because although many have ordered investigations and miracles, only one has not had a negative result. People who are designated to be there for corruption crimes will be brought to justice, and it is not common for those who commit a crime to be held accountable and brought to justice. And why I am still angry with the Attorney General, is that I, on the other hand, do not tolerate, as a Hungarian citizen and as a Hungarian politician, Hungarian people, people sworn to the Fundamental Law, to negotiate with governments and government officials of foreign countries in order to interfere with Hungary's social and political arrangements with such methods, and now it doesn't matter which political side I am talking about. There is no way in any country that politicians can play jembo with foreign powers, whose interests we know are not in line with Hungary, can do so without consequence, to boast about it, and to publish transparently in various newspapers and websites, which country's government will intervene in Hungary's next year's election. The citizens of Hungary will decide, either in one way or in another, who will lead the country in Hungary, who will be the Member of Parliament, who will be in charge of the country. When foreign powers interfered with the fate of this country either from the East or from the West, one person always suffered ill, that Hungarian people. So the only lucky thing for people who run abroad is that I'm not the Attorney General. They'd all be under arrest by now! The shock to me is that there is a very broad political community here, and no one will notice that, no one will speak up against it, we will look past it, we will even smile at it, and in the meantime even the most important interests of our country, the most important secrets of our country, and the most important factors of our country's sovereignty, can be spoken and threatened by foreign politicians. That's why I'm really mad at the Attorney General. In the end, I would like to say a few words about the activities of the judges. As a new element in the judicial organization system, this type of qualification and the issue of out-of-court rating appears. To tell you the truth, I'm so sorry I can't vote for this bill, because it's starting to go my way. But what I'm missing from it is this: everyone, myself, my lawyers, either as lawyers or as clients in court, every day we find that judges are violating substantive and procedural rules. [[14.20]] They ignore him, basically pretend, act like they're in retirement, and how does the citizen feel? The law says what rights he has, then goes to a very important person, the judge, who looks at him, and says that you have no right, because I refuse to apply that law, or I do not interpret it that way, or I ignore it at all. I ask the government to begin to work out that when judges' orders and judgments are forced to be annulled, when it appears that they are not doing their job according to professional rules, they should be subject to an out-of-court qualification procedure, and that if they are not qualified to judge, they should leave the field. It is not possible to maintain the system that exists today in the judicial administration system and in the case-law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause for the independents, the LMP and the Dialogue.]]
u2021-10-19-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai, Dialogue.
u2021-10-19-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Well, I'll pick up where I left off yesterday, when I asked the Prime Minister, but instead Gergely Gulyás replied how democratic they thought they were to cement all these state leaders, all those Fidesz party soldiers, who were supposedly appointed to lead independent institutions, from whom they expected to continue living their system, to ensure that this is obviously a rhetorical question. The deepest anti-democratic, but at the same time very cowardly behavior is characteristic of the past few months of Fidesz' activity, which is designed to determine how to follow election defeat, if not to remain in government, but to remain in power. Orbán concluded from his failure in 2002 that it was because they were only in government and not in power, and he concluded that they should as much as possible fill the hinterland with billions of public money apparently stolen, and that the most important thing to do is to cement the in principle independent institutions or the Fidesz party soldiers leading them, who protect them legally, protect them from imprisonment, where appropriate, or protect them from losing the hundreds of billions of forints each year that are negotiated with themselves and, in the framework of a concession, under multiannual framework contracts, or at least in accordance with their intentions, they were assured that the Fidesz Oligaarchs, the Fidesz buddies, could pull out of the common fortune, from the joint cash register the huge sums that could finance the survival of the Orbán hinterland. This is what this whole concept is all about, which we have witnessed in recent months, and one of the most precious examples of this is the current bill that wants to keep Péter Polt, Péter of the Fidesz people in his position as chief prosecutor at all costs, and, on the other hand, to make the leaders of the offices established by outsourcing and outsourcing state functions not under the government, but by the President of the Republic, who, for example, ensure that Viktor Orbán's father's mining company can operate smoothly and deliver the new billions and tens of billions to the Orbán family. This is an infinitely despicable, sly, cowardly policy that you are pursuing, and it would have been more honest and fairer if you had implemented the plan that Viktor Orbán had said in hindsight that they had thought about it at the height of 2012-13, that Hungary would be transformed into a preventive system here, so that it was not necessary to talk about democracy here, so that they played on the idea of a state structure around a very extensive presidential power in which a head of state, such as Viktor Orbán, could do virtually anything. After all, they have come to the conclusion that with this one-party fabric, which you refer to as the Fundamental Law, the social, moral legitimacy of which is equal to zero, they solve the situation and draw up the situation within the framework of parliamentary democracy, behind the scenes of which, in fact, a regime in which every individual official, the head of every independent office, owes Mr Orbán personal loyalty. This regime, which has not formally abolished democracy, has not abolished the rule of law frameworks, but has legitimised illegality, and has in fact opposed not only the spirit of the Constitution, but also the letter of your Fundamental Law, since the exclusive possession of power is prohibited in the Fundamental Law, according to point C. So I would like to draw the attention of our dear colleagues that what they are doing is not only unconstitutional, but also unconstitutional, which will provide us with an excellent basis for destroying these completely unlawful laws. [[Balázs Győrffy intervenes.]] [[Balázs Győrffy intervenes.]] After the change of power. We don't dream about that (Balázs Győrffy interrupts.) The majority of society is behind us in this, my dear fellow Member, and that is why this next spring election will be about much more than a simple change of government; we are asking for permission to change the regime, and this is not an empty phrase, and behind this difference in wording there is a substantial difference, including the fact that the supreme sovereign, the community of Hungarian voters, the Hungarian people can give us permission to simply destroy these illegal and unconstitutional laws. That's what we're gonna do. By the way, Péter Polt is not only threatened by this, but also committed net crimes, so Peter Polt, no matter what laws are passed, that if the independent justice system starts to work here after the change of government, he will have to answer for his crimes in court, and after the prison is clearly unable to provide the chief prosecutor's office, he will be forced to waive this possibility. So this is roughly the position of this Dialogue on the salad law that we have before us, and it is very difficult for us to consider professionally, so I can assure you that in this form, of course, we will not vote in favour of it, and we will do everything we can to abolish such and similar totally unlawful laws after your failure. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-19-84	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. Dear Parliament, I see no more candidates, and I therefore close the general debate and give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2021-10-19-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There were some comments that could be considered professional, and I thank you for partially supporting the bill. The negotiations have been discussed. Indeed, it was also said in the Expo that this amendment concerning certain parental supervision went through the family law task force, and, of course, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the Bar Association, the notary's Chamber, the OBH had been consulted, and many of the proposals here came from these professional organisations, and they gained their form after the consultation. That is why I complain about the general criticisms that are lacking any professional basis in this regard. By the way, I can admit part of the comments that we heard similar ones before the elections in 14 and 18. Obviously, there's already a place where the campaign started. Thank you for your attention and for the support of the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. We now have a general debate on the bill on cross-border transformation, merger, division and other legislative amendments for harmonisation of capital companies until closure. The government referral is T/17280. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[14.30]]
u2021-10-19-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill on the cross-border transformation, merger, division and other legislative amendments to the law for harmonisation of capital companies performs a dual task of harmonisation. It includes, on the one hand, provisions on cross-border operations and, on the other, provisions on new electronic administration rules concerning company procedures. The Parliament discussed in 2017 the 2007 CXL on cross-border mergers of capital companies. amendment of law. The amendment was due to the fact that at that time EU law only regulated cross-border mergers, but not cross-border transformation, so that it was not possible. The amendment regulated a simplified form of cross-border merger which, by significantly simplifying Hungarian rules, ensured that the capital company established in the European Union could transfer its seat to Hungary as easily as possible. In the future, such specific national legislation will no longer be necessary because in 2019 a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2017/1132 as regards cross-border transformations, mergers and divisions was born. The directive now regulates not only cross-border mergers, but also transformation and division. Dear House, The proposal sets out the rules for cross-border transformation in detail and only the different or additional rules for the regulation of cross-border mergers and divisions. It is important to indicate that domestic rules on transformation, merger and division do not constitute background legislation, because the Directive regulates each operation in a very detailed manner. The related rules of company proceedings also require the amendment of Act V of 2006 on Company Publicity and winding-up. On the basis of the proposal, the limited liability company, the public limited liability company, as a capital company, may decide to initiate and implement a cross-border operation. In the case of a cross-border merger, the cooperative, the European public limited company and the European cooperative should also be regarded as a capital company. A cross-border operation shall not be initiated or carried out if, under the provisions of the Civil Code, the company cannot decide on its domestic transformation and if it is subject to a procedure which is incompatible with the purpose of the operation. Such procedures include in particular winding-up proceedings, bankruptcy proceedings, compulsory cancellation proceedings and all reorganisation proceedings. The company may decide to initiate the operation at one or two meetings. The main body of the company shall take its decision on the basis of documents prepared by the company's executive officer. The executive officer of the company shall draw up a draft transformation report and a transformation report. The purpose of the report is to demonstrate the reasons for the cross-border operation and the extent to which the cross-border operation affects the situation of members and workers. Members and workers' and employees' representatives may comment on the draft transformation and report. The draft transformation and the report shall be sent to the court of business, which shall publish a notice of the intention of a cross-border operation in the Company Public Procurement. Like domestic rules, both the Directive and the proposal ensure the right of creditors to demand a guarantee from the company in view of the cross-border operation. In the event of a dispute between the creditor and the company, the court of business shall decide. It may then be decided by a final decision on the implementation of the cross-border operation and that the application for the issue of the certificate be submitted to the court. Dear Parliament, The certificate issued by the company court confirms that the Hungarian predecessor has fulfilled his obligations in the preparation of the cross-border operation. The new provision of the Directive is that it is not appropriate to issue a certificate where a cross-border transformation is carried out for abusive or fraudulent purposes or for the purpose of committing criminal acts which result in or circumventing Union or national law. For this reason, it is also obliged to carry out a further investigation by the Court of Justice. It is important to stress that this directive provision, and thus the proposal, is not intended to create an obstacle to cross-border operations, but to provide a means of preventing fraudulent conduct by refusing to issue a certificate in abnormally illegal cases. The company court continues to conduct primarily company law and company law investigations, but at the same time obtains information on the operation of the company from the relevant authorities and courts. If, on the basis of the information received, you have reason to suspect that the cross-border operation is for a fraudulent purpose, you will conduct an additional investigation. Where criminal proceedings are initiated in the context of a cross-border operation, the circumstances in the criminal proceedings, the classification of the offence, have a material impact on the issuing of the certificate. If there is no obstacle to issuing the certificate, the court of business shall issue the certificate within 90 days. This concludes the domestic phase of the cross-border operation of the Hungarian predecessor company. If the company court receives notification of the company's registration in another Member State, it will transfer the necessary changes to the company register, and the Hungarian company will be removed from the register by registration of its successor. If the preparation of the cross-border operation was carried out in another Member State, i.e. the predecessor company is not Hungarian, the task of the company court is very similar to the tasks arising from the establishment of the company. At the same time, the Court of Justice also examines whether the rules for consulting employees have been complied with. Upon registration of the successor company in the register, the company in another Member State shall be identified as its successor in the register. The proposal also regulates the necessary employee consultation during the cross-border operation. These rules are not new, as they have been applied in several cases by EU law, such as the European public limited liability company and the European cooperative. Following the proposal, the solution of the directive is not repeated by the rules already drawn up in another law, but by the 2004 XLV on the European public limited liability company. It lays down rules relating to the so-called special negotiating body by reference to certain provisions of Law No. The proposal provides for an increased electronic exchange of information between Member States' registers. In the future, the company court will not only accept the changes in the data relating to the foreign branch of the Hungarian company, but also record the changes in the data of the foreign company in the case of the Hungarian branch. The free company information provided through the e-Justice EU portal will cover more data than currently available. In addition to the company name, registered office and registration number, it becomes free of charge, for example, information on the representatives of companies registered in the European Union, the main activity of the company. The proposal sets out the conditions for setting up an online company. The objective of the Directive is to establish a company within the Union from 2022 without having to appear in person before a contributing person, court or authority for that purpose. The procedure for registration and registration of a company has been done electronically since 2008, but there is a pre-jury phase in the formation of a company before the legal representative. The proposal sets out the rules that, when a company is set up, when a change is made, the legal representative does not need to go personally, but all the necessary steps can be taken in the electronic space. In the case of online creation, customer identification, customer due diligence and the necessary documents are also signed by electronic means. The costs of the procedure and other payments, such as the subscribed capital, are also paid by electronic means. In the case of online company formation and change registration, the court-martial deadlines are shortened. Dear House, This year's adoption of the proposal is necessary in order to enable the related IT developments to be carried out until the entry into force of the proposal by 1 August 2022. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in agreement with the above objectives. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-88	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-10-19-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us serves to fulfil Hungary's legal harmonisation obligation, as stated in detail by the Secretary of State. [[14.40]] The proposal is made in the form of 2017/1132. The so-called Mobility Directive amending Directive 2017/1132 as regards cross-border transformations, mergers and divisions, and the so-called Mobility Directive 2017/1132. It transposes the Digital Directive amending for the long-term change Directive No 5 as regards the use of digital instruments and processes in the field of company law. The most complex of the companies is the transformation, i.e. the change in company form, the merger and the division. These operations are even more complex if they are cross-border, as in this case, the law of several States must operate in a coordinated manner. The Mobility Directive facilitates the free establishment of EU capital companies and the cross-border mobility of EU companies by allowing them to become companies under another law of the law of a Member State, to participate in cross-border mergers and divisions without having to terminate first by winding up. The Directive ensures the protection of the interests of members, creditors and workers when carrying out cross-border operations. According to the nature of the Directives, it is for the Member States to define the substantive and procedural framework for the implementation of cross-border operations. Without a detailed description of certain elements of the procedure, I would point out that the proposal regulates the cross-border transformation in detail and then sets only the different rules for mergers and divisions. The draft law is subject to the personal scope of the limited liability company and the public limited liability company, and, in the case of a merger, the personal scope of the directive also covers the European public limited liability company, the European cooperative and the cooperative. The Mobility Directive allows an EU company to move more smoothly to Hungary. This facilitates cheaper and more marketable operations for businesses. In addition, the regulation has an investment incentive, since the Hungarian corporate tax system is particularly attractive in the EU regulatory environment. The Hungarian service environment for the operation of companies is also competitive at EU level. Hungary can win with inward operations, because the conduct of cross-border operations alone generates revenue for the related domestic service sector, the operation of the new Hungarian company generates additional revenue for the service sector, the new Hungarian company can generate new tax revenues, and the new Hungarian company can create new Hungarian jobs. Dear House, The Digital Directive regulates the process of setting up a limited liability company and a branch by electronic means and promotes the spread of online operations at both Member State and EU level. Under the Digital Directive, it should be possible for limited liability companies to be registered online and for new branches to be created by the founders. The point of the directive is to ensure that a company is established without the obligation to have a physical presence before a public authority, and that national law cannot regulate contrary to that objective. At the same time, Member States are competent to establish their procedures. The Digital Directive lays down provisions to ensure that relevant business data can be accessed free of charge from Member States' registers. In order to ensure the protection of all persons associated with companies or branches and the prevention of family or other abusive behaviour, the competent authorities of the Member States may verify that the person to be appointed as executive officer could be appointed at all. To this end, the competent authorities should also be able to establish, by means of a system of interconnection of registers, that the person is included in any Member State register relevant to the prohibition of directors. Dear Parliament, In order to comply with the digital directive, it is necessary to amend the company law. Although the registration procedures have been done electronically for a long time, due to the provisions of the Directive, shorter deadlines should be set for the company procedure. The creation of an online company is a tool for developing an investment environment and culture, because foreign investors do not have to come to Hungary just to sign the necessary papers or to prove by expensive procedure that the paper signature abroad was regular. Increasing digitalisation solutions can make setting up businesses more efficient, faster and cost-saving compared to paper-based procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In order to ensure the functioning of the internal market, it is essential to have an adequate legal environment at EU level, including the establishment of national legislation, so that businesses' cross-border transactions can be carried out more smoothly, efficiently and quickly and safely, taking advantage of the digital acquis. This bill is also trying to comply, and the Fidesz Group will, of course, support the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-19-90	Thank you very much, Congressman Bajkai. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-10-19-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, An important proposal that really affects the creation of a single internal market in the European Union - efficiency, speed, legality - that is what it serves. Obviously, many problems have been caused by the fact that there are still borders within the European Union, there are different legal environments, and the unification of this in economic activities for companies is an important professional task, since farming itself will work much better, they can manage much better, organisations can manage much more effectively if we talk about uniform rules within the European Union. This is why it was important for the European Union to take action in this area in relation to capital merging companies. What are these companies again? Companies with subscribed capital and legal personality which are solely liable to cover the company's obligations with the company's assets, i.e. the members of the company, i.e. the public limited liability company, the European public limited liability company and the cooperatives defined by law, cannot be held liable personally. The main problem was the cross-border transformation, division and merger of companies, and this was to create a new EU framework, a new EU regulation, for which this 2017/1132 was born. EU Directive No 1 on cross-border transformation, mergers and divisions, which governs them most. The transposition period is 31 January 2023, so we still have a long year to live, and this has now been put here in the framework of this proposal to transpose this directive into Hungarian law. We see that this proposal, as I have mentioned, includes, in particular, rules on transversal divisions and re-regulates cross-border mergers. In several cases, the proposal introduces stricter or additional regulations than those laid down in the directive, in line with the Hungarian legal environment. We believe that this is indeed necessary. The proposal considers a cross-border transformation to be a legal arrangement whereby, in addition to the preservation of the legal personality of a limited liability company or a public limited liability company incorporated in the register as a capital company, it transforms the form of a company without successor, without winding up or liquidation, into a legal form under the law of the host Member State of the successor, by transferring its seat at least to the successor Member State. Like domestic transformation, the company's main body decides on these issues. The company must then develop and publish a draft transformation plan containing the most important information on transformation, such as the planned form of the company or reservations, the instrument of incorporation, the proposed timetable for transformation, the details of the safeguards offered to members and creditors, the impact of the transformation on employees, which is very important, since they will not have a job, will not be a very important issue. The proposal provides for an audit obligation by an auditor with the participation of an auditor independent of the company. In order to inform members and workers, the proposal requires the company implementing the cross-border transformation to draw up a report for both members and workers. [[14.50]] The proposal should be published in the Company Communication, the dissemination of data related to transformation should be ensured, the published information should be comprehensive within the meaning of the Directive and should also enable stakeholders to assess the planned cross-border operation. The proposal also allows creditors to assess the potential effects of a cross-border change in jurisdiction and applicable law as a result of a transformation after the publication of the draft cross-border transformation. On the basis of the draft transformation and reports, the main body of the company shall decide by qualified majority to approve the transformation plan and to decide on the adoption of the instrument of incorporation, any amendments which may be necessary. The proposal clearly states that one of the legal consequences of the implementation of the cross-border transformation is that the Hungarian company created as a result of the transformation will be the general successor of the predecessor company, so this directive will create important rules, and this will indeed lead to a more uniform internal market for the European Union and Hungary. Effectiveness, speed, legality, these are the most important points. We think that this should be supported in any way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-19-92	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-10-19-93	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what has already been said in the expozee of State Secretary Pál Völner and in the keynote speech of my fellow Member István Bajkai, so I would just like to draw the attention of this House that the aim of the bill is to harmonise legislation. The proposed legislation therefore transposes Directive 2019/2021 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019, namely the Mobility Directive, on the one hand and Directive 2019/1151 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019, namely the Digital Directive. Ladies and Gentlemen, The advantage of the transposition of the Mobility Directive is that it allows an EU company to move more smoothly to Hungary today, meaning that it can bring its seat to Hungary without having to close its financial or contractual relations in the Member State of origin. This clearly facilitates cheaper and more marketable operations for businesses, but the regulation also has an investment incentive effect, since the Hungarian corporate and tax system is particularly favourable in the EU regulatory environment. When establishing cross-border operations, the Directive provides for the provision of information on accounting and financial data as part of the draft transformation/merger separation, but does not provide for the preparation of draft restructuring asset balance and asset inventory. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-19-94	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Mr. Messenger!
u2021-10-19-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There have been several proposals today, which triggered a great debate in the Parliament, and I see that the proposal on the cross-border transformation, merger, division and other legislative amendments to the laws of capital companies will not cause such a great debate. In fact, I will not repeat what has been said by the speakers before me, and we also see the content of the proposal as necessary, in particular with regard to the fact that a significant part of it also serves legal harmonisation purposes, and we always support this type of motion here in the House and, obviously, in the final vote. In fact, I would like to point out very briefly just a few points that could raise questions. I note that this, which I am pointing out, will no longer change our attitude, so I would like to point out that we will support the proposal, but it may also be worth it in terms of later ones if there are reassuring answers for the outside world. On the one hand, the provisions of the proposal which allow for a very wide range of public and judicial investigations raise the question that such extensive and coordinated monitoring, in addition to the fact that it does not necessarily follow the objectives of the directive, does not prejudice the privacy and business secrets of companies. In addition to the above, a transaction in the public authorities' view and the possibility of a wide-ranging investigation by public authorities may pose a potential risk that the authority may delay or even frustrate the approval of transactions which it does not like. In particular, the above questions arise in the light of the need for the company which decides to transform to add detailed and comprehensive documentation to its application for approval of the certificate, which may in itself be sufficient to enable the Court of Justice to decide on the need for further investigations by consulting, where appropriate, targeted authorities. It seems to me that the rest of what I have to say would certainly repeat what has already been said by my fellow Members who have spoken before me. Once again, I hope that the answers to these questions, not primarily here in Parliament, but later, in this respect, will be satisfactory for the companies affected by the bill. In addition, we will obviously support the proposal in the Parliament because of its legal harmonisation nature. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-10-19-96	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varga, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I do not see a candidate for a two-minute speech, and therefore the general debate is closed. I'll ask the national secretary of state if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. The general debate on the draft law on cultural heritage crimes in Nikosia on 19 May 2017 is now under way. The government referral is T/1772. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Azbej Tristan, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda.
u2021-10-19-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The bill 17272 before you provides for the parliamentary mandate and the publication of the Convention for the recognition of the mandatory scope of the Council of Europe Convention on Cultural Heritage. Today, the number of crime related to cultural heritage elements is increasing. Cultural goods illegally acquired from archaeological sites are increasingly sold across national borders. Such crimes are increasingly leading to the destruction of the world's cultural heritage. The sanctioning of violations of cultural heritage and the restoration of damage will be more difficult or often impossible if the perpetrators or the stolen cultural values are transferred to another country. The purpose of the Convention is to ensure greater protection of movable and immovable property elements of cultural heritage by preventing and combating related crime. [[15.00]] By announcing the Convention, the opportunities to protect our cultural heritage will be expanded and strengthened, thus promoting greater protection of Hungarian and universal cultural heritage. Currently, as you know, Hungary is the chairman of the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee. In line with this important task, our country plays a prominent role in the functioning of the Council of Europe. Recognizing the need to encourage close international cooperation between the Member States of the Council of Europe and States not members of the Council of Europe to effectively combat crime related to cultural heritage elements, Hungary has specifically adapted the signing and ratification of the Convention to the Presidency-in-Office, thus helping to strengthen the Council of Europe's Convention system. The Convention has been signed with Hungary by 13 States, and four of them have ratified it. The entry into force of the Convention requires ratification of at least one other State. With the adoption of the bill and the announcement of the convention, Hungary will be the state that will start the entry into force process during the Hungarian Presidency. This will encourage other states to accede to the Convention, and will make a major contribution to the preservation of the world's cultural heritage and to better sanctioning violations of cultural heritage and the recovery of possible damage. Dear House, As regards the substance of the Convention, it should be stressed that it contains detailed rules on the criminal protection of movable and immovable property belonging to the cultural heritage. It lays down basic substantive criminal law provisions such as the conduct ordered to be punished under the Convention, the rules of jurisdiction, the liability of legal persons, the penalties applicable and the aggravating circumstances under which the imposition of penalties is imposed. In order to achieve its objective, the Convention declares certain acts relating to theft, destruction, damage, illegal export, import and trade of movable and immovable property to be punishable. The Convention aims to establish a closer unity between the Parties to encourage the strengthening of crime prevention and criminal justice measures and to promote national and international cooperation in the fight against crime relating to movable and immovable property elements of cultural heritage. It is important to point out that the Convention makes recommendations not only for actions outside criminal law but also for cooperation in order to prevent criminal offences. Dear Parliament, The cornerstone of the preservation of Hungarian and universal cultural heritage is global cooperation beyond national borders, which can ensure law enforcement in relation to cultural goods more effectively than the current regulatory system. Hungary is also a major player in legal and illegal international artefact trade and, unfortunately, we are mostly among the countries suffering from loss of art. It is therefore of paramount interest that we join the Convention for the promotion of art restoration and for the control of art-related infringements. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support T/1772. Bill No. 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-19-98	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Azbei Tristan. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-10-19-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Council of Europe Convention on Cultural Heritage Crime seeks to protect cultural heritage elements by three means. Firstly, it makes certain acts criminal, thus preventing and preventing the destruction, damage and trafficking of cultural heritage elements. Secondly, it strengthens crime prevention and criminal justice measures in relation to these crimes. Thirdly, it promotes international cooperation. The Parties to the Convention commit themselves, in order to achieve the objectives, to be a criminal offence in their national criminal law, to theft and otherwise theft, illegal exploration, trafficking, placing on the market, destruction and destruction of cultural goods, and to forgery of their documents. They also undertake to provide for effective and proportionate sanctions that are sufficiently dissuasive for both natural and legal persons. They shall also take steps to ensure that the final judgments given by each other in such criminal matters can be taken into account, to consider the establishment of investigative units specialised in the field of combating the illegal trade in cultural heritage elements and to provide each other with legal aid in criminal matters in those matters. In addition, they shall endeavour to take various administrative preventive measures, establish and operate record-keeping and certification systems, and shall commit themselves to cooperation, consultation and exchange of information. The monitoring, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the Convention shall be carried out by a committee composed of representatives of the Parties, convened by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. This committee shall make proposals from the Ministerial Committee of the Council of Europe for the effective implementation of the Convention. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) As Mr Secretary of State has already said, but I would like to emphasise myself that the agreement concluded in May 2017 has so far been signed by 13 people, but will only enter into force, as has been said, if at least five states ratify it, and Hungary can be of key importance in this respect, as we are the fifth ones who will do so, as we hope. That is why, and accordingly, I call on my fellow Members to support the bill, which, of course, will be supported by the Fidesz-KDNP Group. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-19-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-10-19-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. When such a bill comes into our hands, what question do we ask ourselves first? We ask whether this regulation is necessary. And if we ask that question, then the answer will be clear, yes, we need it. And if we look at this, we see that we are looking at a problem of thousands of years or thousands of years, because theft and removal of art, cultural goods, is a problem of many millennia. Yes, when we see it when it comes to the 19th century. In the century, excavations, the exploration of ancient Egypt's treasures began in Egypt, what did archaeologists face at that time? They faced the fact that most of the tombs had already been robbed, and not at the time, but even in ancient times, thousands of years before, and these treasures, cultural goods, and art treasures that were there, could only discover a tiny fraction of them. Obviously, two to three thousand years before our Common Era, in ancient Egypt, there wasn't as serious legislation as it is today, but it has to be seen that this is still a serious problem. And if I have already talked about such ancient crimes, let us also say that it is no coincidence that this convention bears the name of Nicosia and is linked to Nicosia, because Cyprus is an important area where there has been a serious culture already in ancient times, which is an area of Europe, perhaps the oldest, one of the oldest ancient cultures. [[15.10]] So the cultural treasures and the artifacts there are very important to all of Europe and even the whole world. But what we have seen is that these acts are not just antiquity, because as the storm of history marched through Europe and the world, it has always been observed that the art has played a strange role. Whether you look at the case of Nazi Germany, or if you look at the fact that, after the fall of Béla Kun in 1919, at the Romanian invasion in Budapest, the Romanian troops wanted to kidnap the art treasure of the entire National Museum and take it from the country, then we see that the XX. It was also a problem in the first century. [[Continue in 217/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary And then we can mention here the Hungarian artifacts, which have gone abroad and are there at the moment. Perhaps Mr Secretary of State has mentioned how important it is that sooner or later they are returned to his rightful owner and to the country where this was actually created and rightly deserved. And how much has been removed from Hungary, which is ours! Whether we talk about the Seuso treasures here, which has returned to Hungary to God, it is true that at the cost of serious financial sacrifices, we can talk about the Bocskai Crown, which is currently located in the Viennese treasury, which Bocskai received as a Hungarian king, and yet he is abroad, in Vienna, and the negotiations that served to bring him back to his rightful owner, Hungary, have not resulted in any result. What we're seeing is that unfortunately, it's the 21st. There are wars in the century, and here we have to mention the Middle East and the Middle East, where the destruction, destruction, abduction, and serious chains of art became a very serious problem, and then terrorist organizations joined. We can talk about the role of the Islamic State here, where the delivery of art to Western Europe and the United States was a major source of income, and the sale there, which produced very serious money, which could then be used for terrorist purposes. So they also show that this is indeed the 21st century. It is also a very serious problem in the century. And how can one of these be suppressed in the bud? It can only be if there is serious international cooperation, because we see that there are serious international roads here, which these artifacts go through, and we can only cut through these roads if there is international cooperation. That is why this is necessary, and I very much welcome this kind of proposal that has come before us now. Obviously, man is proud of his past, for without his past, he may not have a present or a future for any country or nation. If we value our past, we appreciate the objects, the memories that came from our ancestors' age, and we are proud of it. Obviously, we want everything to stay here in Hungary, and every state and every nation wants to be able to preserve the cultural monuments that they and their ancestors created, which they can rightly be proud of today's descendants. That is why it is important that we have this proposal, which gives us the opportunity to do so, and there is a great need for this cooperation and for this convention to be put into effect as soon as possible. After all, we see that the number of crimes relating to the elements of cultural heritage has been increasing in recent years. And where are we going? This leads to the destruction of the world's cultural heritage. As I said before, organised crime and even terrorist organisations are involved in these actions. Swimming, real estate and cultural heritage are also the subject of this kind of protection that this proposal would offer. Of course, it concerns archeological findings, the removal, retention, illegal import, export, illegal acquisition, placing on the market of archaeological artifacts, and any other criminal form in this regard, such as forgery of documents, which could in practice be legalised with a false document, or even the issue of destruction, destruction, jurisdiction, or liability of legal entities. However, if there is no international cooperation in these matters, it is certain that we will not be able to move here from the deadlock where we are, because it is very important that theft, destruction, damage, illegal exports, illegal imports and trafficking should be reduced as soon as possible and that every nation, every nation, can preserve its own cultural and archaeological heritage. We therefore support this proposal in any way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-19-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2021-10-19-103	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, State Secretary Azbej Tristan presented the bill in detail in his exposé, and my fellow Member István Bajkai added it in his keynote speech, and my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre gave me a very good, exciting historical overview of the danger they have been and are still exposed to our cultural heritage for thousands of years. I would therefore like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that the Convention has been signed by 13 States, together with Hungary, and has so far been ratified by four states: Cyprus, Greece, Latvia and Mexico. The Convention has not yet entered into force, and in order to be able to enter into force, it is still necessary to ratify a State, and that is what we are working on. I hope that Hungary will be the Member State whose ratification will allow the entry into force process to start with the adoption of the bill and the publication of the convention. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would also like to say very briefly that the aim of the Convention is to create greater protection of movable and immovable elements of cultural heritage, given the circumstances which, as has been said, have existed for thousands of years, and the number of crimes relating to cultural heritage elements is still growing, women and women. Cultural goods unlawfully removed, exported or imported from archaeological sites are increasingly sold across borders. Such crimes are increasingly leading to the destruction of our cultural heritage. The Convention also contains explicit provisions concerning the initiation of proceedings and the conduct of an investigation. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-10-19-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Just like on the previous agenda, I can tell you here that this is not going to be a big debate between us, not this agenda. In general, the international conventions, the very large majority of them, do not cause debate here in this House. This is about the publication of the Council of Europe Convention on Cultural Heritage Crime in Nicosia, dated 19 May 2017. Let me say, like Csaba Gyüre, that I myself am a great admirer of the Cyprus cultural heritage. There are not only serious elements of this in Nicosia, but also in Paphos or several settlements in Cyprus. These are universal values that are important to humanity, and are of great importance to European cultural heritage, so perhaps it is not a coincidence that the choice of venue is either for the convention. It has also been said to me that one more state must ratify the convention for its entry into force. I think that Hungary can do this with a good heart, especially given the growing trend of the number of cultural goods illegally removed and carried across borders from archaeological sites. [[15.20]] Even if this is not the problem that we talk about most about here in public life or most of the time, it is definitely a problem that we should all keep important here in Parliament, and if it brings us closer to ratifying this convention to deal with this problem, then let us all accept it. I propose to all my fellow Members that we support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-10-19-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. With a two-minute speaking opportunity... [[There's no signal.]] No one wants to live. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Secretary of State Azbei Tristan, whom I welcome, how he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Azbei Tristan says no.]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We'd like to get back to work. Since the rapporteur would be Mrs Szabó Timea, she is not in the room, so I am ordering a two-minute period of consultation so that my colleagues will know that we can expect her to arrive. If you can hear us, if you're watching us, please come to the Chamber. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[It's a short technical break.]] The secretariat has been informed that Congresswoman is on her way and will be here in two minutes. I hope she'll be here in a few seconds and we can get back to work. In any case, I would like to ask all my fellow Members to understand, and I ask that we wait with dignity for the Member. Thank you very much. [[Break: 15.25 15.31]] (President: István Jakab) Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dr. László Varga)
u2021-10-19-107	Dear Parliament, [[Szabó Timea arrives in the Chamber.]] Our break is over. There will be a general debate on the bill amending the national referendum procedure until closure. Presentation by Szabó Timea, Dialogue, Member T/17004. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-10-19-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill submitted by the Dialogue aims to make it possible not to restrict the power of the President of the Republic in relation to the timing of referendums by law, or to have a forbidden time interval for the possibility of holding a national referendum and parliamentary, European Parliament or municipal elections in parallel. The way to do this is to avoid the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the next passage from the law on the referendum procedure: 67. Paragraph 3 of the Act:. Members of Parliament, members of the European Parliament and members of the general election of local government representatives and mayors shall not be entitled to a national referendum for a period of 41 days before and after that date. If the national referendum cannot be set for this reason, the national referendum shall be set at 131 days after the election. If the Parliament votes in favour of this amendment, the President of the Republic will have the opportunity in principle to hold the referendums either at the same time or on the same day as the parliamentary elections. This would therefore mean, in practice, that we could save taxpayers the cost of one or two national elections. What arguments are in favour of our proposal? One: logistically, it is much easier to hold votes one day than in separate periods. Two: holding votes at the same time is more cost-effective. The last time, together with the campaign and the referendum, more than HUF 16 billion went to the quota referendum. Of this, the operation was HUF 6 billion and the remaining 10 was the cost of the government campaign. If the referendums were held at the same time as the parliamentary elections next spring, the savings of public money could be measured in tens of billions, which could be used for, for example, free Covid testing. Three: simultaneous voting increases participation in references and parliamentary elections, which ultimately increases legitimacy of decisions. There are also a number of foreign examples that referenda are held at the same time as national elections. For example, it is common in the US to hold a dozen local referendums at the same time as Congress and the presidential elections. The Americans are rational, and the referendums do not beat themselves into extra costs, collecting them into a bouquet, they are held every two years on Congressional Election Day, which coincides with the presidential elections every four years. In Switzerland, it is also customary to vote on references in the Cantonese elections. Dear Parliament, We are obviously aware of the government's plans for negotiating this proposal, since we have not been able to see that, over the last 11 years, it is relatively rare that the parties of government support an opposition proposal, especially that it will be included in a series of subjects, and that we can discuss it here in plenary. We know precisely that you want to achieve that the vote on the homophobic referendum issues of Viktor Orbán will take place at the same time as the parliamentary elections, while trying to postpone the referendum on the protection of the future to someplace, the uncertain future. We also understand exactly why this is happening. The spirit and outcome of the opposition pre-election also predict that the Spring Parliamentary Election of 2022 will be a national referendum on the future of Viktor Orbán. A tile vote if you remember what you learned in history class, where the question is that the tyrant must leave power. Everyone knows how the majority will answer this question. You know that, which is why they want to impose on voters another false question, which is really just a small hateful minority, but we want the Hungarian people to have a real choice, and they can decide their own lives, their own futures. Pursuant to Article B (4) of the Fundamental Law, the people exercise their power, exceptionally directly, through their elected representatives. The only thing that is currently realized from this sentence is that, exceptionally, it is translated into Hungarian: almost never. We would now like to give citizens the opportunity to make a decision on real, substantive issues, at the same time as parliamentary elections, as it happens in many parts of the world. There have been many governments in this country, my honourable fellow Members, but certainly not one that would have used the possibility of governance and the majority of the governments behind it to vote on laws that are only capable of attracting honest Hungarian citizens to each other. This is where the Orbán government has come to. We all remember how we sank or rather the governing parties have sunk so far. The government went into a communication deficit because of the insufferable and indefensible Fudan case, and when they began to completely cover up their own lies about the party university to be built for China from Chinese giant loans, they threw homophobia as a rescue idea. Today, we live in a country where laws are born that way, when a government that betrays national interests in a series of ways needs a way, throws a subset of the nation, where the disabled are retired, where the gypsies are, where the sexual minorities are. One lie gives birth to another. What you must be lying about right now is that the future of Hungarian children is threatened by pre-haunting and exclusion information, and it is not, let us say, giving the land and state resources intended for the campus of rural students to the Chinese Communist Party. This new lie is so important to you that a referendum would be held on it in a country where, for example, a referendum cannot be held on the Constitution or on the construction of a nuclear power plant of Russian interest, which is indebted to Hungarian people for generations. But you think it's possible to brand gays, and that tells us a lot about your values and how deeply the party that, thirty years ago, may have been a hope for an entire generation. What Fidesz thinks of the world is now merely the worldview of a very narrow minority, and you will soon experience it. By the way, do you know, honourable government representatives, what a referendum really means? [[15.40]] They can write such beautiful words in the preamble to the law; it is a pity that none of these will ever happen. For example, at the beginning of their referendum law, this was added: it is part of democratic power exercise so that citizens can take part directly in deciding the most important matters affecting the country's fate through a referendum. The same rights are also conferred on the community of local government in the exercise of local public authority. What happens in real life compared to this? They're afraid of real referendums. They've been able to make rules that couldn't possibly hold a real one. Instead, it is possible to wrestle with bald thugs when asking questions and then wander around in their carefully built structure of power, and fight with the elected presidents and members of so-called independent bodies without any consensus for months. There is no real referendum, but instead there is a national consultation and a pro-government signature collection about the need to stop the opposition. And there are also false referendums on the government's false questions, which do not matter how legally invalid they are, because the point is that everyone agrees with Viktor Orbán again. Remember, it is part of the democratic exercise of power that citizens can be directly involved in deciding the most important matters affecting the country's fate by means of a referendum. You have partly made it impossible, partly empty the institution of the referendum. This has eroded the rule of law in the same way as breaking down real brakes and balances. But it is no wonder, of course, because even their Minister of Justice is incomprehensible over or under the concept of the rule of law. Do you know what kind of questions used to be referendums? I'll give you some examples. Should the President of the Republic be elected only after the parliamentary elections? This was a question of the so-called four-yes referendum, perhaps even some of the Fidesz remember it. Do you agree that the Republic of Hungary, by joining NATO, will ensure that the country is protected? Or do you agree that the Republic of Hungary should become a member of the European Union? Do you want me to go further so that the European Union can require the compulsory resettlement of non-Hungarian citizens into Hungary without the consent of the Parliament? Yeah, I'm sorry, that's part of a series of fake questions, and it's the only national referendum in Hungary in the last 11 years under your authority, which you've issued. What does that tell you about NER? It is no coincidence that this referendum has become invalid. There are some important questions, and Gergely Christmas has also offered some that really concern all of us, the future of all of us. Indeed, many people are interested in the country's real issues of fate, because they are included in the referendum questions that Gergely Christmas submitted to the Election Committee. First of all, do you agree that the National Assembly should repeal the 2021 Act on the Fund for the University of Fudan, on the application of assets to the Foundation for the University of Fudan? Do you agree that the maximum duration of the unemployment benefit should be 270 days? I will go further: do you agree that the operation of the Hungarian expressway should not be allowed to an economic company under a concession agreement? Fourth, do you agree that Hungary should join the European Public Prosecutor's Office? Finally, do you agree that any person over the age of 60 who resides in Hungary should be entitled to the SARS-Covid neutralizing antibody detection test free of charge? These questions and answers may determine that Hungary will be a fair country, with respect for its own citizens, looking after the elderly and providing opportunities for future generations, rather than Fidesz succeeding in launching another wave of hatred against our most recently targeted countrymen. No one has ever managed to build a nation with hatred, and you will not succeed, and in the end you will see this. Every time a new group is cut off from the nation when they want to distract attention from one of their villains, they will soon be left alone in this country. Ask those whose children and grandchildren have already been chased away that this direction is good. As is known, two of Gergely Christmas's questions about Fudan University and unemployment benefit were released at first instance by the National Election Committee, but at the last minute it was attacked at the Curia. For the other three issues, the MVB did not give a green light, so Gergely Christmas himself requested a review of the first instance decision. As you know, however, the question of extending the unemployment benefit was granted once in 2011. At the same time, Gregory Christmas also submitted this question. All reasonable arguments therefore support the fact that at least two of Gergely Christmas's five questions will soon become final and the collection of signatures can begin. However, this does not necessarily mean that a referendum can be held within a reasonable time in the Hungarian Orbán version of the rule of law. On 18 December this year, the deadline for the examination of the request for review expires on 18 December. If the judges wish to make use of the time available, this collection of signatures could start sometime in December, for which 120 days are available. We have no doubt that the opposition parties will collect and collect the necessary signatures not in four months, not in 120 days, but in a week or two, because the signatures were extremely effective even at the pre-election recommendation stage, and we saw that more than 850 thousand people voted at the end of the pre-election. If the 200,000 signatures come together, the election office will have to authenticate them. From now on, the fate of the referendum initiative is in your hands, as it depends on the goodwill of the Speaker and the parliamentary majority; of course, the law requires its approval. We hope that if opposition signatures are gathered, László Kövér will fulfill his duty, call the Parliament and approve the referendum as soon as possible. Based on the paper form and your practices of exercising power so far, it is possible that the hatred referendum on the superstitions of the past centuries could be given the green light quickly, but the real referendum on the future of Hungarian people can only be issued after the parliamentary elections in spring. We don't have to deal with the hate referendum, and you'll have to account for it with your own conscience and with your medieval thinking probably horrified by your children and grandchildren. It is our responsibility to give Hungarian citizens the opportunity for a referendum on the future. The electorate will decide which groups of questions are really important. Yes, it is a real risk for you, because not only does homophobia affect the hard core of Fidesz and is interested, but also that this hard core has lost not only its hardness but has also shrunk thoroughly. But the thing is, you guys are gonna have to take that risk right now. They must leave it to the voters to choose to defend hatred or rather the Hungarian future. Otherwise, it turns out that you are cowards and that you want to deprive voters of their democratic rights. If László Kövér or János Áder prevent the referendum against Fudan from being held in time, then be prepared to make the referendum on Fudan in April 2022 itself, because this will be the stake of the election itself if the referendum is not issued separately. Those voting for Viktor Orbán and Fidesz in April 2022 vote that Viktor Orbán will turn Hungary into a Chinese colony. And those who vote for the opposition list vote for Hungary to remain an independent and sovereign state. It is up to you to put out a referendum or to take the risk that the parliamentary election itself will be the referendum on Fudan. Make up your mind and make the right decision. Thank you for listening.
u2021-10-19-109	Dear Parliament, I ask you, on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Azbei Tristan wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-10-19-110	Dear House, Without commenting on the circumscribement of the representatives in the expose, I would like to indicate that the government is in favour of the proposal. [[15.50]]
u2021-10-19-111	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-112	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. I, too, would refrain from commenting on what the author said, especially because his expo really did not deal with the proposal itself, but we could be listening to something else, a true, unfalse hate speech. At the same time, I would simply like to say this within the scope of the exposé, and I think that this is an opportunity, especially if we were obliged to listen to extremely false and false statements that, when it comes to matters of fate, I would like to remind the honourable Member, our fellow Member, to look at the activities of the left in Hungary's history, how she answered the questions of fate; or between 2002 and 2010, the left of that time, largely overlapd with today, how she answered the question of remaining Hungarian, remaining a true person, and remaining the one that we were born in this Carpathian Basin. If you ask yourself this question and really want to give you a real answer, then you will come to the realization that in Hungary what the Gyurcsány Left did between 2002 and 2010 was national destruction itself. When it comes to national questions of fate, his speech, I'm sorry, I can't use a better term, it was very similar, we know from descriptions who learned history, that perhaps it was from Vishinsky that we had the last to hear such speeches, who used this excellent expression in an excellent quotation mark to be the executor of Stalin. To tell you the truth, we see how the genre of prosecution works, which is full of threats. For my part, I have to say all of this in order to reject it. Returning to the bill itself, one of the features of the rule of law is that in Parliament we are talking about the bill, among other things, this is one of the criteria of legality and the rule of law, that we are talking about what is the subject, so I am coming back, and I would actually like to talk about the real purpose of the bill and the initiative itself. The European citizens' initiative and the repeal of Article 67 (3) of the law on the referendum procedure create the possibility, which is extremely important, that a national referendum may be set for the day of the general election of Members of Parliament, Members of the European Parliament and Members of Local Government and Mayors and within 41 days before and after it. The Fidesz Group supports the well-known proposal, due to a number of reasonable reasons, including cost-effectiveness, higher participation rates in votes and more logistically feasible conduct. At the same time, I would like to note that, in order for this to be feasible and consistent with the rule of law within the appropriate legislative framework, further detailed rules are needed, which also justify amending the electoral procedure law, which will be discussed within the framework of the next bill. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor and thank you for listening. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Bellozó withdrew his intention to speak. I now give the floor so that we can keep the order, Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-10-19-114	Mr President, Dear House, You must know that we are always very concerned about the kinds of intentions that require the amendment of the rules of the Fundamental Law to solve current political problems and remedy them. We always say that we always have the basic idea that such changes are necessary and that there is a possibility when there is a substantive debate about them, and especially when we see that some change is being made that is accompanied by political consensus. The good thing is that if, ideally, in a well-functioning rule of law and democracy, the rules of political competition are permanent or, at least, if they are not permanent, they are consensual. Therefore, our relationship with this bill is somewhat contradictory, because on one side we think that, however well-intentioned we see the proposal, it reaches into the constitutional order in a way that otherwise seeks a solution to a current political problem, possibly two, because there are also two referendum initiatives, one pro-government and one opposition side, and both seem to be able to reach the referendum period in the spring around the same period. In other words, it should be considered that you are free to change the rules in this case. However, it should be considered that this proposal could be supported because, on the basis of the speeches so far, there is clearly more or less consensus in this regard. However, if we can agree on something about the rules, it is not worth confronting it for formal reasons. But I would like to raise two points of substance, because it is not so simple that if we agree on it, then it is okay. The rule that we now want to amend is a 30-year rule that has been included in the new constitution of the Republic, essentially with the intention of not hacking parliamentary elections by referendums. Back in the day, the founding fathers had the idea that the parliament would be a congregation of wise ladies and men, which would make decisions with due consideration, restraint and expertise. That is why it was considered a priority, and that is what the rule mentioned by the Member woman is actually about representative democracy, the role of Parliament in expressing democratic public will. However, we have two experiences. One of the experiences is that the quality of Parliament's decisions often leaves something to be desired to put it mildly. Unfortunately, they do not prove it, and here everyone will be able to decide according to their temperament to go back ten, twenty or thirty years, but these past decades do not justify the belief that Parliament will make decisions in its own professionalism and wisdom after a sound debate and good preparation. On the other hand, this kind of knowledge has clearly been built up in voters, in Hungarian, it is clear and clearly visible that the electoral will, which would also like to use the referendum as a means of controlling government and parliamentary politics. I have to say that I think it's an honest, honest and acceptable intention. I see that if we want to draw conclusions from the democratic experience of the past decades, from the fact that a significant group of voters do not feel the means of representation in Parliament, it is a viable, correct and fair way to go forward, so that they are more and more clear instruments for direct democracy. Let us add one more: in the last thirty years, the rules of political debate have changed naturally, as well as the areas of political debate. Thirty years ago, it would have been difficult to conduct a genuine, non-fictive, unimaginative social consultation on an important issue. There is no obstacle to this today, there are instruments for this, of course I am not referring to the fictitious correspondence section, but to the tools that are available primarily online, which allow citizens to express their views freely on various issues without distortion. In other words, the conditions for a referendum and direct participation in society to play a greater role in making decisions today have the technical conditions, much more than thirty years ago, and there is also the need for citizens to do so in a visible and tangible way. [[16.00]] And if that is the case, then it is worth considering reducing the restrictions on the referendum, I would add, not only on these restrictions, but also on more serious restrictions, such as those that do not allow the Fundamental Law to be adopted in a referendum or what? the Fundamental Law, we do not need the Constitution, and when the country has a constitution again, we will adopt it in a referendum, or just the regulation that has decided otherwise to remember, as a result of a very close referendum, just that the President of the Republic cannot be elected directly by citizens. So if we're gonna touch it, it's gonna be worth moving on in this process. Now, it is not worth submitting this amendment to this law as an amendment, because it will be voted down anyway, but when there is constitutionalisation in this country, then it is important to think about how to extend the institution of the referendum, the national referendum and the local referendum. The experience, the lesson of the past decades, is that more opportunities must be given to people to have a direct say in their fate. What about this ban on you? This was intended to prevent hacking and hijacking elections in one direction or another with popular referendum questions. The thing is, we've seen over the last few years, decades, that the government has always been able to come up with some wonderful fictitious story for each election, if there is a referendum, if there is no referendum, I'm afraid that nothing will stand in the way of a stop of any kind of campaign, there'll be everything here, ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Let's stop things from happening. If there is a referendum, there is no referendum. It makes sense, therefore, that, taking into account the Member's arguments regarding the financial conditions of the referendum, in order to make it cheaper, I wanted to say it intricately, but she said it in detail and professionally, but I say it unprofessionally: money can be saved by holding votes and referendums together, it is indeed a practice in many countries, there is a ban in other countries, but it makes sense. I think that either the rules of modern democracy can fit in with the idea that, in this way, the most important questions of an election are either to be thematic or to be thematic. However, there is a basic condition for this, that there really should be a level playing field. And I would like to get an answer from either the government or the Fidesz Members, but at least from Congressman Vejkey from the KDNP, the President, that you would agree to do so as a private person, because I know that the court is independent, they will say this, but as a private person, you agree that there should be a referendum not only on your question, but also on the issue of the opposition, because the answer to this is very, very much about how much you can accept an initiative of this type. It is possible to adopt such an initiative if we see that there is a balance here, at least a limited equal opportunity for the opposition and the government. Dear House, There are therefore arguments in favour of the adoption of the proposal, there are undoubtedly some dangers to this proposal, and we will have to consider the debate in Parliament, any amendments and then, I will add, the next bill on a similar government position so that we can accept the support of the proposal. I must say that this is a difficult and sensitive issue, but we see an opportunity for this to be an opening step for the development of democracy, for the greater weight of direct democracy, and for me to go back to the very beginning, especially if the consensus of the opposition and the ruling parties can create this kind of regulation, then we can support it. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-115	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-116	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what Secretary of State Azbei Tristan has already said by the Government and by my fellow Member István Bajkai in his speech, but I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that T/17004 on the amendment of the national referendum procedure. Bill No.3 on the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the 2013 CCXXXVIII on the referendum procedure. Law 67. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 would be repealed, which, of course, has already been heard several times today as to what it provides. It has not been said that the law also provides that, if the national referendum cannot be set on the basis of the above conflict, the national referendum must be set at 131 days after the election. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now I would like to respond to the presentation by the leader of the Szabó Timea group, who made us hear many political chats and even siren sounds. Obviously, I do not wish to discuss these siren sounds in detail, but I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to what the referendums on which Szabó Timea spoke and what the national referendums on which he did not mention were more important. [[Defiance in the ranks of DK and Dialogue.]] which, in fact, was not considered important here in front of this House by the political leader of the united left. Well, it didn't seem important to mention the first referendum in Hungary, which was the famous referendum in Sopron in 1921, it was amazing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Defiance in the ranks of DK and Dialogue.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of DK and Dialogue.]] He also did not consider it important to mention from the autumn referendum in 1989 that party organisations should withdraw from the workplace, that MSZMP should account for its property or assets in its management, and that this was not considered important by the faction leader. (Development in the lines of DK and Dialogue. ) He also did not consider the referendum on 5 December 2004 important, which was, in fact, about the fact that we know that the non-Hungarian citizen, who is a Hungarian national and who is not resident in Hungary, would be able to prove his nationality by means of a Hungarian passport or other means. The faction leader also missed the referendum issues on 9 March 2008, these referendum issues were initiated by Fidesz and KDNP in the autumn of 2007, there were three questions: do you agree that students studying state-supported higher education should not have to pay a training contribution; do you agree that they will not have to pay a visit fee for general medical care, dental care and outpatient care; do you agree that there will be no hospital allowance from 1 January of the year following the referendum on this issue? Ladies and Gentlemen, You can see that the united left has tended to miss out on these most important referendum questions, but it has left wide scope for... how should I put it? Rather, I would like to say that I would like to criticise the rule of law in Hungary in the form of siren sounds. Here I would just like to point out that the LIBE committee was in Hungary recently, and the fact is that the LIBE committee shouldn't smile, I didn't, because I know they know German, and I want it far from us to think of them that way! There was a French and Spanish member who said it in white and black, but they also came to the Justice Committee that what the President said was that they were here to examine the rule of law because of the procedure under Rule 7 was not true, they said that they did not have a mandate for this. [[16.10]] The French and Spanish members said they were conservatives that they had come because the elections were approaching Hungary and they wanted to put you in a difficult position. We know that there is a rule of law in Hungary, especially during the Orbán government, and we also know what the leading force of the united left did with Hungarians in 2006, we know what kind of cavalry attacks were, and we know that people's eyes were blown out. That wasn't the rule of law. But we know that Hungary has had the rule of law since 2010, and we know that there is freedom of speech and freedom of the press, so we are not asking any questions. What I can tell you is that it would be better to stick to the facts, because the facts are stubborn, and I propose that the presentation of the Head of the Group be considered. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, He also wishes to speak as a lead speaker on behalf of Congressman Bence Tordai, the Group of Dialogue. You have the floor.
u2021-10-19-118	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, As a Green Left Party, Dialogue is committed not only to sustainability and justice, but also to social participation. That is why we consider it important to amend the law that our leader of the Szabó Timea Group has tabled and that is about making it easier to hold referendums. This is particularly important in the present situation when the five-pronged referendum on the protection of the future presented by Gergely Christmas and supported by all opposition forces is being made impossible by Fidesz by all means. This bill was also proposed so that they could not go on indefinitely to hold this referendum, and that people could decide on these high-weight issues, which determine the future of Hungary, the people of Hungary, in different respects, but one by one. Allow me to go through these questions, because these are the questions, these are the issues that the Hungarian public discourse should address, not the stupid, transparent and evil hate campaign that it is also pursuing behind the intention of a referendum initiative against our Hungarian fellow citizens Fidesz. The questions that are truly forward-looking and really about the future are, among other things, the following. The first question presented by Gergely Christmas: you agree that the National Assembly should repeal the LXXXI of 2021 on the asset allocation for the Foundation for the University of Fudan Hungary. Law? This is about Fidesz serving the interests of the Chinese dictatorship party from Chinese credit, but with Hungarian funding, from the Chinese loan paid by Hungarian people, creating a paid international elite on the plots that were originally intended by the government to build the Student City. So the question is that for talented rural students who study in one of the higher education institutions in Budapest, we should create more than 10 thousand dormitory seats and thousands of homes for young families that create their start-up opportunities, or create a Chinese elite university of 540 billion forints of Hungarian public money, where the total tuition would be 15-20 million forints by the time someone can get a diploma there. No Hungarian student would get this opportunity free of charge with a state scholarship. The children of families of the top 1 percent who are rich in the mercy of Fidesz would only be open to this higher education institution, who can pay this tuition fee. The interests of Hungarian young people, the interests of Hungarian higher education and the interests of the Hungarian future are not in any way served. That's what you want to replace Student City. And we would like to see this issue, if you are no longer willing to back down, if you are no longer willing to blow back, if you are coming with all kinds of lies, that we have not yet decided on this, while we have passed a law on the free distribution of wealth, so that the public wealth will be played out again to a foundation for such purposes, and then you will say that at the end of 2022, we will ask people about it. Well, thank you, no, we would like to do it as soon as possible; if we fail by then, we want to decide for ourselves in the elections in April 2022, because we are talking about the fate of more than half a billion forints. The next question that Gergely Christmas has submitted is: do you agree that the maximum duration of payment of the unemployment allowance should be 270 days? This, translated into Hungarian, means that the current record of short job search grants or unemployment benefits for a maximum of three months is to be known to extend, not only the amount of support, but also the duration of the support, especially given that Hungary, where there is a labour shortage on the one hand, but also structural unemployment, and where the average duration of the job search is 14 months, there should not be a maximum duration of three months. The first two questions were passed by the National Election Committee, and they were attacked by all kinds of individuals serving the interests of Fidesz, including János Volner at the Mansion, the Mansion that once passed the question of the referendum of Gergely Christmas in 2011. From now on, it would be very difficult to explain if at least this one question, the question about unemployment benefits, did not get the green light from the Curia, so this referendum will take place at least 20%. This question about unemployment benefits is not only about what kind of support we can expect from the state when we are losing our jobs, but also much deeper, much further away. It is about the work-based society that Viktor Orbán so fondly talks about, in fact, being a forced labour-based society which, in order to ensure a livelihood, requires practically forced work for everyone. So if you lose your job, you will not get the chance to find a job that is fulfilling your qualifications, your talents, your ambitions, your motivation, you will not be able to search until you find a job that will make the most of your benefits for yourself, your family, your environment and the entire Hungarian society, but you will need to accept any low-level work that you can do a lot more than that, otherwise you will receive mandatory public work for a net amount of HUF 56 thousand. This is what you recommend, this forced labour-based society is being built, and to this end the maximum duration of unemployment benefit after 2010 has been reduced. This is a worldwide scandal, and there is no other advanced economy where the duration of the unemployment benefit would be so low. So this is basically about this fight. Your forced labour-based society and our human-centred society represent the struggle of these two visions. Question number three: do you agree that the operation of an expressway in Hungary should not be transferable to an economic company under a concession agreement? What's this about? You want to play the motorways, the entire Hungarian motorway network, for 35 years to be built in the years now and in the coming decades, and in the next decades, about 2,000 kilometers long road network for your friends. This goes against the Hungarian laws, which say that for a period of more than five years such concessions can only be published by reason of sound economic calculations, which prove that it is in the interests of taxpayers, that taxpayers receive the same quality for less money, or that they can obtain a better service for the same money. That's obviously not the case. With this pull, if you manage to do so, you will cause thousands of billions of HUF damage over the next three and a half decades, and with the same amount of money you intend to enrich the fidesz oligarchs. [[16.20]] This is one of the things that all well-spoken voters who have a national interest in Hungary clearly say no to, and we also clearly said no to that. This concession contract will be prevented either through a referendum or through a change of government. If there is a change of government in the spring of 2022, these concession contracts will not enter into force. And this is where we know that they've not only wanted to outsource motorways, they've wanted to outsource waste management, and they've wanted to outsource casinos and practically the entire gambling industry, the most expensive, fattest businesses. This is what you have spent the most of your efforts over the last few months, trying to save as much as possible from the authority of the state, the government at all times, to manage friendly entrepreneurs or independent institutions. Question four: do you agree that Hungary should join the European Public Prosecutor's Office? I don't have to explain this too long. With more than 700 thousand signatures, the Hungarian people supported the initiative to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, like other European countries, in order to ensure that the funds from EU funds are actually used for the purposes for which they were intended. So, in order not to say it in English, the fidesz economic circles are stealing and robbing EU money, and if they do, as they have done all the time over the past eleven and a half years, then this should have consequences. I understand that it is very convenient for you that in Hungary, Péter Polt, the hireler of Fidesz, does not open an investigation into any scandal linked to Fidesz, there has been no prosecution of any crime involving the use of EU funds. In spite of OLAF's virtually completed indictment in the Elios case, with which Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, could have been convicted in the Hungarian court, unfortunately Péter Polt did not manage to transmit this indictment to the courts either. This is why it is necessary to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and it is because sin has no colour, and even after the change of government, there will be skilled people who, either by trying to use their political relations, or simply by relying on their own skill, move on EU funds, the thousands of billions of dollars that should finance the development of the Hungarian economy, the security of Hungarian society, and the guarantee of the green revolution in Hungary. The European Public Prosecutor's Office will strike at these experiments in the same way as all criminal offences related to Fidesz people in the EU should and will be investigated or investigated, and to this end we will join the European Public Prosecutor's Office with the support of Hungarian people, either as a result of the referendum or as a result of the change of government in 2022. And the fifth question is that you agree that every person over the age of 60 who resides in Hungary is entitled to a free-of-charge SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibody detection test. What's this about? It is about the fact that you are responsible for the irresponsible and inexorably ineffective disease management of one of the world's highest epidemic results, in proportion to the population, requiring the lives of one of the highest, all of our 30,000 Hungarian citizens. It's on your conscience, and part of this incredibly irresponsible, scandalously bad disease management is that they've acquired a vaccine that hasn't been tested for people over the age of 60, no one in any scientific institution has said it's as effective as older people. In fact, when we raised the problems in this regard, they lied about trying to label us as anti-vaccinations, opposition collectively, while we were the ones who acted responsibly on this issue. And then what did you find out? That this Chinese vaccine, which you spent 150 billion forints on, and of which several tens of billions of forints were again removed by the pals in the framework of all kinds of opaque businesses, so this Chinese vaccine did not cause any reaction in one-quarters of those over 60 years of age, no antibody production could be detected. And you know that, because otherwise, you wouldn't be rotting in storage for 30 billion forints of vaccine unused, waiting for your warranty to expire, which, by the way, is a pretty amazing waste in such a global epidemic, and otherwise you wouldn't encourage everyone, not so precisely naming the reasons why you should take the third vaccine. So you're gonna have to take this irresponsible thing into your name. We will have you accounted for for for this, and with the will of the people, we will at least correct this deficiency of disease management if you do not do so by then. This is what the questions of the future-protecting referendum are about, and we call for people's support, and this requires the amendment of the law. Thank you very much. [[Szabó Timea and Dr. Ágnes Vadai applaud.]]
u2021-10-19-119	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'm going to ask if someone wants to make a two-minute speech. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Since no one has submitted a written statement in advance, I would like to ask if someone would like to speak within a normal time frame. (No applicants.) I don't see any contact. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2021-10-19-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the basically supportive contributions that, to put it mildly, have succeeded in elaborating. By the way, thank you, Mr Secretary, for at least keeping it short, and for that, it was more coherent than the comments of Fidesz and KDNP, which were more like a stand-up performance. At István Bajkai, I don't know how Stalin and the national issues came here, and in the end, we support the proposal, by the way. Imre Vejkey also spoke of siren sounds. I would like to ensure that this was not intentional on my part, so for God's sake that I wanted to send any siren sounds to my fellow Member Vejkey, my fellow group leader. And I really don't know why I didn't mention the referendum in 1921 in my author's expo, and I really don't know if it's amazing that I didn't say anything about it, or that it's amazing that I didn't say anything about it. Let me respond to only one referendum question you have raised and which I have not mentioned in relation to paying higher education in 2006. It is well known that I had little to do with government before 2010, but let me say that at least that government has asked people whether they want to make higher education pay or not, or that government is not a specific barrier to people voting on it. What you did, however, was to pay for higher education without asking questions and even privatized it. So don't make it look like a credit, my fellow Member. With regard to the LIBE Committee, let me indicate that those French and Spanish, otherwise extreme right-wing Members you mentioned are well-known politicians in one of Le Pen's parties, so to say what they have said are, to say the least, comical. Obviously, we know that the French and Spanish representatives in the LIBE Committee are also the bosom friends of Viktor Orbán. To put it mildly, they are pariahs in other communities of the European Parliament. Let me respond to Bence of Turda, in fact, one of the five questions that Gergely Christmas passed through is the referendum on the University of Fudan. [[16.30]] You said that, of course, a referendum on this could be held sometime at the end of 2022 or 2023, so let the preparations continue. But that's what it's all about, so that they don't spend billions on fake studies and preparation that won't happen afterwards, but ask people whether they want to do it at all or not. By the way, I am sure that there are a majority of Fidesz and KDNP in the ranks of those who do not support the Chinese Communist Party's secret agent-devacate coming to Hungary. I'm sure of it. Well, to put it this way, you can see from their body language how popular this is within the Fidesz line. So we don't have to be fooled. We know that Viktor Orbán came up with this, took care of it with the Chinese Communist Party, asked for something in return in Montenegro, and the Chinese said that we would ask the University of Fudan to come here. You can do business like this, just not when it's 540 billion forints, and it's about the Chinese colonialization of Hungary. We have seen exactly what happens, among other things, in Montenegro, if a state cannot repay the Chinese loan, it will literally become a colony of China. Well, you can't support that. And we also know, let's be honest here, there are few of us between us, that if you at least put out a referendum in time, you can come out of this project without losing your face. Then you don't have to say yes, we've canceled, we've backed out, but you can say that people have made up their minds. You know, we know that you're doing polls that aren't published, which exactly show that Fidesz Voters' camp is not popular with the Fudan University. So you don't have to puppet this, but if you want to puppet it, at least don't spend hundreds of millions and billions on a preparation that won't happen. In addition, we know exactly what we're hearing, that the Chinese have already started to dance back from this, because they can see what social resistance there is about this. Of course, when it costs 540 billion forints for a university built with Chinese workers, Chinese loans and Chinese materials, 450 billion forints of Chinese credit from 540! Just to understand what 450 billion forints are, they have allocated the same amount in the next year's budget to full Hungarian higher education as a piece of the Chinese Communist Party's university. Well, that's not okay. We know that, and you know it's not okay. It is not okay for Hungarian students at a HUF 540 billion university to have a minimum tuition of HUF 2.5 million per year, at a master's level of HUF 3.5 million per year. It is not okay that when the average monthly salary of teachers in Hungarian higher education is 280,000 forints, then here at Fudan University he is a teacher, while teachers or performers in the elite university earn 1 million forints or 1.5 million forints. It's not okay. It is not right that the area that is now the area of Student City will be taken away from the young Hungarians in rural areas and given to the Chinese Communist Party. It's not okay! Gergely Gulyás, Balázs Fürjes and Gergely Karácsony signed a document stating that the area will be a student town and will provide accommodation for ten thousand Hungarian rural students. You can't take that away from them. You can't take it from them for the Chinese Communist Party. So I am pleased that you are in favour of this proposal. We also know that you support this proposal not for the reasons I have listed, but for your homophobic, diversionary referendum initiative. We don't get hurt when the two are at the same time. It doesn't hurt, because we know exactly that nobody cares, because that's stupidity and a nonexistent thing, and that's what millions of people care about, because this reality, it's actually about our future, the future of our children. So I'm glad you're supporting this. I felt a slight split in your speeches that it was difficult to say, as Secretary of State, that we supported, sat down, finished, had to give something more to cover, but it was okay, it would fit into such a debate. But I really ask that, if you support it, no matter what reason, you do not try to prevent the two from being held at the same time by administrative means, the two referendums or even three, if the Curia allows the second question of Gergely Christmas, because, as I said in my speech and expo, the election itself will be about the University of Fudan. So one way or another, people are going to leave, and they're going to vote in addition to not being able to spend 540 billion forints on the Chinese Communist Party's secret agent-leakata in Hungary. This question is no longer about parties, it is not about Fidesz, it is not about Dialogue, it is not about DK, it is not about KDNP. This is about the future of our country and the fate of our children, and I know that you know that, so I am glad that you support this bill, and I ask you that when these questions are written out by László Kövér and János Áder, we should always look at the future of the country and the fate of the country. Thank you.
u2021-10-19-121	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend individual electoral laws until closure. The submission by Mr János Volner, an independent Member, was submitted by Mr T/17265. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, the rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As can be seen on the previous item, a consensus has been reached in the public speech between the governing party and the opposition, both pro-government and opposition representatives have put forward the point of why the institution of the referendum should not be implemented at the same time as the parliamentary elections. The bill that I have tabled and which is now under discussion is aimed at holding a referendum, whether during parliamentary elections, municipal elections or EP elections, and abolishing the extra-minus 41-day deadline so far, and bringing the referendum together with parliamentary elections in a procedure. As has been said here in the debate, the cost of the technical implementation of the referendum costs HUF 6 billion to the budget, which is what it costs the Hungarian taxpayers. Here there are two referendum initiatives running in parallel, the government has a referendum initiative on child protection, and the opposition has another referendum initiative. If we organize these at a separate time, the combined cost of the two will exceed HUF 12 billion. As a responsible country, I can do nothing more than use the opportunity to submit a bill to this House and ask for its adoption, because this way we can save the taxpayers 12 billion forints. I strongly trust him, given that both pro-government and opposition representatives have expressed their support for the bill that the House will adopt this proposal unanimously at the end, everyone will support it, both on the pro-government and on the opposition side. If so, let me, for my part, do so much as a private person to add that I will be very proud that we will succeed in achieving a national consensus that has been very rarely experienced here in this House in recent years. I think it is very important to say, ladies and gentlemen, partly linked to the previous item on the agenda, which concerns the negotiation of the Szabó Timea bill, that I myself have presented a bill which is very similar to the spirit of the bill drawn up by the congresswoman to this House. [[16.40]] So if the co-chair of Gergely Christmas in the Dialogue, Szabó Timea, believes that it is worth holding the referendums at the same time as the parliamentary elections, then why not do so, why not change these electoral rules unanimously, with a common will? In the previous point of debate, there were arguments from fellow Members that this could benefit the government, because the electoral will could be hijacked by a referendum campaign. Well, it is a natural thing, my fellow Members, politics is about the various campaigns being carried out by political forces, and they are trying to deflect the will to vote for themselves. So who is surprised by this and who claims to be a politician, and I am very surprised, because that's how politics works, because everyone tries to run campaigns and manage campaigns. What I am asking of opposition fellow Members is that, if they are offended by this, they should draw up better legislative proposals, those which have a propensity, because I see this lack of impact. The other issue, which I think it would be worth talking about briefly, is not taking up the time of this House, so that left-wing Members are not afraid of the institution of the referendum. [[Gergely Harvesto laughs.]] Let's get to know people's opinions. What I see is that according to Szabó Timea, no one will care about the government's referendum on child protection. Now, ladies and gentlemen, if millions of votes suddenly appear on the ballots, a vote of support that protects the future of our children, then don't be surprised that once again there was a huge mistake on the left. This is a question that people seem to be interested in. I myself, however, months ago, when this House was discussing child protection issues, I committed myself personally to doing everything in my power to ensure that this referendum on child protection is valid and effective, and I said that I would consider what I can do to this effect, and, of course, this instrument to settle this referendum on the day of the elections, and I considered it to be excellent for me to do so. So I ask left-wing Members not to call on their own electoral camp to boycott the institution of the referendum, as it sends out to all Hungarian voters that the left is afraid of this referendum, as a devil of holy water, because he simply knows that the left-wing LGBTQ-friendly position in this referendum on child protection will suffer an devastating defeat when people say an opinion. So I see rather an escape from the left-wing Members in this referendum. I would also like to reassure left-wing colleagues that I, of course, support the fact that the opposition referendum can take place at the same time as the parliamentary elections. I am making a short detour, as in the previous item, colleagues have already mentioned that I attacked the referendum initiative on Fudan Hungary. Yes, I did attack him at the Mansion because I disagree with him, and I find him illegal. I will accept, for my part, the judgment of the Curia, whatever it may be, and I will not dispute it, and I will, of course, consider this binding to myself. To sum up, therefore, the people exercise their will indirectly through us, through Members of Parliament, here in this House, but in important matters we give them the opportunity, through the institution of the referendum, to give a direct opinion on the important and current issues of public life. What the referendum on child protection contains, my fellow Members, is all the issues that are surrounded by domestic and international debates. Domestic debates, as the political opposition on the left is debating these issues, it considers them to be wrong, and international debates are being held because several institutions of the European Union have launched attacks on Hungary on these issues. I do not know a more democratic arrangement for such debates than to ask the Hungarians directly about our opinion on these issues, and then to present this opinion to the politicians in Brussels, and to argue in this way in favour of our own position. Hopefully, the right-wing position will prevail in this referendum, otherwise I am absolutely sure. I know nothing more democratic than to ask people directly and not listen to the extreme liberal LGBTQ lobby, which fertilizes left-wing thinking, and give them all kinds of initiatives and space in Hungarian public speech. So I am asking left-wing fellow Members not to be afraid of this referendum, and we are not afraid of it. We are not afraid of opposition, left-wing issues, and we also support their referendums, of course, at the same time as parliamentary elections. On the whole, I would very much ask that everyone support this and that we adopt this bill unanimously. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-19-123	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Secretary of State Azbei Tristan to speak on behalf of the government. [[Asbej on Tristan's mark:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-10-19-124	Mr President, Dear House, On 12 October 2021, on behalf of Mr János Volner, the T/17265 on the amendment of certain electoral laws was submitted. Bill No. 1. The provisions of the bill tabled by the Member shall ensure the practical and technical conditions for holding the national referendum on the same day as the parliamentary elections and shall lay down further provisions for the smooth conduct of the votes. In view of this, the Government supports the Member's proposal. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-19-125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-126	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill amending certain electoral laws relates to the proposal by Mrs Szabó Timea to amend the national referendum procedure that we have just discussed. In this sense, as we have heard, the restriction that national referendums may not be set for the day of the general election of Members of Parliament, Members of the European Parliament and Members of Local Government and Mayors and within 41 days before and after that would be abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already mentioned in the previous bill, it is necessary to ensure its practical, technical and legal conditions in order for this to take place within an appropriate legal framework. The bill before us aims at this, clarifying which of the two procedures should be applied in such a case, and laying down specific provisions for smooth and orderly operation. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is necessary to amend the electoral procedure law for what has been said. Under the amendment, the concept of a common procedure would be introduced, according to which, if the election or referendum is held on the same day, they should be carried out in one procedure. In this context, rules on joint notification, joint requests and the submission of ballot papers will be drawn up in the joint vote. By amending the law on the initiative of the referendum, on the European citizens' initiative and on the referendum procedure, the rules of the law on electoral procedure that should be applied in the referendum procedure are laid down. The amendment allows for a number of referendum questions to be included on a ballot paper and states that the validity of votes should be examined on a case-by-case basis. In the case of a joint procedure, the time limits for redress for the referendum procedure will also be changed and the time limits under the electoral procedure will be set. The time limit for lodging and assessing an appeal is amended from 5 days to 3 days. Similarly, the deadline for submitting and assessing a constitutional complaint is changing. The rules governing the collection of signatures are supplemented by a ban on the referendum. According to this, no signature shall be collected in a private area open to public traffic without the prior consent of the owner. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As I said in the previous bill, I fully agree with the aim of the bill; I believe that the proposals submitted must be supported both in terms of cost efficiency and in terms of the conduct of elections and referendums, in order to ensure their technical conditions. I would also ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[16.50]]
u2021-10-19-127	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, has applied for a speech.
u2021-10-19-128	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Mr Volner, for submitting this T/17265. I also thank you for your exposé, in which you explained in detail the facts in this regard. Secretary of State Azbej Tristan explained from the government that the government supports this bill, and my fellow Member from Bajkai has already explained in detail in his keynote speech what this bill is about, how this bill relates to T/17004. on the amendment of the Szabó Timea referendum procedure, which we have just discussed during the previous item on the agenda. I do not want to repeat what has already been said, and I can say that the KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill. Support him, too. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, Member of the DK Group, has also applied for a keynote speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-19-130	Thank you very much. We have been very interested in Mr Volner's proposal, who is indeed more pro-government than Fidesz Members, and sometimes we have the impression that he is the government himself, because he has now, in a crucial part, introduced technical rules that could have been brought in by the government, or which could have been passed on to the proposal of Mrs Szabó Timea. After all, some of these rules are indeed technical regulation, it is actually nothing else, it settles the fact that if there is a way to amend the electoral law to this particular joint vote, then how should this be done in concrete terms. We have some suspicions about some specific rules. We see that they are not necessarily moving towards impartiality, but these are not particularly serious differences or serious problems, except for one, the symbolic significance of this is what is very typical. It's the 7th. §, which prohibits, in the case of referendums, the collection of signatures for the referendum in a private area opened before public traffic, such as the parking lot of stores. In many places it is a very obvious and simple way. They simply cannot stand the fact that they do not prevent the opposition from launching referendum initiatives in some way, or anyone other than the government, because it is the right of citizens, not just the right of parties. They can't stand the fact that at least they don't make it a little harder for people who want to collect signatures for a referendum. So what I can say is that this bill is basically problematic because of this paragraph and because of some other paragraphs, it contains basically technical rules. Let me also comment on a brilliant line of thought for the expozee, from which we learned that the opposition parties, who tabled a proposal to facilitate the conduct of the referendum, or one of them tabled this proposal, which the opposition parties supported, are afraid of the referendum, but Mr Volner is not afraid of the opposition referendum, which is why he attacked him at the Curia. Perfect, flawless thought process, not so afraid to try and stop it. I must say, Congressman, that there is no need to overachiever. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-131	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. No prior notice of opposition has been made in writing. I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr János Volner if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-10-19-132	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I will be very brief, as my colleagues in DK responded briefly to this initiative, this bill. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I didn't respond! I won't!]] I ask you not to be afraid that there will be no room for opposition if we exclude them from the use of private areas open to public traffic, that there will be no room to set up opposition polling points or recommendations points. Believe me, Hungary is large enough to be able to set up these opposition polling points in plenty of places, so this will not limit them, I think, in anything that may be substantially linked to the conduct of the referendum. If there is any further intention to amend this, I will, of course, respond to it with a detailed explanation in the detailed debate. Every single point of this bill has been drawn up in consultation with lawyers, and on this basis I will answer on the basis of legal arguments, based on what we have done, what procedural rules, what kind of law appears in this bill. For my part, I see from the experience of the general debate that Parliament will support this amendment. I very much hope that my fellow Members will at the end of the day all of them will press the yes button, which I thank you for in advance. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a resolution on the further participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation will follow. The government referral is H/17271. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First I give the word István Németh... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Szilárd!]] Mr István Németh Szilárd, Minister of State of the Ministry of Defence, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2021-10-19-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In April 2013, Al-Qaeda's Iraqi wing was replaced by an extremist Sunni terrorist organization called the Islamic State, and in a short period of time it took over significant areas in north-west Syria and Iraq. In these occupied territories, the Islamic State has systematically and cruelly committed human rights violations, genocide and other crimes against humanity against members of religious denominations other than Christians and Sunni. The Hungarian Parliament in 2015 on the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation 17/2015. CHAPTER IV In its parliamentary decision of 17 October 2017, he gave his consent to the establishment and deployment of a military contingent by the Hungarian Army in order to facilitate international coalition operations against the Islamic State until 31 December 2017. Since then, the Parliament has extended this contribution to two years, for the first time in 12/2017. CHAPTER VI By decision of 14 October 2019 until 31 December 2019, then by Decision No 49/2019. CHAPTER XII By the end of this year, until 31 December 2021, in a parliamentary decision dated 11 October 2021. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Defence Agency's contribution level is currently 135, this number is significant compared to the partner nations, and our participation is versatile. The activities of the foreign service honvéds shall include the provision of tasks of partnership, military assistance and advice, guardianship and team staff. Hungary intends, of course, to participate in these operations after 31 December 2021 in the event of a parliamentary extension of the mandate, with contributions of the size and composition of the current engagement. [[17.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Although the Islamic State in Iraq and the United States also suffered a total military defeat in Syria on 23 March 2019 and lost its previously occupied territories, the fight against global terrorism remains a key foreign and security policy issue for our country and the international community. Hungary is therefore actively taking part in international crisis management tasks on the basis of its voluntary commitments. By maintaining our participation in the global coalition against Islam, we can actively serve our foreign and security policy objectives to eliminate migration and its root causes, in addition to our contribution to the fight against terrorism. In this respect, we will help to push the migration borders of Europe and Hungary to the east by participating in the mission, if you will. In addition to mitigating the root causes of migration flows affecting Europe, military engagement also serves to protect local Christians. By extending our presence in Iraq, we will preserve and further strengthen the image of our country as a reliable ally among our coalition partners. In view of this, it is appropriate, in line with the transformation of the coalition operation against the Islamic State and the Hungarian engagement in NATO's Iraq mission, to continue the joint fight against the Islamic State in Iraq with a maximum of 200 people in a transition period, with a military quota of 400 people with the necessary technical means, arms and equipment extended until 31 December 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, Why is it necessary, and is it even important, for the Hungarian soldiers to participate in international missions, allies and military operations, even thousands of kilometres from their home country? We can ask the question. The answer is simple: because they also serve Hungary's interests and the safety of Hungarian people. For example, the Hungarian government's position on asylum has long been clear: problems need to be solved at the place where they are created. The population of regions affected by various crises must thrive in their homeland, work in decent conditions, live and do so for the livelihood and growth of their families. It is necessary to eliminate the Islamist groups, the imaginers of the state themselves, who are making huge financial and power gains in the incitement of illegal migration and the export of hand-held terror to Europe. Reducing and even eliminating the causes of migration, creating peace, order and security is an outstanding Hungarian and European interest. The protection of our Christian brothers in the Middle East, the eradication of fanatical religious hatred and aggression against them, the prevention of genocide, and the moral duty of Christian Europe and Hungary to help their lives. The Hungarian Defence Forces also have a moral and training experience, military, military and logistical experience in the missions. Lifelong military friendships are also being made here, so the Honvéds are happy to participate in sharp military operations voluntarily, with multiple over-subscriptions, just as Bálin Balassi sang it at the time. It is also financially worth it, and their salary is multiplied by an average of 2.4 times in Iraq, for example. In all 13 countries of the three continents, where we serve as missionaries, the Hungarian soldier has a good name, a serious honour and international recognition, they enhance not only the reputation and reliability of the Hungarian Defence Forces, but also the reputation and reliability of our country. Dear fellow Members, In addition to considering and discussing the above, I would like to ask you to support the extension of our international mission participation in Iraq until December 31, 2023, the parliamentary resolution proposal on this issue, please vote in favour. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-10-19-135	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-10-19-136	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, According to Article 47 (2) of the Fundamental Law, the National Assembly decides whether the Hungarian Defence Office is to be deployed abroad or to station abroad. Accordingly, we now have a proposal for a decision on the further participation of defence in international action against the Islamic State. Last time I checked, we voted towards the end of 2019 on the extension of our mission to Iraq. At the time, we decided that our soldiers should participate in joint counter-terrorist action by 31 December 2021. Unfortunately, the current situation in the Middle East continues to justify the presence of international troops, including the Hungarian contingent. The current proposal envisages an Iraqi military presence until 31 December 2023. The main tasks are similar to the previous ones: military assistance and advice, protective activities, team escorting. The maximum number of persons remains 200. Our motivation has not changed, and we need to do everything we can to reduce international terrorism, to reduce migratory pressure, and at the same time to help create stability in regions that are unlivable to those living there at the current level of stability and security. It is not irrelevant that, by maintaining our participation in international cooperation, we also signal our reliability to our allies. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support, like Fidesz, the adoption of this proposal for a resolution, and allow us, Mr Secretary of State, honourable Parliament, to wish our soldiers good health and, at the same time, to express our thanks for the excellent performance of the mission. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-137	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-10-19-138	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The substance of the current proposal for a decision is agreed by Jobbik Hungary Movement. I planned to tell you, along the following lines, that we should also base our agreement on the participation of Hungarian soldiers in this mission. It is clear that our country has an obligation, an international obligation, in this case the obligation of the United Nations resolutions to help the otherwise highly unstable region, this part of the Middle East, here, is the eastern part of Iraq, the northwest and Syria, maintaining the stability of this part, and thus creating some stability, the effective nature of the Islamic State's action against the terrorist organization. In this connection, there were even more serious debates along the way, perhaps in 2015, and Jobbik was of the opinion that participation in such a mission might draw the attention of terrorism to Hungary and become a target of terrorism. By the way, at the time we were living at an illegal migration summit, we were faced with a threat to Hungary, or we were able to see it unfold, in which this concern was otherwise justified. Fortunately, it is time that Hungary can be the target of terrorism, but there is a criticism that may continue to exist, and this should be pointed out, regardless of whether we support the proposal for a resolution. This is the effective action within the European Union or within the federal system in terms of effective action against the Islamic State's financial or even its ability to recreate, i.e. to provide reinforcements. [[17.10]] In this, international communities are still lagging behind, although there has recently been a decline in the activity of the Islamic State, but other organisations which can also be accused of terrorism are constantly taking over this activity. In addition to the military presence, it is also in the interests of all of us to have a strong intelligence activity in this region in the presence of the international community, and to take advantage of the combined power of nations, to combat this financial and technical strength and grouping that the Islamic State can exercise. In addition, in addition to our international obligations, I believe that our obligation is also to try to protect a significant number of Christians living in the region in some way. In this, the Hungarian Defence Corps is not fully clear on what activities they can perform, and perhaps in this they need to be more clear about the wallet when giving information to the Defence Committee, but it is certain that they can provide some help to Christian people, and they can also provide their protection. In view of all this, the Christian-Conservative Jobbik can support the Hungarian troops, the military up to four hundred people, but otherwise two hundred people, as well as their deployment and tasks. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In a very short period of time after its establishment, the extremist Sunnite terrorist organization named Islamic State (Islamic State) from the Iraqi wing of Al-Qaeda took over significant areas in the north-west of Syria and Iraq. In these areas, the Islamic State has systematically committed human rights violations and even genocide and other crimes against humanity against Christians and members of other religious denominations than Sunni. Our involvement in this coalition is important, as the Secretary of State has stressed, as it is in the fight against terrorism and in stopping illegal migration, and which is a very important message for the Hungarian government, and it represents help on the ground, as well as our foreign and security policy objectives. With this military engagement, we also play a role in promoting the protection of local Christians, as well as in mitigating the root causes of migration flows that affect Europe. This proposal for a decision is certainly important, and I would like to emphasise in the context of the proposal for a decision that all respect belongs to Hungarian soldiers. I think that their courage throughout the world will enhance our country's reputation. And please, Mr. Secretary, give our message that we are proud of them and that God will take care of them. Thank you very much. KDNP supports the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-19-141	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ágnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-142	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The first sentence is definitely a thank you. We would like to thank all the soldiers serving outside and, of course, the soldiers who serve at home for the work they are doing to protect the country and all Hungarians at the cost of their lives. There may be no debate in this House, if everything else is in it, but there is certainly no debate in this House. When the Government presented the first proposal to Parliament on this mission, the Democratic Coalition was the only opposition party that supported this proposal. We thought and believe today that the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international missions is important in a number of ways. Not only because of what the Secretary of State has said here that there is such a voluntary commitment because I think it is the least, but also because we have responsibility for our common security, and Hungary, as a member of the Western community, is a member of the European Union and NATO, and it is obviously a country which I assume takes the UN Statute seriously, at least the Government takes the UN Statute seriously, it is absolutely natural that it participates in missions of this type. It's no coincidence that we were alone at the time. We thought it was a very important, very good initiative. Today, we also believe that the Hungarian Defence Forces should participate in these international missions. However, when the government submitted the second proposal for a resolution, we could no longer support the proposal for a resolution itself. It is not about participating in the mission, because we still think it is very important today. We couldn't support the fact that in this case, despite all our questions, the government was keeping secrets. Neither at the plenary session of the Parliament, nor at a public or even closed committee meeting, the government was willing to define precisely the tasks of the Hungarian Defence Forces in this mission. What does the resolution proposal say? We are talking about up to two hundred military contingents of four hundred in the transition period, which carry out tasks of partnership building, military assistance and advisory, guardian-guarding and staffing in the territory of the Republic of Iraq. We wanted to clarify, on several occasions, exactly what these tasks mean. For some reason, the government refused to answer these questions at a closed committee meeting. I think it would be very important that I put it this way in these cases: at least in these cases we get a straight answer from the government to our direct questions in committee. They must be so confident in the representatives sitting there, including the pro-government and opposition representatives, that they will tell us what kind of protective or military assistance tasks the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces are carrying out in this mission. With regard to the justification, I would like to make it clear that I understand that there is an ideological direction, which is why we need to talk here about the fact that the Hungarian Defence Forces and obviously the Hungarian Government and the governing parties are protecting Christian communities with this mission. Ladies and Gentlemen, Where there is war, war or civil war, and crimes against humanity, all innocent civilians must be protected; no matter what their gender, faith, glasses or not, what color their hair is. I understand that this line is taking place, and this must be said at all costs, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, in this conflict, as the congresswoman may have mentioned, the most suffering groups, the most suffering groups of women and children. In general, we know that violence against women and children in a conflict is what they try to influence men or soldiers in combat. Not to mention that this is not the first time that sexual violence against women and children is systematically used as a crime against humanity; of course, to break the people who live there. I would therefore like to ask everyone in this House to talk, regardless of religion, gender or origin, about the fact that in a conflict, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces protect everyone, all civilians! Anyone who suffers from war, civil war violence! Because I think that, by the way, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Service are doing this. But this proposal, and generally related to it, how should I put it? propaganda texts are always about protecting Christians here. No, fellow Members. In such conflicts, and regardless of this proposal for a resolution, and in all conflicts, we have experienced this, and this, by the way, when the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces were in Afghanistan or even in the Balkans, that the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces were not chosen on the basis of your ideology. They protected every civilian they had to protect. And I would like to emphasise this to you again and again, because they are taking a very dangerous path, if the Hungarian Defence Office, which, I repeat, does not work the way you say it here in Parliament, is trying to drive it on such a dangerous path. Soldiers swear to protect innocent people. [[17.20]] When we send these people, women and men to such missions, they do not investigate whether the people to protect are Christians. They're looking at, quite rightly, the need to protect these people, and I think that's extremely important. It is important to protect local Christians; it is important to protect those who do not have religion; it is very important to protect women who suffer from such conflicts or even children. I hope that, at the meeting of the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee, this issue will come up and we will get answers to these questions. And I'd like to predict that I'm sure you'll find that I didn't attend a committee meeting last week. I did not really attend a committee meeting, as there was a pre-election campaign, but, as I have seen, the members of the committee, especially the chairman of the committee, were more concerned with examining my Facebook page than listening to the Minister's production report. However, neither the minutes of the public committee meeting nor the closed committee meeting revealed the specific tasks of the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces in this and other missions. We learned what tasks they had done, by the way, from a conflict when the defense wallet invited all of us to the ministry on my request, and then they presented the problem there. My fellow Members, you often say that the protection of the country is a national matter. It's hard to accept, and obviously I don't accept that we're being excluded from our home country by those who don't believe in your ideology, but there are a lot of us in this country who don't think the way you and we are part of the country. We really believe that these questions can be discussed. Nor do we prove, once more, that it was perhaps the party most critical to you, most opposed to you, that this DK was the first to support this proposal. And we supported it precisely because, not because of what the three of us have said, but because we believe that Hungary has a responsibility in these matters, it has a responsibility, this kind of missionary activity is indeed an opportunity to move forward for the members of the Hungarian Defence Office. But the next time you have extended this mission two years later, you have increased the number of people, increased the area and completed the task, and you still refuse to discuss them in a closed committee meeting. I think it would be important to have a normal, honest conversation on such matters at least. The Group of the Democratic Coalition therefore awaits a meeting of the Commission where the authorities of the Ministry will give a detailed description of what military assistance and advice, partnership building, team escorting or guarding are, in particular, in order to support this resolution proposal. Otherwise, if you keep secrets, if you try to hide reality, if you think this is your exclusive right, it will be very difficult to support the resolution proposal, while I would like to emphasise once again the mission tasks we agree with. It's possible, I'm uncertain, but obviously they can decide that within the government, but I remember that when the first submission was submitted and which we were able to support, it wasn't the responsibility of the defense wallet that appeared there, but for some reason the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Minister Peter Szijjártó sat there, and he understood exactly what we were talking about in this case. So it is possible that in this case, the defence wallet should be asked for diplomatic assistance from the foreign minister's wallet so that such a committee meeting can come together. I would like to conclude by expressing my hope that you will understand that these issues should be discussed jointly. We accept and acknowledge that it is perfectly natural that there are things only people who can hear and listen to who have national security control, and I think that is okay. But you must understand that we cannot vote for a mission that we know nothing about, and that the duration of this mission will be extended considerably until 31 December 2023, after the expected change of government. I would therefore propose that, on the one hand, the date be changed and, on the other hand, such a committee meeting be held, President Lajos Kósa can quite certainly agree with you, and we can quickly bring this committee meeting together for the week, but definitely for next week, and we can talk about these issues. Finally, I would like to thank the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces once again for the superhuman work they have done in various international missions that have been carried out at home. We will never forget it, and we are extremely grateful for what they have done, for what they have done to protect our country and all of us in it. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-143	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP Group.
u2021-10-19-144	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I'll be brief. In response to my colleague, it is important to talk not only about persecuted Christians in the Middle East, but also about all religious minorities, since in 2013 Christians and other religious communities are the priority targets of ISIL from the Islamic State in the Middle East and the world. So those vulnerable communities who are involved in humanitarian aid in international organisations must always be stressed, we see that helping Christians and other religious minorities play a huge role in ensuring peace and stability. So, in this respect and in the relevance of this, we must definitely talk, because, from the security policy aspects of the Middle East, if we look at these issues in a deeper way, we cannot miss the religious communities that are particularly vulnerable by the Sunnite terrorist organisation. That's why the two are closely linked. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-145	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ágnes Vadai, DK Group, who has also applied for a two-minute speech.
u2021-10-19-146	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have been head of the Humanitarian Rights Committee of the Interparlamental Union for three years, and we have dealt with this issue quite a lot. I think that you are right, and I did not dispute that there are obviously religious minorities against whom the Islamic State acts brutally. I don't think I even questioned that. But you forget that in such a conflict, crimes against humanity are not committed solely on religious grounds. That is why I would like to stress that in any such conflict, of course, there are serious atrocities against different minorities, which I very much hope will end in an international criminal court for the perpetrators and will be a long, long-term prison. But let us not forget that sexual and other violence against women and children is, unfortunately, the type of warfare that Hungarian soldiers are fighting. One. Two. I warned ourselves, but especially you, that the Hungarian Army, where soldiers are trained to protect everyone who is a victim, is trying to push them in this direction. The task of Hungarian soldiers is not to protect certain religious, sexual or any minority, it is their job to take care of everyone who is the real or expected victim of this conflict. So, I think the difference between our thinking is that I am also protecting someone who is not necessarily a Christian, and you emphasized or the proposal for a resolution emphasized that it is the atrocities against Christian minorities that make it necessary for the Hungarian Defence Office to act and go on a mission. [[17 .30]] I do not dispute that this is also the task of the Hungarian Defence Service, but this is not its sole task. I think soldiers should be given very clear guidance. By the way, soldiers, as I have experienced, do not choose from who is a Christian, who is a woman, who is a man, who is a blonde, who is a brunette, who is a red, who has glasses. They protect everyone and look after everyone they suspect and see as a victim of violence, and I think that's okay. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-147	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. In a normal time frame, I'd like to ask if someone would like to tell me. (No one's reporting.) There's also no sign of anyone. The general debate is therefore closed. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister if he would like to respond to what he has said in the debate. [[István Szilárd Németh: Briefly, Mr President.]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2021-10-19-148	Thank you very much. With all due respect, on behalf of the Hungarian soldiers and the government involved in the mission, I would like to thank you for the support speeches and the good wishes that the leaders of Fidesz and KDNP would like to convey to the defence through me. I will, of course, comply with that. Ágnes Vadai, lead speaker of the Gyurcsány Party, was quite simply shocked with many things, his comment was deceitful, eye-turning, but mostly uncredited. Why was it uncredited? He claims to be the former political secretary of state of the Ministry of Defence, who has already been told that he has checked in with his boss as Secretary of Defense that he does not know that the outside service soldiers who are stationed and perform their duties in Erbíl, what partner capacity building means, he claims that he does not know what military assistance and advice is, the guard-guarding task and the team escort task. I don't think that's true. But it's connected that he wants someone to open this for him. There are some pretty good studies, and they're also available on the Internet, and I understand you may even be familiar with military science, so I just can't imagine it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: In fact! Unlike you, I can read!]] But Ágnes Vadai also claims that he will never receive any information in the Parliament or in the Parliamentary commission, in the Defence and Police Committee. You have to go there and get it! So I think you didn't attend the previous committee meeting. At this committee's meeting, the Minister stood in the open and closed session for eight hours, answering every question that arises, every little question about any mission. In connection with the Hungarian Defence Office's domestic life, the development, the Zrínyi program and everything, he answered everything, because the questioners no longer pushed him, but accepted his answer. If the Member, who regularly submits written questions, says that she will not receive the answer, it would be a big problem because the Minister of Defence has a duty to answer the question which has been submitted to her, which is to be answered within a certain period of time. The Minister, Minister Tibor Benkő, has always done so, and you will have the answers to your questions there. The third great proof of lack of credibility is that it talks about the need to support the foreign engagement of the military and its participation in missions in any way. But with all due respect, you weren't involved in the discussion of Operation TAKUBA. So you checked in, but then you didn't come to the debate, and you didn't give your own opinion or your party's opinion here. Today, the Parliament passed two fundamental laws, but without your vote in favour, they abstained in these votes. So I don't know how to support the military's participation in missions. The fourth observation: I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you do not hate Christians so much, do not be so Christian-hating, because it spoils one's insight and the kind of attitude that you have shown here in a few sentences. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Those are tough words from an ex-SZDSZ!]] I'm gonna have to turn that down. Thank you again. I would ask everyone to support this parliamentary motion for a resolution. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-19-149	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic amending the Agreement between the Government of Hungary on the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of road border bridges and border sections at the common state border, signed on 14 September 2017 in Budapest General discussion of the draft law on the publication of an amendment until closure. Government referral T/17273. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László György, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-10-19-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 7 October 2021, the Hungarian and Slovak ministries signed the first amendment to the Agreement on the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of road border bridges and border sections at the common state border, signed in 2017. It is necessary to publish this at the legal level, which is what the bill before you serves. The original agreement signed in 2017 settled the conditions for the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of cross-border bridges and parallel border roads for which the cooperation of the authorities of the two countries is particularly necessary. Smaller operating and maintenance tasks for border bridges jointly owned by both parties are easier if one country takes full control of the bridge, while another bridge of the same size is maintained entirely by the other country. The operation of cross-border roads can also be made easier if they are supervised by a country whose machinery makes it easier to reach them from its territory. So far, this agreement has provided for a common way of maintaining 26 border bridges and border crossings. Since the signing of the agreement, the Hungarian and Slovak governments have concluded an international contract for the construction of three new border bridges, the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of which should be provided for. This is the purpose of Supplement 1: to transfer changes to the text of the original agreement. Dear Parliament, According to the convention amendment, the Hungarian party will operate and maintain the planned Ipoly Bridge between Drégelypalánk and Ipolyhídvég, and the Slovak party will undertake to operate and maintain the Ipoly Bridge between Dunakiliti and Doborgaz, as well as the Ipoly Bridge between the Őrhalom and Ipolyvarbo. The reconstruction of bridges, if necessary later, will be ensured jointly by the parties. Dear Parliament, There is a visible need to improve the infrastructure of the border region between Hungary and Slovakia, to increase the number of crossings, not only because of our EU and Schengen obligations, but also from an economic, social and national policy perspective. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill and, with this amendment, the publication of Amendment 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-19-151	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán is not staying, we hope he will arrive and will comment later. I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-10-19-152	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! It is very clear and the old, unbroken position of the popularist, conservative Jobbik, that he supports all such initiatives, not only in view of the fact that our Hungarian compatriots live in settlements that are affected by the border crossing, but also in view of cross-border economic relations and of the large number of commuters in this area, it is very important that such bridges be established. [[17.40]] The maintenance, operation and maintenance of these must be properly addressed by our Slovak neighbours, so I think it is clear to me that it is in the interests of Hungary and of our countrymen, who live outside the truncated country, that it is also in Hungary's interest to provide for them in this way, even if these are significant financial commitments. We are all happy to do this, and Jobbik has always been happy to support such cases, and will continue to support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-154	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Secretary of State presented the bill in detail. This was an agreement in 2017. The 2017 Agreement settled the conditions for the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of works of art, bridges and roads crossing and parallel borders for which the cooperation of the authorities of the two countries is particularly necessary. Smaller operating and maintenance tasks for border bridges jointly owned by both parties are easier if one party takes full control of the bridge and another bridge of similar size is maintained entirely by the other party. Similarly, the operation of cross-border roads can be made easier if it is supervised by the party which can easily access the route from its own territory with its machinery. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the signature of the 2017 agreement, the Hungarian and Slovak governments have concluded agreements on the construction of several new bridges, as the Secretary of State has also said, which should also be provided for the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of these bridges. There is an increasing need to improve the infrastructure of the border region between Hungary and Slovakia and to increase the number of crossings. Given that both Slovakia and Hungary are members of the European Union and the Schengen Convention, KDNP therefore supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-155	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-10-19-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP fraction is interested in having as many bridges as possible between Slovakia and Hungary in the strict and figurative sense of the word, and obviously, if you look at the strict meaning of the word, you have to choose the easiest way to operate these bridges and crossings, as Hajnalka Juhász said before me, so an agreement can be concluded on the operation of one of them, obviously which is easier to approach, easier to operate, and other bridges, if any. We consider the agreement to be reasonable and forward-looking in this sense, and I think that no Member of Parliament should have a problem with it, but I can say that the MSZP fraction is not at all, so on behalf of our faction, we can provide the Secretary of State with support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-10-19-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must apologize immediately for the delay, but because of Christmas Budapest, I didn't come by car, but by tram, but it doesn't travel from Elizabeth Bridge, so I came on foot from there. So I'm sorry I'm late, but it was a good sport. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is an update of the 2017 agreement, we can say. The original agreement was published on November 13, 17th. At that time the Parliament adopted without a vote against the international treaty between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of road bridges and border sections at the common state border. This was about simplifying the management of border bridges and border sections between our countries. The parties agreed at the time that it would be easier to carry out smaller operational and maintenance tasks for border bridges jointly owned by both parties if one party took full control of the bridge, while another bridge of similar size would be maintained entirely by the other party. Similarly, the operation of cross-border roads can be made easier if they are supervised by the party whose machinery makes it easier to approach that route. The present amendment already identifies specific tasks and accordingly divides the Ipoly and Danube bridges that are to be built in the near future. The Hungarian party will take responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the bridge between Drégelypalánk and Ipolyhídvég, while at the same time the operation and maintenance of the Ipoly Bridge between Dunakiliti and Doborgaz will be an obligation of the Slovak party. There is a great need to ensure the rapid and undisturbed possibility of crossing between our countries. We hope that the number of these crossing points will increase in the future. I trust we will have to discuss a number of additions to the original agreement. The Fidesz Group supports the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one made a two-minute speech, no one indicated their intention to speak in writing. I'd like to ask you if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr László György, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[László György: No, thank you.]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is XCIX 2021 on emergency transitional arrangements. General debate on the draft law on the entry into force of law until closure. The government referral is T/17279. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István György, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-10-19-160	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In the summer of 2021, the Parliament adopted XCIX of 2021 on emergency transitional arrangements. Law No.1, the so-called "executive law." This law was necessary because 27/2021 on the announcement of an emergency and the entry into force of emergency measures. In the event of termination of an emergency pursuant to Government Decree No 53 (4) of the Fundamental Law, the Government's decree under Article 53 (2) of the Fundamental Law shall be repealed with effect from the end of the emergency. The requirement for legal certainty required that the emergency situation under this Government Decree be terminated and that emergency government regulations should not be repealed without appropriate transitional provisions being laid down. The purpose of the establishment of the implementing law was therefore to ensure that, in the subject matter covered by emergency legislation, the Parliament regulates the legal relations and expectations established at the time of the emergency in order to ensure that the regulatory transition is clearly and predictablely ensured, subject to the requirement of protection of trust, and that the change in the regulatory environment is guaranteed by law. The National Assembly subsequently authorised the Government to extend the scope of the Emergency Government Regulations pursuant to Article 53 ( 1) and ( 2) of the Fundamental Law subject to Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law by Act I of 2021 on the control of a coronal virus epidemic. Dear Parliament, As has already been recognised at international level, including by WHO, Hungary is fighting the coronal virus epidemic with one of Hungary's most effective vaccination programmes in European and world comparison. [[17.50]] However, the new variants are spreading across Europe, the delta variant bringing the fourth wave of the epidemic is already present in Hungary, therefore increased protection is still essential. The basic goal of the government is to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people, to reduce economic damage, to preserve jobs, which require rapid and effective decision-making. That is why, according to the Parliament's decision, the CII of 2021 amending Act I on the control of the coronal virus epidemic entered into force on 30 September 2021. Act on the Government's further authorisation to extend the scope of the Emergency Government Regulations until 31 December 2021. This also has an impact on the rules contained in the implementing law, as they enter into force on the day of the termination of the emergency under the provisions of the law. Dear House, The Government considered that, in order to strengthen the predictable regulatory environment, the provisions of the implementing law should be put into effect, irrespective of the extension of the emergency situation, as a rule, on 1 December 2021. The legal arrangement should be interpreted as bringing the Parliament to a regulatory level by this date the standard content contained in certain emergency government regulations in force, while at the same time deregulation of the relevant emergency government regulations. At the same time, we must also take into account that the transitional rules contained in the implementing law have been drawn up with the possibility of an earlier entry into force, so we had to review all the provisions of the law in this respect. In some cases, the requirements of certain provisions of the implementing law have already been met because of time lag, perhaps the deadlines laid down therein have passed, so there is no possibility of putting these rules into effect as unchanged ones, or, for these reasons, their entry into force is no longer justified. In addition, the implementing law includes regulations the applicability of which is logically inseparable from the duration of the emergency and therefore the scope of these provisions should continue to be linked to the termination of the emergency. These include infringement procedures initiated on the basis of emergency specific offences or administrative procedures initiated on the basis of emergency specific administrative situations which may be carried out under regulation at the level of the regulation and therefore the transitional provision should not be put into effect. In the same way, further emergency government regulations announced since the adoption of the implementing act were required to examine the provisions, but they could only affect the amendment of the implementing law by transferring dates, deadlines and directly related coherence issues, according to the legislator's intention. The introduction of new emergency regulations announced after the adoption of the discharge law and the introduction of the provisions of the implementing law that will not be put into effect now will be governed by a separate discharge law. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has already been said, the bill before us therefore proposes the following in relation to the provisions of the implementing law. Most of the provisions of the law are put into effect without amendment before the emergency is resolved, some provisions are not put into effect and some provisions are put into effect with an amended date. The partial entry into force of the implementing law should therefore be implemented, subject to the need for legal certainty and a predictable regulatory environment, in order to reduce the parliamentary regulation of the subjects covered by Article 27/2021. It shall be implemented in the event of an emergency situation under Government Decree No 1. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support and accept the bill on the basis of what has been said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I personally believe that in these times of trial it is essential to ensure the widest possible national cooperation and social solidarity. It has now become clear that it is the joint task of all of us to prevent, slow down the spread of the corona virus and to support the fight against infection, to protect human health and to restart the Hungarian economy. Responsible decisions must be taken by the Parliament and the government in times of crisis. The new variants of the coronal virus spread with unprecedented speed and consequences across Europe. For this reason, I welcome the fact that the Government has turned to Parliament again, because it has declared an extraordinary legal order and has asked for its extension from the Hungarian Parliament until 1 January 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, It should be pointed out that we managed to manage the epidemic well because the country has joined forces. Of course, we needed excellent professionals, and we needed the discipline of our citizens. Now the country is in such a better position that we are more prepared for both infrastructure and experience, and there is a vaccine. And if everyone adheres to the rules, then together we will be able to stop the spread of the pandemic in Hungary again and start the economy again. Our common goal is to put the plague behind us as soon as possible. Our chances are good, which is why it is very important that we continue to maintain discipline. We have a sufficient amount of vaccine available. Vaccinations are all effective and safe, the main means of control against the epidemic. In Hungary, less than 1 percent of people who are vaccinated are sick, so it is important that those who have not done so are asked for vaccination. I would also like to emphasise in this place the sentence that vaccination works, and Hungary works. We should thank the heroes of health care, doctors, nurses and all the staff, paramedics, as well as general practitioners and colleagues, who have been under a huge burden all along. Thank you to those working in social care and social institutions, teachers, police officers, public administration and trade workers for their exemplary position. Thank you to all those who bravely and faithfully exercise their vocation in behalf of the people during an epidemic. Thank you to all citizens for the discipline and patience they have shown over the past period, and we ask everyone for more endurance and a little more patience. Another great joint effort is needed to finally defeat the coronal virus by the sufficient number of vaccinations and to put the sad and tragic period of the epidemic behind us for good. I take this opportunity to express my deepest condolences to the victims of the plague. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Dear House, In view of the legal certainty and the legal requirements of the predictable regulatory environment, we have a bill before us on temporary emergency rules. At the dates laid down in this bill, this bill intends to bring about an end. It should be noted, however, that it also provides for the non-compliance of certain provisions envisaged, as there will be a separate law on these rules for the transition. Mr Secretary of State has already said this before me, so I would not go into detail, but simply that, in principle, on 1 December, he will determine the entry into force. There will be legal provisions which will not enter into force and some, exceptionally, will enter into force on 1 January 2022. [[18.00]] I would also like to add that the legislative proposal is very correct in resolving the necessary amendments and corrections. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group supports the proposal submitted. I would ask all my fellow Members, regardless of party standing, to also support them with their vote. Now, in the fight against the epidemic, let us exceptionally put aside political considerations. This may seem naive to me, but as they say, hope lasts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-163	Thank you. With great respect to my fellow Members, I also give the floor to László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-164	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There have been a number of legislative steps to be taken in relation to the long-term extension of the emergency that Parliament has faced. In recent weeks, we have discussed the authority of the government and how long the emergency can be extended. In view of all of this, it has become apparent that an extension of the deadline for previous legislation or amendments to certain legislation will be justified. In several places, the legislation itself addresses the order and list of the different dates, i.e. the dates in force, which concern different areas; on the one hand, there is a financial facilitation or financial facilitation for some consumers, of course, there is a time limit adjustment that is necessary by nature and there are some that are still relatively difficult to agree with. I would like to highlight one of these issues which, I believe, have suffered, in recent times, more than ever, the damage that the government has done and has done during the extension of the emergency and during the governance of the regulation. This is a question of local governments. It is clear from the current legislation that there will be a disproportionate and unnecessary extension of the fee ban that I do not say to the municipalities that they have been forced to do, but that they have been proposed and accepted by the government and Parliament, because it has been found that the municipalities cannot increase their fees in view of the epidemic. This was, of course, justified at the first stage of the epidemic, when the country had to face closure and economic performance was clearly and appreciably severely reduced, as it could be expected, in order to protect consumers, that the municipalities would in some ways have to take part in the burden-sharing as far as possible. However, a large part of the municipalities were in a difficult financial situation due to the transfer of resources or channelling elsewhere, so if they did not need the increase in fees, but in some way a fair reimbursement would have been necessary. It seems that it is not possible to know how long the fourth wave will last or how long the next emergency will last, but the bill suggests that local authorities should not have the opportunity to make such an important financial decision by the summer of 2022. I am not in favour of the fact that the municipalities must make the lives of people or the lives of businesses more difficult by raising their fees, but we are all aware, and in particular my fellow Members, who otherwise have a relationship with local government and local government, that, when planning municipal revenues, planning with them and any future increase, this is an important foothold for municipal farming, and it is important for the financial backgrounds with which they perform public tasks, whether in the social sphere or in terms of the basic tasks of the local government, whether in the field of health or in any other field. Well, the loss of the possibility of raising these charges, thus reducing the planning capacity, will all result in a narrowing of the space on the part of the municipalities, which I believe is more difficult to cope with. It is very important to protect consumers and people from the impact of possible closures or difficulties affecting certain market sectors caused by a coronal virus epidemic, but it is also our shared responsibility to provide local authorities with a farm that provides them with predictability in which they have access to the right resources, since they do a lot of public tasks instead of the state, but also with their own funds, and they represent the state on the ground, as well as the social power and public authority of all of us. Thus, with the cuts and, in my view, unreasonable and disproportionate deadlines with which the government intends to add additional burden to the municipalities, we do not agree, and we call to the attention of the Secretary of State here on behalf of the Government, to interpret them to the Ministry, and to a much fairer, much fairer and more proportionate approach than setting these deadlines, rather than pouring them into concrete by 30 June and tying the hands of the municipalities. Local governments need significantly more room for manoeuvre and significantly more opportunities. In addition, let me say that all these narrow and unfavorable rules for the municipalities will be resolved by the next government, which will replace you, and will give the municipalities the opportunity that they can manage fairly, even though in the majority of the municipalities there are Fidesz Members and Fidesz mayors, who are equally indemnified by your regulations, they and their municipalities need an opportunity. We believe that through facilitations and assistance, local governments are treated as partners in the countryside Hungary can advance much further. Jobbik, as a rural conservative and rural party, believes that these municipalities should not be bound, but more help, rather than cement what is a lost opportunity for them, but give them the opportunity to develop. However, holding ourselves to the fact that we have not given the mandate for an emergency, Viktor Orbán fell in love with regulation governance on the one hand and, on the other hand, we see that he is steering the country from an emergency to an emergency, and we cannot be partners, Jobbik does not want to vote for this amendment. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-165	Thank you. I now give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-10-19-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The new variations of the coronal virus spread with unprecedented speed and consequences across Europe, in view of which the Parliament decided to extend the scope of the Law on the protection of the Crown Virus pandemic until 1 January 2022, so that the emergency situation under the Government Decree on the announcement of an emergency and the entry into force of emergency measures has not yet been lifted. In view of the need for legal certainty and a predictable regulatory environment, it has become necessary to review all provisions of the Emergency Temporary Rules Act, i.e. the Exit Act, and to settle their entry into force as follows. The provision concerned by the bill cannot be put into effect or put into effect without amendment, nor can it be put into effect, but minimum over-modifications must be made in a separate, new emergency government decree or a given provision can be put into effect with a modified date. In principle, the provisions of the implementing act shall enter into force on 1 December 2021. The entry into force, independent of the duration of the emergency, strengthens the environment for predictable regulation. The provisions of the implementing law which enter into force with a modified deadline concern, inter alia, self-employed compensatory aid, certain transitional rules concerning legal persons, clarification of the provisions concerning the different application of the bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings law, and the rules on a moratorium on repayment of loans, since, where the discharge act still states that the payment delay runs until 30 September 2021, this was extended to 30 June 2022 on the basis of decisions taken since the adoption of the discharge law. It also covers provisions relating to local tax facilitations and tax facilitations. Important bill, supported by KDNP. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-10-19-167	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Varga, the notary of the Parliament, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor. [[18.10]]
u2021-10-19-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join my fellow Members who first spoke in the voice of thanks: thank you to all those who have helped to protect against the coronal virus epidemic in this country over the past year and a half. It has been a very difficult year and a half, and I think that, without the victimless work of health workers in the social sphere, although I could say many more spheres, obviously we would not have been able to continue this defence so effectively in this country. However, the government's work is no longer covered by this, so to speak, by public appreciation in this regard. There have been many different periods in this, and while, let's say, health workers are respected, respected and accepted by practically an entire country, the government's proposals and proposals have been made in advance by the opposition, but we also said that from now on, if the opportunity is yours for everything, then the responsibility is yours. In our view, and I consider that Jobbik's representative, my fellow Member, László Lukács, has also referred to this, which has been abused by the government in a number of areas. It may be said that in this proposal, which represents text-exchange amendments at 42 points, obviously primarily on time issues, with deadlines, there are a lot of things, of course, that are important for facilitating the lives of citizens, but I will not be able to go as an example in two areas, that the government has clearly used the emergency as a legal institution to play certain political battles. The question of local governments was very well said here, on which, although this package of laws contains only shorter provisions, we see a process. I've talked about this a lot here at the National Assembly. At the time of the emergency, the government reduced the revenues of the municipalities, so that governments saw the municipalities as a defensive player working in the front line of defense elsewhere, let's say, further west of us. There they supported the municipalities, where appropriate they received additional resources, but this was not the case in Hungary. Just think of taking away the car tax, eliminating public support for public transport, which, for example, affected Miskolc very dramatically, here, 500 million was taken from MVK Zrt. So it was felt in the emergency, and the schedule was clear, and the Miskolcs were dissatisfied with the flight density that could be secured. There is one solution: you have to give back the state aid, and then buses and trams can be more frequent in Miskolc. But taking away part of the business tax is obviously also a huge loss, which was only partially compensated for by more cities than 25,000 inhabitants. In addition, starting from parking revenues, I could also bring other questions in a situation where the revenues of municipalities were reduced by default, for example, on rents, and other services were, of course, less used by residents, so the municipalities were already in a difficult situation. At least as a Member, my confidence has vanished in the fact that the government will use the emergency only on issues directly related to defence. The other issue, which has been carefully raised by many, is certain purchases in relation to defence, which were also overpriced and very large in volume, and which were not related to life or rationality in this sense. This could be seen in a number of cases involving the purchase of medical devices, for example, the number of ventilators has been criticised several times by several opposition players. They acquired not all the necessary technical ventilators in such a vast quantity that the handling personnel were obviously not available. They say, if so, but it is very clear from the number of health professionals and from the statements of experts who know how to do so, that unfortunately, only a fraction of the equipment you have acquired can be managed by appropriate personnel in Hungary. Here comes a number of provisions on the legal possibility of free transfer, which is obviously also a kind of possibility for you to engage in politics with foreign partners across borders. At the same time, I am telling you that there have also been a lot of questions raised in the public opinion regarding purchases, and that you have not answered the questions properly. Although they could do so, we have been waiting for these answers for months! By the way, if we look at, say, only the surrounding countries, I say that there are some of them, whose governments have defended themselves more effectively, but otherwise they have not chosen this continuous extension, while in our case the emergency as a legal arrangement has been ongoing for almost a year and is constantly being extended. So there are other ways to do this, too, and other countries have also proved this. Indeed, the extension was not supported by our faction either at the autumn session. This is because of the lack of confidence, obviously, I will no longer describe it; it is clear, I believe, that there is a difference of viewpoint between the opposition and the ruling parties. There were times when this was different, but, among other things, because of the reasons I mentioned it, it changed. So, since neither the connection to the original proposal nor the original agreement was reached in support of the implementing legislation, I can say that, of course, the faction will vote against this proposal in this way as well. This does not mean that otherwise we do not recognise the work of those who have worked very hard in the last year and a half to make it easier for Hungarian citizens and the people living here, Hungary, to be affected by this epidemic in general. Obviously, their sacrifice is recognized, due respect to them. We also know that we can see that, of course, many decisions had to be made or could be taken in the government decree in the context of the emergency, which was necessary for the defence, yet there have been countless decisions that have led to the opposition losing confidence, and these questions have not been answered on your part since then. One word, like a hundred: we cannot support the proposal in this form. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-10-19-169	Thank you, Mr. Notary. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wasn't planning on commenting in late hours, but our fellow Member László Lukács gave me his discussion on the municipalities, and I would like to reply to that, although unfortunately he is not here now. Indeed, I was the mayor, so I understood exactly the situation. I would reassure the fellow Members that there were indeed a withdrawal of business tax and other withdrawals in the municipalities, but, as the notary noted, they received a very serious compensation from the State. Obviously, in a situation like this, when the economy relapses, especially during the first period when jobs are virtually closed, the economy did not work, people's revenue decreased, generally all kinds of tax revenues decreased, a common burden is needed. We simply had to pull the belt together, if you will, and everyone, the state, the farming organisations and unfortunately the families, felt it. The municipalities couldn't stay out of this. But here, my fellow Member was talking about fees increases. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: Not me!]] Okay, I'm just saying, that's what I'm reacting to. He talked about increases in fees, said that it should be stopped immediately, so that the municipalities can raise the various fees and taxes, and then, if the government led by the opposition comes, he will do so. [[18.20]] Now, that's what we're saying, that's exactly what we're saying, and that's exactly what the opposition is up to: tax increases, fees increases, different faces and a reduction in various subsidies. So here's the answer to that: Stop Gyurcsány! Stop Marqui-Zay! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, What you said here, notary, was that other countries, for example, handled things much better and did not sustain an emergency. [[Towards Hajnalka Juhász:]] Let me say, however, that we were in Strasbourg with the woman here the other day at the Council of Europe, so we must wear masks everywhere, there are restricts everywhere, there are rules everywhere, there are special emergency provisions everywhere. The same is true in Austria, Vienna, and now you have to wear a mask on the street. Not for now, but we don't know what's coming. And even though this emergency is still in place, only what is necessary is effective: vaccination, vaccination, vaccination is what would really help. Mr. Note said that they did not vote for this emergency. When the first was made here, perhaps in March 2020, in March 2020, the opposition said that everyone as one person would be happy to vote for it, because it is needed, but it does not have an expiry date, and therefore it does not. The next one had an expiration date, so they didn't vote for something else. [[Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] They didn't vote! The socialists may have voted in favour, but not in the opposition as a whole. There's always a small excuse for not, and we all know that, unfortunately, we still need it. I really hope society understands that vaccination is the only way that can help us, and vaccination is the only thing that can protect us, our economy, our communities, our children's future, so please do the same. I'm glad you're in on this now. I'd like to go to various discussions here on procurement. There is only one thought: In March 2020 we heard nothing else in this room except that there are not enough ventilators, there are not enough hospital beds, the health system will collapse. We can see how there's enough ventilator. Maybe it's a lot, that's the better thing, if there's more ventilator than there's ever gonna be in a world pandemic that no one knew at the beginning what it was gonna look like. I think that this is the better case, and it is not that we should have seen pictures in Hungary that we have seen from Italy, the United States or Romania today. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2021-10-19-171	Thank you. I now give the floor for two minutes to László Varga, representative of the MSZP, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am really trying to empathize with this question, because really the first few weeks we've been together, in fact, we didn't really know what we were dealing with, and what scale of the pandemic we're dealing with. They responded very quickly, with drastic closures around the world, and if we look back on the first wave, we really do not see the numbers that we are unfortunately seeing today, so obviously we did not know exactly what the situation was. I understand that. However, I do not know how much to learn to live with. Obviously, it may never really be, but public life, politics, professionals, has more information about what we are dealing with. From our point of view, it might also mean that we can judge, say, the budget of a local government or the central budget that is burdened by this particular situation. I say that we should definitely make a fairer burden-sharing between the chapters within the central budget in this regard. So what I see is that the municipalities have been very seriously, very hard-corely affected by your austerity policy in this regard, as a percentage of free resources, because they often refer to the very few percentages that have been affected, yes, but this is a very drastic number compared to free-to-use sources, but at the same time, for example, there has been a partly external, partly internal, tax-policy-related inflationary pressure, which can be seen in particular in terms of fuel prices or basic food. So what I'm saying is that if the state thinks that it is necessary to give up some revenue to everyone during a period like this, then the tax content of fuels must be reduced, and otherwise basic foodstuffs must be classified without exception in a VAT rate of 5%. So it would be, I think, fairer sharing of burdens. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-10-19-173	Thank you. I also give the floor to László György Lukács, the representative of Jobbik, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to say, in the spirit of historical credibility, why who didn't vote for a mandate. At the first mandate, it was quite obvious that it was wrong and wrong for the government to say that he would not make a fixed time when he could say that he could handle the crisis. Of course, many things were unknown to us in the event of an emergency, but it was also apparent that if the country defends itself vigorously and disciplinedly, it would be possible to combat the epidemic within a reasonable period of time, as we did with regard to the first wave. Thank you very much for all those involved in this. At the second, it was clear that the government had done everything it could to rule, not to use its power, but to abuse it. They kept doing the rules that were not otherwise defence-related and the business that I believe moved Hungary forward rather than further. And if we look at the third, we also need to see, fellow Members, that Hungary was in the same position as Romania now in the third wave. There was a difference because you said that we didn't see pictures of Hungary: we didn't see them because at this time no one from the media was allowed into the Hungarian hospitals, so that they could provide very important information about the defence. If people in Hungary had seen what was going on in the hospital, not because the hospital is doing its job badly, but because we are facing such a challenge, the defense may have changed; the vaccination numbers may change. This may be what will bring us in Romania, that the vaccine will start, and many more will be vaccinated. So to say that when Hungary was world leader in death per million people and we are talking about weeks here, which was a tragedy, and we lost 30,000 people in the pandemic, more than 30,000 of our compatriots, to tell the government why we don't give the government permission, it's a minimum face toaster. And we won't give it to you because when this happens in Hungary, Miklós Kásler stands up and says, cheerfully, sitting in one of the ministerial velvet chairs, that we are not shaken. We've lost 30,000 of our compatriots, and we're not shaken! ? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The government did not defend itself fairly; Viktor Orbán from an emergency to an emergency [[The president's ringing again.]] He ruled the country. That's why you don't have the authority. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-10-19-175	I also give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, for a two-minute comment.
u2021-10-19-176	Thank you. I do not wish to polemise here for a long time, unless my fellow Member has already spoken about historical loyalty, so it is a situation such as that which was in Romania or Italy earlier today, and it has not been in Hungary. And it wasn't because we didn't know about it, and the media couldn't have gone to the hospital. At the beginning of the century, when people are running around with smartphones and putting on different videos and sending photos, this is simply a completely untrue story. To be honest, I do not know which of our opposition colleagues posted photos on Facebook of the Ukrainian hospital that the hospital looks like this in Hungary. This has turned into a huge scandal! So we shouldn't be creating this not-so-meaning rumor or this bad mood right now, because here, health care really did amazingly well, so did the people, but health care itself in its entirety, at a very, very difficult time, and we couldn't see what would happen in March. You couldn't see it! And I don't know, I think you said that Viktor Orbán led the country from crisis to crisis, didn't you? [[Dr. László György Lukács: Yes.]] In a world crisis. I know that Viktor Orbán has great power, but let us not assume that he has brought the whole world from one wave to another this is a medical emergency! I think that the government has handled this well: Hungary has started again exemplary, the economy is out; the kind of bounce that everyone in Europe would have liked to have done in our country seems to have done so. [[18.30]] So what I'm asking you to do right now is to talk about what we're gonna say and send you the message that we're gonna get shots, vaccinations, vaccinations, and then we're gonna get through this. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-177	Thank you. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. István György's signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-10-19-178	Thank you very much. Here in the Polemia, much has been said about pro and versus, I do not want to respond to everything, because here the opinions have been expressed, it would be no different if I said my own position. Of course, this can also be seen as the position of the government, but I think that there would be many beginnings and ends of the debate that it would generate, if not now, at the end of this debate. Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán for what he has said. I would like to add his thanks to healthcare providers, while he pointed out that there was a need for a broad country-wide cooperation in defence here, and it is also necessary today, which is in fact unprecedented in recent decades in Hungary. What the administration, the defense committees, the national vaccination teams had to do, the government agencies had to go through this period, it was really unprecedented. The administration has done such a huge logistics task that the II. Since World War II, such country-wide organisation of services for the population of the country has not had to be carried out since then. I think that all of our thanks to those involved in this should be those healthcare providers who were the tips of the arrow and those who created the conditions in which this organizational work ensured that appropriate measures could be taken to ensure that a country was grafted and that, in the absence of the vaccine, appropriate measures were taken. So this was an unprecedented cooperation in Hungary and today. I sincerely hope that this will continue until we can put this Covid-19 epidemic behind us. Unfortunately, as many people have said, there is great uncertainty in this, because we cannot say exactly when we can fight the Covid epidemic. Of course, we have experience of old epidemics, pandemics, that they will surely be among us for about three to four years, but it is unpredictable how this will be done. I would add that the grafting rate of the population over the age of 12 in Hungary today is 69-70 percent. Obviously, in each country, we reach the glass ceiling at different times, which can be achieved on the basis of the cultural and other arrangements of the given society, but obviously all our efforts are, and we are continuing to continue to increase the graft rate, because it is the only instrument, as many people have said, that we can defend ourselves against the epidemic. Congressman László György Lukács complained about government measures against local governments. I would just like to say that the municipality is the elected body of the population of a settlement, and the measures protected the population of the municipalities. The government must decide in this case whether to protect the population or to protect certain institutional systems. It is obvious that we must protect the health, life and existence of people here in the first place. It is clear, of course, that the role of the municipalities is also very important, as I must also point out that municipalities have been exemplary in many cases, for example, in the vaccination bus programme. My hat is off to those mayors who have been very effective in organizing work, but overall, the measures have served to create an economic protection fund in Hungary that creates the financial conditions for the control of the epidemic. So if you have to choose here, I have to say that the government is on the side of the population here, who, by the way, choose a local government for themselves. And, as Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán said, small settlements have been compensated, the larger settlements have also received compensation in the coming time, but it is not the first task to deal with them, because we are not over the epidemic. We are in the upper part of the fourth wave in Hungary today, so it is not a question here that we must focus on the issues that ensure the continuation of normal life in Hungary. All the measures that the government has taken can be judged to be faulty, but I am convinced that one of Europe's most successful defences has been carried out, because it does not matter at all that the government is able to measure in a surgical manner the protection of human life, in addition to the priority of health, the measures that are able to start the economy at the moment when this is possible, and this has happened in Hungary. It is no coincidence that the third quarter of GDP growth, which envied us all over Europe, is also affecting the existence of families, since those who have jobs, who have earnings, can live without having everyday problems, and, as I said, obviously, while protecting people's lives and health, it is also important to protect their existence. Notary László Varga is no longer in the room, he is also... [[Dr. László Varga: I'm here!]] I'm sorry. He's up there. My apologies, Mr. Notary. So I would like to thank you specifically for the style of your contribution, at least, with which you started, thank you for the past year and a half and for your effective defence. Obviously, this was primarily for health care, which we have seen in various Facebook entries in the posts of opposition leaders who have been vaccinated, who have said that the spades-pakk went all, they were fantastically kind, they were quick, they were clever, they were received by them, but the government was outrageous. Of course, that's what the opposition has to say, but this defence was controlled by the government, Mr. notary, by the operational tribe, and also by the territorial administration, because the entire logistics was behind it. So this was the result of a complex collaboration that lasted from government to general doctor. This defence, which we have implemented in Hungary, has produced good results through an unprecedented cooperation. Obviously, what the government has used the possibility of regulation governance for is something we will never agree on. It is quite obvious that if there is no sufficient room for manoeuvre for a government to respond effectively to events, then we need to look around Europe to see what results this will bring in individual countries: political instability, failure of governments, failure of ministers, and stopping life for weeks on different issues. I think that the mandate that the government asked for and received here was nothing more than to be able to do the control of the epidemic in a sufficiently effective way. And indeed, Zsolt Csenger-Zalán answered the question that came up here, I do not see exactly who raised it, László Varga or Congressman György Lukács, the lack of ventilators. Practically at the time we saw the pictures in Italy, and we heard that the doctor had to decide which person he was putting on a ventilator depending on his condition, the government had to decide in this situation whether or not to buy respirators. There are 66,000 hospital beds in Hungary, and the number of ventilators purchased is in no way excessive. During my operation, I supervised the defense committees at the time when a significant part of the hospital beds had to be qualified for ventilation, since not only intensive care units, but other liberated hospital beds had to be carried to the conditions of ventilation, it was not possible to know at the time of the need for ventilation in Hungary. [[18.40]] Let the first stone cast on the government who would have made a different decision in this situation. The emergency is practically not over. There will be no emergency extension now, otherwise, but only the provisions of an exit law will be put into effect by the government, the provisions that help regulate the behaviour of various social groups in certain situations during an epidemic, and all the measures that make people's lives more bearable during the epidemic will be strengthened. The extension of the bank credit moratorium was also mentioned here on the part of the Member, but the need to avoid increasing the burden has certainly forced the government to virtually not allow fees increases, going back to this once again. So you see the local authorities as being impossible on this issue, and we see that the burden of the population under Covid should not increase in the same way as the bank's credit moratorium has served to ensure that the burden of the population does not increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-19-179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the introduction of the Data Change Management Service and the amendment of certain laws relating to the reduction of the administrative burden on citizens until closure. The government referral is T/17277. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr István György, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor again.
u2021-10-19-180	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government has committed itself to implementing measures to facilitate the lives of citizens and to promote the work of law enforcement authorities, and we have also made a number of laws aimed at simplifying administrative procedures in recent years. This line also includes the bill before us, which seeks to review and simplify the current practice of public utility transcription. Experience has shown that there is little connection between public administration and market service providers, data exchanges and data transfers are essentially negligible. The change in data is therefore not currently clearly channeled into utilities and other market telecommunications operators. This is a problem for customers, because it is not clear what channels customers are required to make changes, given that the way in which they are notified differs from one public utility provider to another. Customers everywhere need to find out what to report and how to report, which will lead them to physical customer services, as well as notification obligations, administration to the parties at customer reception times, typically during working hours. Difficult administration of data changes also causes problems for utility operators and other market participants. In the absence of up-to-date data, the quality of communication between the parties and the possibility of regular contacts are significantly impaired. Service providers are forced to receive requests in parallel with multiple channels, maintaining loaded customer service capacities, which entail high costs for them, and the service providers' records are not updated, thus increasing the number of wrong, poorly coordinated cases, resulting in a decrease in customer satisfaction. In Hungary, customers live in an opaque web of about ten service contracts, including water, gas, electricity, waste, mobile, Internet service, bank, housing and motor vehicle liability insurance, and they are hardly expected to keep all their public utility telecommunications contracts in mind or to report changes in data with the most frequent 15-day deadline required by the contracts. In my view, this requirement poses a serious challenge even for prepared and law-abiding citizens, even if a service provider now offers an electronic interface targeted at reporting changes or public utility transcriptions. This problem is caused by a wide range of service areas, as well as customary administration and case management practices. Dear Parliament, On this basis, there is a strong and fully viable social need for a one-stop-shop data change management service, which was decided by the government in autumn 2020. The purpose of the data change management service, which we call NEK, is to inform in a credible electronic form, depending on the customer's consent, public utilities, telecommunications service providers that are in a contractual relationship with the natural person concerned and, in relation to the various situations of life of citizens, moving, placing into service, hiring, death, necessary public utility transcription processes, the State provides a credible and one-stop-shop electronic administration service with which it achieves significant administrative burden reduction on both the customer and service provider side. The two service legs of the AVSZ are the change notification and the utility transcription service, which we imagine in practice as follows. The AVSZ is a public service to personal customers included in the personal data and address register, which allows for a one-stop-shop notification of the change of the client's name and/or residence data to public utility and telecommunication service providers on the basis of the client's mandate. The notification may be made by the client personally with the assistance of the government window administrator or by electronic administration. The AVSZ performs the reporting orders in a phased manner, e.g. once every 24 hours, at night, towards the systems of external service providers connected to the AVSZ. Fresh and credible changes come to the connected service providers through a secure delivery service. The other leg of the service is the reporting of user change. The use of the service is typically linked to life-related events related to property ownership, property ownership and use, such as property purchase, rental, inheritance, gifting, property sharing. A change in the user's personality can be reported in the same way in person in a government window or by electronic administration on the AVSZ's own surface. Notifications for user change shall be sent by the AVSZ to all service providers by means of a secure delivery service. The draft contracts may then be drawn up, validated and sent to customers by the service providers. With regard to the expected social and economic impact of the AVSZ, it is important to take into account that, compared to the number of administrative authority cases, customers still have at least twice as many cases with different service providers, i.e. any measure affecting this area, reducing administrative burdens, has a significant social and economic impact and can be expected to be welcomed by citizens. According to preliminary calculations, all change management cases per year, with around 10.4 million cases being automated, can be reduced by about 8-10 percent of the administrative burden associated with everyday administration. Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XXI 1st century requires the creation of an efficient, fast service administration. To this end, this bill, the introduction of the AVSZ, will contribute to reducing administrative burdens and increasing the competitiveness of our country. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. I'd be honored to thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[18.50]]
u2021-10-19-181	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to pay tribute to Mrs Holman Magdolna, Vice-President of the State Audit Office, who indicated that she wished to live in the House Rule 36. The right to speak as provided for in paragraph 11 of Section 1. I give the floor to the Vice-President in a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-182	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the general discussion of the bill on the introduction of the data change management service and the amendment of certain laws relating to the reduction of the administrative burden on citizens, I wished to speak because the SAO carried out several analyses along the objectives set out in the bill, and we considered it justified to report on its experience to the legislation. We believe that these experiences can be used well in the context of this general debate. On the subject of the bill, we can think of the following terms: digitalisation, e-administration, digital state, which the State Audit Office has dealt with and deals with on several occasions. Overall, our experience has shown that digital development can have significant positive consequences. I would like to highlight an example. In the analysis entitled "The use of digital tools in taxation', the analysts of the State Audit Office concluded that digital development in the field of taxation in recent years has been effective in increasing the willingness to pay taxes in online cash registers, EKÁER and online account systems. The tax revenue of the central budget has almost doubled, VAT revenue has doubled and the share of VAT has decreased. The measures put in place have led to an additional revenue of HUF 1400 billion in the budget over the period considered, as well as a simplification of the tax system, a reduction in administration and an improvement in the efficiency of tax controls. In addition, the important impact of economic whitening measures is to increase transparency, establish fair market conditions and reduce the risk of corruption. In terms of both international and domestic experience, it can be concluded that the introduction of digital tools in the tax system improves the efficiency of collecting tax revenues. It is therefore clear that digital development in the area of taxation has a wide range of positive consequences. I would also like to highlight one of our audit topics, which is included in the audit plan of the State Audit Office, and this is an audit of the measures taken to develop the digital state, which is currently being implemented. The purpose of the audit is to assess that the measures implemented to build a digital state have effectively contributed to the achievement of the objectives set out in the infocommunication strategies. We also appreciate that digital public services and e-administration have been effective in supporting the public and businesses in dealing with matters, contributing to improving their quality of life. Dear House, The SAO is of the opinion that unnecessary processes should be cut down in the context of bureaucracy reduction. Digitalisation contributes to this, as digitalisation is accompanied by a necessary review of processes, which also provides an opportunity to identify and modernise these processes. This could also increase the efficiency of the operation of the State, especially in the case of public services that citizens face every day. I can quote the Fundamental Law of which XXVI. It states that the State seeks to implement new technical solutions and the results of science in order to improve the efficiency of its operation, improve the quality of public services, improve transparency in public matters and promote equal opportunities. The bill has an impact on the application of this principle. 17/2021. In addition to the audit and analysis tasks of the State Audit Office, the Parliament supports the strengthening of its advisory role in order to improve the public financial situation, the performance of public tasks and the strengthening of public confidence in order to facilitate the functioning of the well-managed state. From this perspective, it is clear from the bill that the introduction of the data change management service will increase citizens' satisfaction, the confidence of society in the functioning of the state. This is particularly true in the present pandemic context, since the introduction of this service significantly reduces the number of personal contacts compared to the current practice of utility transcription. Let us not forget even a positive benefit: citizens were able to deal with these cases typically during working hours, which may have resulted in unjustified job losses, which could have caused inconvenience both on the employer's and the employee's side and perhaps the best expression. Consider the complications of accounting for working time or the later replacement of lost working time. This should not arise if the transcription processes are automatic. Dear Parliament, People generally want to spend as little time as possible on administrative and public administration tasks. Compliance with this objective can also be supported by the State through a means of digitalisation. In recent years, the state has made progress in a number of areas with a digital development, just think of developments in tax returns, as I mentioned earlier. At the same time, the efficiency of administration can be further increased by shortening the administrative time or by creating flexible administration opportunities. On this basis, the possibility of setting up or further developing service points where full administration, including public services, is possible, and citizens receive direct, smooth support. It is important that citizens have equal opportunities to do so, regardless of their place of residence and digital knowledge. Digitalisation can therefore make life easier for citizens as a whole, thus increasing social satisfaction and citizens' confidence in the functioning of the state. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-10-19-183	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2021-10-19-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Madam Vice President! In recent years, the government has initiated a number of measures to facilitate the administrative administration of citizens and simplify administrative procedures. In addition to simplifying procedures, this concept also includes the bill, which aims to reduce the bureaucratic burden on citizens as a result of the reporting of data changes, as a result of the revision of the current rules on utility transcription. Ladies and gentlemen, The important innovation of the legislative proposal on the House's table is the data change management service, and, as the Secretary of State has already said, the creation of the AVSZ, which creates the possibility of simple processing of changes in the data of natural persons, and the electronicisation and simplification of the utility transcription process. According to the amendments envisaged in the bill, the basic concepts of the AVSZ are laid down in the law on government offices in the capital and county, as well as amendments to the laws relating to the establishment of government offices in the capital and county and to territorial integration. I consider it important to note that the law defines which service providers can join the AVSZ and which natural persons can use it as customers. The law on the metropolitan and county government offices is a new 1. According to point 3 of Article 3 of the Act, we must refer to an electronic communications service provider, a district heating service provider, a power service provider and a water utility service provider that has been contracted to the AVSZ. [[19.00]] The AVSZ may be used as a client by natural persons having a storage space for the use of an electronic identification service which is required by the government and for the related secure delivery service, after registration, in which case they may determine which service providers they are in contractual relations with. It is also very forward-looking that the data processing service provider, the AVSZ, shall keep a record of events related to its IT system and its records in order to avoid data loss, and that it shall keep a single core data register in order to identify the client and ensure the legality of the processing by means of the AVSZ. In compliance with the constitutional requirements of the legislation, the necessary provisions for data processing will also be laid down in law. The legislator refers only to the precise recording of the detailed rules, the rights and obligations of the data subjects and the content of the relationship with the SAO. The AVSZ itself is therefore a data transfer service provided between customers and connected service providers, within which two types of services must be distinguished. During the data change reporting service, the customer may initiate the transmission of its changed data via the AVSZ to the service providers in a government window or electronically. Within the framework of the other user change reporting service, the customer may also provide in the government window or by electronic means permission for the data change management service provider to notify the utility service provider of any changes in the user's identity and of the necessary data. Dear Parliament, As the Secretary of State said in his exposé, the aim of the bill before us is to make the lives of citizens easier in administrative matters and to make the process of administration smoother and faster. The priority is also to ensure that the public's comfort services provided by the government are known and used by as wide a range of citizens as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, the proposed bill is supported by the Fidesz Group. I'm asking you to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-10-19-185	Thank you. I give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-10-19-186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Secretary of State and my fellow Member presented this bill in great detail. I think that this data change management service is a anticipated presentation. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and colleagues. I think that these proposals serve a very, very serious social need. Digitalisation means increasing competitiveness and reducing bureaucracy at the same time. As has been said, the current practice of utility transcription has been reviewed, and this bill practically creates the electronicisation and simplification of the utility transcription process. I think that this is a very serious step forward and it creates an opportunity that is an excellent response to a real reduction in bureaucracy. Congratulations once again on the bill, and the KDNP will support it. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-10-19-187	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga, head speaker and notary of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I myself believe that everything has been said, partly in the State Secretary's Expoze and partly in the subsequent comments, about the content of the presentation. So I don't wish to be lost in this. We will support any steps that will result in a reduction of the administrative burden on citizens. At the same time, I would like to look at the concrete situation in two respects, because it is not the first time that we are talking about similar issues before this House. In fact, the administrative burden, at all, the processing issues, the provision of certain personal data, is approached by citizens in two ways, and they say it either in reception hours or in street meetings with politicians. One of the questions is obviously that it bothers them if something has to be given several times in several places, and it does not run through properly. I am thinking about the first time I heard about this, long before my public career, that several governments had already intended to settle this issue, so that we would not have to keep giving the same data to citizens in different places, even to the state several times. It hasn't really worked out perfectly in the past few years. So we know there's always room for improvement. We hope that this proposal will bring us closer to our goal, and then we do not need to keep providing data to citizens, things that have already been delivered to the right place. The AVS can be a solution in this, and I think that this can also be a step forward in the field of public utility services. So I'm definitely happy for this part. The other thing that citizens usually say is that it's a bit of a barrier to the proposal, obviously it's when someone gets their hands on, say, some kind of data that doesn't want it to fall into their hands. I am sure that my fellow Members have met with this, that someone has called me, and how did they know my number, I have received a letter from them, how they knew my address. I don't want to get lost in this right now, because it's another part of life, which is obviously more about the proper legal protection of these types of databases. Here, the conditions for data processing have been stated earlier, that they will be regulated primarily at the level of a government regulation. So we're not seeing exactly this situation right now. In this context, the safe processing of personal data and its central availability can be a source of danger, and I would like to put this on the table here. I can now say it on behalf of the MSZP, but I think that the other opposition parties will also be like this, that we would like to support this proposal, and I hope that for this type of concern, if they arise in public life, or if they receive it as a question, either during the Commission hearing or later until the final vote, they can be answered properly, because we would like to be in a position to support this proposal at the end. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-10-19-189	Thank you, Mr. Notary. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Félix Farkas, a Roma minority advocate. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2021-10-19-190	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary amended certain laws relating to the introduction of the data change management service and the reduction of the administrative burden on citizens T/17277. I therefore welcome it, and thank the House Committee for the declaration of the bill as a nationality item. The Committee put the bill on the agenda at its meeting on 18 October 2021, held the debate on the proposal and formulated the opinion of the Committee; by 13 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against, the Committee unanimously decided to hold a detailed debate on the bill in accordance with Rule 32 of the House Rules. § 2 of the bill as a whole. [[19.10]] The bill we are discussing now amends fourteen laws for double consideration. On the one hand, it intends to extend the scope of electronic services and to offer comfort services to customers in various official procedures, and on the other hand it provides a solution to the undesirable phenomenon that the State does not know, to the extent necessary, the residence and/or residence of citizens, although, for administrative reasons, to some extent, but no longer, is necessary and justified. The pandemic has also taught our senior citizens who do not use the Internet every day to use a certain level of electronic service. However, the method used by hundreds of general practitioners today to upload prescriptions of medicines to be prescribed regularly to patients in the electronic health service space has not only helped desirable separation in the first wave of the pandemic, but has grown into extremely convenient and ever since used and best practice. But I could also mention the example that, in the course of a change of address of a head official or member of a company, there is no need to initiate a separate change notification procedure, but that the court will automatically transfer such changes to the register of companies, making the day-to-day operation of the companies more comfortable. I merely note that this also generates a significant cost reduction for companies, since neither a lawyer's fee nor a fee nor a publication fee is payable in the event of a change of address. The 1991 XLI on notaries is therefore to be welcomed. The law also allows for the use by a customer of certain data processing services when a statement of rights on which a real estate registration is based is incorporated in a notary document. LXXVIII of 2017 on legal activity is amended to the same analogy. Law, too. It also intends to provide for the legitimate statutory possibility of using the information provided by the customer in accordance with Act I of 2010 on the Registration Procedure 11. Amendment of §2 of the Act and XXXVIII of 2010 on the probate procedure Law 92/A In addition to the provisions of Section 5 of the Act, it is also necessary to provide for an extension of the provisions of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure. Nationalities living in Hungary have often had problems in the course of a real estate registration, registration or succession procedure, as administrators have had trouble putting the letters, letters and fonts of several nationalities in our country into the system. However, we can now say that by using the data processing service, on the one hand, the problem of ordering customers will be eliminated and, on the other hand, we will no longer have to fight close to the authorities in order to ensure that the names that may sound foreign, whether Greek or Serbian, or Bulgarian, are correctly recorded separately in each official register. I have just mentioned that the amendment will be submitted on a two-fold basis. The LXVI of 2003 on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses helps to get to know the place of residence and residence on the basis of practical criteria. an amendment to the Act which has just been submitted. This is particularly important, for example, for natural persons living in our country as a nationality, perhaps as a dual citizen, sometimes living in a border settlement, where so far contacts with official bodies have encountered difficulties due to the definition of residence or residence in force today. This is what the amendment to the law that we are discussing is a solution to this. The government fully recognised the need to make improvements in the transfer of data from different life situations, which is why 1795/2020 decided. Government Resolution No.3 on the introduction of the data change management service. Form XX of 1996 on identification methods replacing the personal identification mark and the use of identification codes The current amendment of Law 1 is intended to ensure compliance with this when the personal data and address registration body also assigns certain data to the data change management service provider as part of its regular reporting obligations. In addition to data protection and data security guarantees and the reduction of administrative burden, natural persons may therefore be notified of changes in their name, address and document identification data held in public registers by providers who are in contractual relationship with the natural person concerned. CXXVI of 2010 on the amendment of the law on the metropolitan and county government offices and the establishment of the metropolitan and county government offices and territorial integration. The amendment to the Act currently under discussion raises the definition of the data change reporting service and its closely related concepts and the conditions for using the service. On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I welcome the innovation that district heating service providers, electricity dealers, natural gas dealers and universal service providers, as well as water utility providers, are obliged to accept and manage the user's notification of changes in user data from 1 December 2021 and from 1 January 2022. I have just mentioned that the names of people belonging to domestic nationalities, their mother's name, place of birth and the rest are sometimes different from the usual spelling, and I have to say that my fellow citizens often visited the individual utility companies or even the land office to get these data right into the system. Due to the generosity of the administrators or the lack of IT systems they use, we know of a case where a name has been recorded in six ways with each service provider, because the administrator has brought it up to the administrative system with foreign-sounding letters or letter links after the first hearing, thus causing annoyance to the individual, and the data could be supplemented and corrected with a long queue, some annoyance, sometimes even charging. 18th of 2005 on district heating Act LXXXVI of 2007 on electricity Act XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas Law 1 and CCIX of 2011 on water utility services. By amending law, this world will be over, and now the individual data correctly included will be transmitted to the service providers. Dear House, At yesterday's meeting of our Commission, T/17277 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the introduction of the data change management service and the reduction of the administrative burden on citizens. It agreed with bill No 1. On this basis, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary agrees with and supports the adoption of the bill under discussion. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary joins the detailed discussion of the bill and also makes possible amendments to its proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-19-191	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-10-19-192	I'd like to say one sentence. I would like to thank you for the supporting contributions so far, and I hope that during the Commission's debates and in the final vote there will be consensus in Parliament, which is rarely the case. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-10-19-193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[19.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. The rapporteur's speech after the agenda is given by Mr 554.9. Here you go.
u2021-10-19-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Walking on the roads of Hungary, we are shocked to find that fuel prices have been brutally unleashed. In a Somogyi well, for example, we have to root 555 for a litre of gas oil, not for the premium category, because the price is already close to 600 forints. But how much of this money can we buy now? Well, please, several kilos of flour, several liters of milk, dozens of buns and maybe a dozen eggs, but I'm gonna stress that for now. Because in order not to misunderstand the situation, this expensive fuel not only affects the car industry, it also affects carriers, farmers, who produce our food, but also the service providers, who will sooner or later be forced to include the price of fuel prices in their prices and service prices, so everyone will experience a terrible price increase on their own. And why are fuel prices so high in Hungary? It is well known that our country is not an oil power, and consequently, oil is imported in a decisive majority, so if you like, we are at the mercy of world market prices. However, fewer people already know that there is a huge tax burden on the world market, 120 and 125 forints excise duty per litre, 4 forints stocking fee, and then there is 27 percent VAT on the European record. So, ladies and gentlemen, due to the enormous tax burden, the fuel we buy at gas stations costs exactly double the actual world market price. Well, what's the solution then? How, though, can people please and reduce this price? Well, obviously, I have some ideas, too, but let's see Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's proposal from 2004 when he was not yet Prime Minister, and when it cost only HUF 236 a litre of gas! Mr Orbán is now, if you will allow me, literally quoted as the state profites from higher fuel prices. According to Fidesz, either the excise duty should be drastically reduced by 20 percent or the VAT on petrol. Well, we can see that there is a solution. Yes, there would be a solution, but the Prime Minister also later told us not to pay attention to what he says, to what he does. So what does the Fidesz government do? He does nothing, and by doing so, he will result in a brutal increase in prices in Hungary, and the government will profit from fuel prices, and he will sabotage people, all Hungarian people. But the question is, how much longer can we put up with it, how much longer we can leave it; when this situation could be changed by a stroke of a pen for the Fidesz government, they do not. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I trust that if I do not get an answer to my questions now, but the Hungarian Government will take substantial steps, stop profiting on fuel prices, and stop making unjustified cuts on people. Believe me, we are increasingly impatient to take action. Thank you for listening, and I really hope you will hear the people's voice. Thank you very much.
u2021-10-19-195	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a good rest, everyone.
