u2015-10-21-0	Dear Parliament, The 11th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and László Földi will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A parliamentary report by the President of the Curia on the activities of the Curia in 2014 in the field of legal unity and local government standard control, B/5618. the report submitted by the President of the Curia and H/6370 on its adoption. joint general debate on the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee until its closure. Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome Dr. Péter Darák, President of the Curia, Dr. István Kónya, Deputy President, Dr. Monika Erőss, and the staff of the Curia, who are monitoring our work on the ground. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Darák, President of the Curia, author of the report. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2015-10-21-1	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Allow me to begin my pre-plenary report with the words of the former President of Curia, Gustáv Tőry, who was appointed as rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on the subject. In the first half of the century, in the first period of the century, he said the following words in the hope of creating a new civil code. The hopes and expectations of our society before the civil code are abundant. Three of these epochal tasks emerge as the most important. First, we expect legal certainty, second, the national legal unit, third, the conditions for social and economic progress. In the light of this threefold task, the characteristics of the law must be considered. The best evidence of legal certainty is the ability of the judge, the judicial practice, to immediately absorb a number of the rules of the law. This fully serves the legislative purpose with its legal structure. Perhaps even more important than legal certainty is the creation of a legal unity, which can be the most solid foundation of a kind of legal cultural community. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The President of the Curia also pointed out how important it is that in situations where the content of legislation is taken over from foreign law, its transposition takes place in a form that does not change the Hungarian nature of the work as a whole. Therefore, the often inevitable content reception must also take the form of assimilation. In addition to preserving the existing right, however, it defined the new code as an important task to create safeguards for social and economic progress and set out a number of examples of this, for example, in the social requirements that required the protection of the weak against the strong, to prevent the unqualifiedness of individual selfishness, and to guarantee greater integrity and good faith in traffic. Gusztáv Tőry saw that the new civil code could be a code that will be a solid basis for justice, a fertile soil of national law and an effective guardian of the country's social and economic progress. I believe that no Hungarian judge today can say more about what goals the legal system should achieve, ensure, and that the courts should also play an active role in this. The President of the Curia, when standing before the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament once a year, must address two issues on the basis of the obligation imposed by the Fundamental Law. One is the operation of the Municipal Council of the Curia, the practice of controlling the rules of the local government and the provision of the legal unit. If you'll allow me, I'll start with the subject of local government standard control, also because in recent years, there has been less talk about them. The functioning of the local government standard control has been completed over the past period, and we can expect two joyful developments. One is that, at times, it is enough to open the norm control procedure before the Curia itself, and this already moves the authors of the regulations that include the contested provision to review their own regulation. And the other is a kind of helpful control. Thus, in the practice of the Council of Local Government in 2014, a number of principles have been stated that can help the normalising work of municipal representative bodies. In 2014, the Council took 68 decisions, of which 46 were substantive decisions, including a relatively high number of decisions on failure to act as a law-based legislator. The operation of the Municipal Council was defined by two series of trials. One was concentrated on the requirements for public cemeteries, where the Curia stated that this particular way of exploiting the property should be taken into account in this case, in the context of a period of local tax on public cemeteries. The second is the fact that the municipalities have failed to establish their decree on the transport of domestic waste water. For each major case, it is necessary to highlight the mansion decision on the subject of the land tax, which was born in a situation in which the legislator extended the scope of the taxable property to the outside areas, but did not follow this differentiation in relation to the rate of tax, and this resulted in a disproportionate tax rate on external real estate. The other major decision, as I mentioned, was related to the use of real estate with a public cemetery function. Here, the Curia stated that this particular way of using the property should be assessed in the context of the local peculiarity. The Curia has also set out an important conclusion as regards the tax exemption of housing on the spot, stating that in the case of land tax, this cannot serve as a basis for tax exemption, but in the case of construction tax, actual residence may serve as a basis for tax exemption. In a specific decision of the Curia, it also stood up for the protection of the tasks and powers of the local government when it allowed the municipality the possibility of additional legislation when examining the regulations governing events around Hungaroring. [[8.10]] It protected the local government's regulatory autonomy when it stressed that it would not destroy a municipal decree purely from the beauty of the law, because this would result in real legal uncertainty. The Curia has taken a significant decision to protect self-government autonomy in the case of a Financial Regulation, which raised issues of interpretation in the situation of coercion. It also took a consumer protection decision in respect of parking as a public service when it stated that it was not enough to allow the regulation only once a month and within five days of the inspection to demonstrate that the compensation for the public service was paid by the consumer. On the subject of public life-style residence, the Curia stressed that living in a public area should be prohibited only where the values to be protected explicitly require factual and verifiable implementation. The Curia deviated from the previous practice of the Constitutional Court, even prior to the transfer of powers, in the fact that it also reviewed the individual decision contained in the municipal decree and improved the property protection test in the case of a construction regulation. Also, the Curia has taken a number of reprehensible decisions on the fact that the municipalities did not establish their decree on municipal aid within the deadline. So much for the control of local government standards, and if I may, I would like to say a few words about the issues of legal unit activity in 2014. In 2014, our most important task is to review our legal guidelines relating to the civil code that entered into force at the time. This is the Mansion of 1/2014. PJE's legal unit decision has reviewed the dozens of previous guidelines that are the old Ptk. associated with the use of interferon alfa-2b in combination with ribavirin. The Mansion had to perform a relatively difficult task, since it was the old Ptk. Based on this, lawsuits may remain pending for decades, so the guidelines had to be weeded out in such a way that they would be suitable for the old Ptk. On the basis of ongoing lawsuits to ensure the unity of rights, but do not prevent the formation of judicial practice of the new civil code. The Curia fought with increasing cases in 2014, but its results increased for all cases and the number of pending cases decreased for all cases. This has been achieved with the assistance of my colleagues, and I would also like to thank you. The timeliness of the Curia's judgment is outstanding in the Eastern Central European region, all cases will be completed within a year, and civil and criminal matters will be largely closed within six months. We must not ignore the fact that in 2014 we lived in the year of elections, which was an election remedy for nearly two months' arrival in the work of the Ministry of Public Administration and Labour of the Curia. Nevertheless, the level has been maintained both in terms of timeliness and in terms of substantive arrangements. The Curia's legal unit activities are increasingly characterised by the carrying out of case-law analyses. In 2014, the Curia examined important legal issues, and I quote them only by example: the rights of defence in the judicial procedure, the examination of expert evidence, the applicability of the legal consequences of nullity in the loan contracts, the substantive and procedural issues of simultaneous infringement and termination of execution cases, the judicial review of the government officials' arbitration decisions and the case-law of expropriation cases were also examined in the context of a case-law analysis. Reports and reports on the analysis are available on the Curia website, and they include a number of initiatives to clarify legislation and to make organisational and personal decisions regarding the examination of expert evidence. In addition to the findings of the case-law analysis, the Curia has also used its traditional legal unit instruments, and accordingly has taken legal unit decisions with regard to the concept of civil society law, the Administrative and Labour College has repealed its previous guidelines on this subject. The Civic College, as I mentioned, has reviewed all its guidelines relating to the old Ptk., and a major decision on the unfairness of foreign exchange-based consumer credit agreements has been reached. The conclusions of this, namely: the risk of exchange rate changes, the contractual provisions allowing unilateral contractual amendments and the unfair application of special exchange rates, were based on the principles adopted and expressed in the Curia's legal unit decision. In addition, a legal unit decision also dealt with the payment of a moderate supervisory fee. Among the college opinions, I would like to highlight the opinion of the College on the rules governing the submission of an application for a review in labour proceedings, the suspension of enforcement in administrative matters and certain issues relating to the repeal of the judgment in civil matters. With regard to this last-mentioned college opinion, I would like to stress that the Curia has acted against unjustified and unnecessary repeals, in this college opinion it states the principle that errors that can be corrected in the second-degree procedure must be eliminated. The Curia has also linked the performance of the legal unit tasks to the general renewal of the organization, thus developing various trainings, action plans and quality management systems, which overall contribute to the fulfilment of the constitutional substantive task of the Curia. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[8.20]]
u2015-10-21-2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Judicial Committee, the rapporteur for the proposal for a decision, has indicated in advance that he does not wish to speak in the debate. The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, the Housekeeper of Parliament, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-21-3	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Mr. Peter Darák, The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 117. According to § (1) of the Act, the Curia reports each year on the activities of the National Assembly in order to ensure the unity of the application of the law of the court, as well as on the experience gained in examining the conflict and annulment of the municipal decree and the failure of the local government to comply with its legislative obligations based on the law. The Fundamental Law of Hungary, the title of the courts, Article 25, states:, The courts carry out judicial activities. The supreme court body is the Curia. So this is the second full year of the Mansion as a re-established legal institution, on the basis of which we can draw a balance sheet, and on this basis we have every reason to be satisfied. If there is an outstanding moment in the legal life of closing the system change, these will certainly include the restoration of the institution of the Curia in the field of justice. It is not only that we have revived a court forum in line with Hungarian traditions, but we have also created a scientific and practical workshop that brings together the remaining unevenness of the Hungarian legal system in a comprehensive way, with great expertise and the whole judiciary. The Curia is not only a high-level case-law forum, but also a legal standard for society, which sometimes sets out the practical steps for the use of the law even for the public policy at hand. The Curia has laid down concepts, legal and moral relationships, behaviours, almost by the power of the law, decisions of the law and college opinions binding on the courts, which not only made judgment easier for the courts, but also gave compasses to all law-seeking people for legal proceedings, for law-abiding conduct. It is also particularly helpful for the legislator to have a role to play in the opinion of the draft legislation. I would like to mention the work of the Civic College, which has actively contributed to the legislation by making professional comments on the draft legislation that has been sent to it directly or through the National Court Office. In 2014, nearly twenty legislative proposals were submitted to the Civic College, to which the substantive comments made by the Curia significantly helped to legislate. Special mention should be given to the work in which several members of the Civic College joined the codification of the new Civic Rules. The report by the President of the Curia, which we have just discussed, contains the tasks and professional objectives of the Curia. Among these, it is important to ensure a uniform, high-quality judgment. I would like to mention some of the efforts made to ensure a uniform approach to the case-law, without the need for completeness. Following the entry into force of the new civil code, an outstanding work was to review all the earlier acts of the Supreme Court and the Curia on economic and legal matters, nearly 300 legal units, to which the Curia's Civic College complied. The Curia's interpretation of the law revealed the interpretation of legal unfairness in the foreign exchange loan agreements affecting almost all of the Hungarian economy and society. It is essential in this case that the Curia has again drawn attention to the general requirements for the fairness of unilateral contractual amendments. The Criminal College has clarified the concept of persons with a public service mission benefiting from increased protection in criminal matters in the area of passenger transport. I would like to mention, among the opinions of the Administrative and Labour College, the report on the uniform legal consequences of the illegal termination of employment by the employer. This may affect a wide range of citizens when assessing infringements. The above opinions, which have been drawn up with a scientific need, can improve the quality of the case-law and the persuasive force of the judgments and its adoption, with effect from the whole of the case-law. The case-law analysis groups of judges with high professional recognition and experience have been entrusted with the task of analysing the enforcement of rights of defence. The summary report, which was adopted by the Criminal College at its meeting in March 2015, states that the Criminal Procedure Act regulates the rights and obligations of the defender in principle in accordance with international human rights requirements. In expropriation cases, the Administrative and Labour College has provided guidance on the problem of determining the value of traffic and the claim for compensation after expropriation. In order to strengthen the legality of judicial proceedings, a uniform interpretation of expert evidence was needed, which covers all areas of law. The opinion was adopted at a joint meeting of the three colleges of the Curia. The case-law analysis team examined all areas of professional operation and provided guidance on the requirements of becoming an expert, improving the legal environment of professional operation and the use of evidence in court. In particular, reference should be made to the need to standardise the expert methodology. All these efforts are completed by the operation of the principled Board of Disclosure. Within the Curia, five Boards of Disclosure shall publish the Curia's decisions and decisions in principle. The published decisions concern the whole jurisdiction of the disciplines. In the last year, he considered it necessary to publish 75 decisions in principle and 19 decisions in principle in order to ensure the unity of rights. Following the publication, it is clear to both the parties concerned and the lower and higher courts what the relevant position in the Curia is. It is necessary to mention the activities of the Kuria in the framework of the local government standard control, which it took over from the Constitutional Court. In the context of the conclusions made in principle by the Municipal Council of the Curia during the revision of the municipal decrees, the revision of the right to levy local taxes should be mentioned because of the wide range of concerns, in particular with regard to local tax assets and the interpretation of living in the public area, which gave an impact on the daily lives of many citizens and offices on the regulatory framework of the public authority. Dear Parliament, Although all my fellow Members and interested parties had the opportunity to read the report, I felt it necessary to highlight these issues, raising awareness of the wide-ranging work that the Curia has undertaken in its second full year on the renewal of the legal system and the case law. [[8.30]] Overall, we can say that the Curia has dealt with the disputes it is facing almost with the need for scientific knowledge, proving that without high-quality legal knowledge, it is not possible to deal with life's complicated, controversial issues fairly. In recent years, a position has also been expressed that saw the Curia's parliamentary report as unnecessary. In my opinion, such a comprehensive report on the highest level of judgment is useful to Parliament as well, useful guidance on the momentary state of justice and the necessary work to be done. Not to mention that the unevenness in the field of case law often does not require the Curia's legal unit procedure, but rather the legislator must detect and settle situations that trigger different case law. Dear Parliament, To sum this up, the Curia is an outstanding player in the Hungarian system of justice as a supreme court forum. The report on its activities in 2014 shows that it has helped to develop Hungarian law and administrative systems, raise public life and legal awareness in all relevant groups. At its meeting on 28 September 2015, the Parliament's Judicial Committee responsible for its tasks and powers discussed and supported the adoption of the report. The Committee notes that the professional objectives of the Curia for 2014 - such as ensuring a uniform and high-quality case-law by exploiting new legal unity opportunities, improving the timeliness of the judging activities in individual cases, making the decisions of the Curia clear and supporting the preparation of legislation - have been achieved. The Committee considers it important to work on the case-law analysis groups established for a high level of judgment, in particular the examination of expert evidence. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I propose to the Parliament that it adopt the 2014 report of the Curia. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-21-4	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Harangozó, lead speaker of the MSZP Group, will now be speaking. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-21-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, - at least the part-country assembly who is here right now honoring this debate with his personal presence. Mr President, As in recent years, the Curia's activities in 2014 also received a professionally comprehensive, thorough report from the National Assembly. The report provides detailed information on all areas of the Curia's activities, including the professional work of the Criminal College, the Civil College and the Administrative and Labour College. The written document and the oral amendment made by the President also showed that the Curia has a busy year behind it. The entry into force of the new Civil Code on 15 March 2014 was obviously a major challenge for the entire judiciary. The Curia performed a large and significant task when the new Ptk. In the context of its entry into force, it has carried out a review of all legal unit instruments previously adopted on civil and economic law in accordance with Article 1 of Regulation (EU) No 1/2014. Decision No.3 of the Court of Justice. No doubt the most significant decision of 2014 was taken by 2/2014. PJE. it was a decision which took a position in assessing the fairness of foreign exchange loan contracts. In our view, in the existing legal environment, the Curia has made a particularly courageous, forward-looking decision. The fact that a large proportion of families with foreign currency credit feel deceived today is not the result of this court decision, but rather of the fact that, fellow Members, Fidesz, after providing a HUF 180 final repayment to the wealthier groups able to mobilise major funds, knowingly devalued the forint. Between 2010-14, Fidesz continuously lied to non-reimbursable foreign exchange lenders that it would provide them with a positive solution over time. They have always argued that they are waiting for the judgment of a court: the Constitutional Court, the Court of Justice of the European Union, and the Curia's decision were still absolutely necessary for government action. However, it must be clear that the Fidesz majority in the Hungarian Parliament could have decided on the forinting and other steps without the decision of the Curia. However, it is no coincidence that they waited until the 2014 election. Foreign currency loans were denominated at HUF 309 and HUF 256.5 Swiss francs. Just to remind you, the euro was slightly higher than 260 in 2010 and the franc exceeded 180 forints in 2010. What is important to stress is that this was not the result of the Curia or any other court, but the government's conscious policy of sacrificing foreign exchange creditors. By establishing the unfairness of unilateral contractual amendments and declaring the use of different foreign exchange and foreign exchange sales rates used in repayments, the Curia has gone on this matter as far as it could go. In essence, the National Assembly did nothing but enact these consequences and ensure the implementation of the Curia's decision. The MSZP explicitly welcomes the efforts made in the report to make the Curia more accessible in a more accessible form to citizens seeking rights. The launch of the online version of the decisions of the Curia is a commendable development of 2014. There is only one technical objection in the context of the report: it could have been a serious challenge for 2014 and, as it was mentioned here in the oral supplement, Mr President, it was the handling of electoral matters. This, however, contains surprisingly few emphasis and surprisingly few specifics in the report. In December last year, on behalf of the MSZP, in the parliamentary debate on the 2013 report of the Curia, I praised the respectable stand with which the courts defend their independence. I have explained that many things have been spoilt by the shifter generation, but there is certainly no reason to be ashamed in one area: judges who are proud of their independence and professional skills have not only absorbed centuries of legal principles and rules of private law and public law, but also the culture of the rule of law and constitutionality in recent decades. Unfortunately, this cannot be said for the other institutions that exercise public authority. This is why, after 2010, a two-thirds majority abuse was carried out, and in our view, a constitutional coup made the entire state organization an instrument of the arbitrage of a narrow elite of power. However, the courts have maintained their values and continue to fulfil their function. They continue to stand up for the rule of law, the rule of law, all because of the self-conscious, well-prepared judges. We will continue to maintain our position in December last year, in view of this, I would like to thank the judges on behalf of the MSZP for their work in the previous year; however, Mr President, we cannot go without saying that the events of yesterday, the decision of yesterday, cast a very dark shadow on this particularly positive overall picture in relation to the Curia. As is known, the Curia rejected the referendum initiative on Sunday's closure. Of course, it is not the fact of the Curia's rejection decision itself, but its very, very strange circumstances raise very serious concerns about the quote I read from last year's report. First of all, some things are worth clarifying. Mr. President, you can't order judges to do anything, can you? It's the right thing to do. The judges themselves, beyond the text and spirit of the law, cannot exercise any political or other interest in their decision, if I understand correctly, and they must do their job according to their best professional knowledge. If these are clarified, then it is worth considering what happened yesterday. [[8.40]] Yesterday, the Curia did not decide on the questions contained in the submissions and simply did not answer the questions put in the submissions. He obviously didn't answer, because if he had to answer the questions he asked, he wouldn't have made the decision he made yesterday. Let me give you an example: don't you, Mr President, that there is no judge in Curia who has confirmed the high-level and very demanding decision of the National Election Committee that the concept of a legal arrival should be understood as entering the door in Hungary? This question was, of course, bypassed by the Curia. Instead, he made a decision of principle, which I think he has a place, and it is important that we also clarify and discuss with you here, because he made that decision in principle and rejected this particular case on the basis of the fact that the citizen has no right to initiate a referendum on his behalf in Hungary. These are the two fundamental problems, Mr President. One concerns the specific issue and the other is a much more important and basically a matter for Parliament, and it is a matter of principle. In the specific case, the court could have examined at least the fact that it had spent months asking that the law itself gave us an opportunity to re-submit, under the law the re-submit should be regarded as having taken place at the original time. In this particular case, the applicant, personally Zoltán Lukács, made the resubmit in person. This was completely ignored by the court, and, in our view, since it is a final decision, it is possible to analyse it; it simply did not deal with it. Let's put this in parentheses, I wouldn't want to act like we're having a complaining afternoon here, obviously everyone will continue to do their job, Mr President, we will also attack this decision in all the forums as possible, in international and domestic forums. It is much more interesting, Mr President, that the court has made a decision in principle in a specific case, and that is contrary to the practice of the institution of the referendum for the last 24 years. If someone can prove it to me, I can't, but I just assume that, for example, the social referendum issues of Viktor Orbán and Zsolt Semjén in private were personally submitted to the National Election Committee, I don't know. But in recent times, such case law, which you have just said, has not been the opposite. For example, the only certified question for us was approved by the National Election Committee by giving it on an authorised basis. The real big question, Mr President, you know, is that to make such a decision in principle so that the referendum procedure itself looks like that, in the next second after their decision, nearly eight million citizens should have been prepared to change the entire procedure so far by their decision in principle, I do not know where they meet the rule of law, predictability and other principles that I think should be taken into account in any way. And the reason I'm telling you this, Mr President, is because you wrote to me five months ago, in a letter written to me personally on 27 May, that you have initiated a legal unit decision on this matter. So, five months ago, the Curia failed to make a decision on a legal unity, and at some level to put an end to the cynical game of completely unworthy and transparent, specifically serving party political interests, which the state authorities are playing with the people here in the name of a referendum, by the way, not with a party, should not be a mistake, but with Hungarian people. This single-law decision could not be taken in five months, and now, in a specific case, a decision has been taken to overturn the entire procedure so far with principle, and I say once again: it makes this legal institution completely unpredictable, since it is relatively difficult to prepare in one second to submit it on an authorised or personal basis. Even a quick saying, which is why it is worth attacking even in an international forum. Mr President, with this decision, the vast majority of Hungarian citizens were excluded from the possibility of a referendum initiative. It is only one - I think - legal and substantive nonsense that, in addition to marriage, the conclusion of the matrimonial property contract and the paternity recognition declaration - these are the three legal institutions that must be done in person - the fourth will now be the referendum initiative in civil law. But the biggest problem here is that with this queued system, the current decision of the Curia, which he said, is physical inability. It is physically impossible to get from the countryside, from the other side of the country, or even from Budapest, for example, to the National Election Office in the life of a disabled person and to present a valid question in the current system. So I think that there are many parts of this decision that we would expect some kind of response. Not to mention how someone is lucky enough to show up suddenly just before the 10:00 time known by the Curia and disappear five minutes later. In the meantime, the man who then cynically tells the Hungarian press that, suddenly ahead of the people who exercise their rights in the morning, can appear at the exact time that we can call it luck that has happened. It would be a good question, Mr President, that, apart from luck, what else can you call this, when, by the way, the Curia has not made its decision public before 2 p.m. in the last year, since we have been paying particular attention to its decisions. So to say that someone expected this, and woke up in the garden of Tordas, his little business, for example, by leaving, and giving up his question at 10:00 a.m., everyone understands that it is nonsense. This is a problem, Mr President, because it basically shakes the trust not only in us, but in the whole country, which your colleagues have done for many decades is fair, prepared, diligent and, if necessary, often against any authority by enforcing the letter and spirit of the law. And that is an inaccessible loss, Mr President, and I would therefore like to say on behalf of the MSZP that, in contrast to the automatic and good heart of the years so far, until you or someone else has answered these questions this year, it is not obvious that we will accept their accounts. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-10-21-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear President of the Curia, The report before us is indeed a material that is meaningful and extensive in many areas. In the Commission debate, we had the opportunity to address questions to Mr President, and I believe that a meaningful debate was opened at the Justice Committee meeting. I think that is right, because the accounts and resolutions of the Curia often contain points that may be important to the public and the Parliament, so in this case they can be discussed and entered the Parliament for a reason. I said at the committee's meeting that the points that are not problems in 2014 and that I am thinking mainly about the issue of foreign exchange loans, not only did they not come from this year, but I do not think that, above all, the consequences of the wrong decisions of the Curia. The - and I will explain here - problem the Curia faced with these foreign exchange credit contracts or foreign exchange contracts is obviously a long-awaited legal problem, and it also raised problems with the transformation of old Hungarian legal institutions, but here I think that Parliament and the government had a bigger role, and if anyone made a mistake, then the government and the Parliament also made bigger mistakes. I feel that on certain topics the Curia has only followed or tried to follow the wrong legislation that the Parliament has implemented. Another thing is that, according to Hungarian law, the Parliament and the Members of Parliament do not have to face the people with responsibility for the adoption of a law which is wrong or in many ways harmful. This stays with a political responsibility at best, but with responsibility, not only for the individual Members of Parliament, obviously this would lead too far, but also for the Hungarian State. [[8.50]] This is a next issue. I would not agree to this because these would be legal debates - whether, let us say, to hold the Hungarian State responsible for the decisions of the Hungarian Parliament for damages - which obviously do not belong to this report, but I must say that we are not sure that it is in the interests of the people in all aspects of the current regulation. Before I turn to foreign exchange and nullity decisions, I would like to highlight another area that may be closed more quickly and easily. Mr President mentioned it, and on page 35 of the report there is also a civil college opinion calling for them to be corrected in the case of second-degree errors, and, in the case of redressable errors, it suggests the practice of not repealing it, not starting a new procedure, but the second degree to carry out its task and the final decision to be taken. We have seen this before in criminal proceedings, and if I remember correctly, last year's report contained sentences that were otherwise fully eligible, which indicated that in many cases, unfortunately, the substantive decision, the substantive judgment, instead of the substantive judgment, is being repealed, which not only prolongs and prolongs cases, but also creates a kind of legal uncertainty on the one hand - I am talking again about criminal proceedings - and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the appearance of legal uncertainty. This was the case this year in the Bisku case, and it would have been very good to see the efforts that we had seen in the Curia, and it now arises in the field of civil law, but last year we saw this in the area of criminal law, so that there would be as little repeal as possible, and the second degree, if you know, discusses matters with merit as much as possible. If the courts had taken this sufficiently seriously, I feel that, for example, we could have seen, in the Bisku case, that a second-degree decision would have been made, a second-degree decision that does not repeal it, but transcends or says "bet," so either confirms or alters the judgment at first instance. I would only like to bring this here because these big cases, as I have said, basically define the view of society towards the judicial system, and, as I have said, in this case, we clearly see the position of the Curia in the areas of criminal law and civil law, and we clearly agree with its position, but in many cases the courts cannot follow it to 100%. I also hope that they do not follow only in the big cases, but of course I do not have any illusions, so that no decision in the Mansion will be taken overnight to the level of the courts, or at least to the root of the judges' thinking on a daily basis, but it may not always reach the final point. But I am very confident that in the case law of the coming years, we can see that the judges will do so in smaller and larger cases. The next area, which is also covered by the report, is the issue of nullity in relation to foreign currency loans. This is a delicate area because law-seeking citizens have suffered these loans to the currency. We have already had the debate here before the National Assembly on why we do not consider the agreements to be foreign currency loans and how the banking sector has cheated the whole country and consumers, how currency did not enter the country, and if foreign currency did not enter the country, then the damage to the banks cannot be determined as if they had to take these loans from Switzerland for financing purposes; we have already done so here. But what we can see is that those who went to court were able to go to court even after the Parliament and the Curia made their decisions in 2013, and citizens who went to court were trying to find the legal opportunities still open to them, and they relied on the decision of the Curia in 2013, which gave me the opportunity to do this, I have to say, well, they were faced with the fact that the laws on the part of the Parliament that would give citizens seeking rights any opportunity to come out of this terrible situation would actually be changed on a daily basis. This is where the legal institution of nullity came up the most. Many have argued that if a contract suffers from a defect in which the whole contract is invalid, it falls apart and there is a settlement relationship between the parties, this obviously affected only part of the contracts, since there had to be serious legal problems in order to make reference to nullity. Well, in these cases, too, the government or the Parliament led things to be accounted for in foreign currency, while the Hungarian case law has stated that if a contract is not fully valid, then it is not possible to choose which points should be valid and which do not, then the outstanding debt is in fact adjusted to the service received, and the service received in these cases was created on a forint basis, so it should be accounted for that way. The interesting thing is that this was legally the case, people went to court to enforce it, but I will soon explain how the National Assembly, in particular, made this enforcement impossible. On page 42 of the report, there is a very important finding that the legal unit decision of 6/2013 did not fully answer the question of when, in the event of invalidity, the court should apply the legal consequences of invalidity. The report also explains that this could have happened because it could not be excluded that, following the decision of the Constitutional Court or the Court of Justice of the European Union, a very large number of foreign exchange loan agreements would be considered invalid. These are very true words, and it projectes and shows that already in 2013 the Curia was fully aware that anything could come out of this situation, and legally, by examining the legislation - because that was the job of the Curia - the judges of the Curia saw perfectly that this could be anything under the laws that were then in force. It can be anything, and not only the Hungarian Court of Justice but also the Court of Justice of the European Union, as defined by EU law, can be a large number of these contracts. As a result, we understand why this was included in the 2013 decision, but, as I mentioned, then things got a little rough, because those who turned to court found that their interest was somehow prevented. In order to take forward the very specific legislation that has recently become in force, the 2014 XL became effective on 5 October 2015. In this respect, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. by law, the Parliament brought me through as an amendment. [[9.00]] This was submitted in September, so on the 18th of the previous month, we are talking about something very recent, but - and in addition - a law that was not basically based on a mortgage, it didn't even want to settle house loans, but, in the common sense, it was more important here for car-crediters, and here it is an important law for car-crediters - it has reached back, and the 2014 XL. By amending law, Parliament has virtually made it impossible for anyone here to refer to nullity in such a way that the restoration of the original state can be requested. In addition, the court should not only have the possibility, in fact, of settling back and forth, of establishing a contract between the consumer and the bank, in spite of the will of the parties, and especially the consumer, at the moment of conclusion and later, for which the consumer is wrong, but of declaring it valid, and not of the original status, or of the fact that, if it is done, it cannot be regarded as a restoration of the real, original state; therefore, whatever it is legally, because if it is to be settled in foreign currency on the basis of an invalid contract, in fact, the consumer is in the place where the beach falls. By the way, in the courtrooms, this was also an amazing disappointment for the lawyers, and they saw that in the laws that they had already launched and would have been easily won under the laws that were in force at the time, the Parliament prevented them from winning, and, as I said, the last amendment entered into force on 5 October. I wanted to say these things to you, and I would emphasise what I have said, that, in spite of the fact that we expect any guidance from the Curia to be given to the courts, the Curia can only provide guidance on the basis of the legislation in force and make decisions on a legal unit. Nor can the Curia be prepared to rewrite very old Hungarian law institutions and otherwise international and European law institutions only for the sake of banks, because of contracts that lied to foreign exchange credit, and this is due to the majority of Fidesz-KDNP and the government, who agreed with the banks in the background. I know that these are strong words, perhaps Members who have not been involved in the whole of this process are hurting, but I would ask you to look at the regulations that have taken place. Here I would point out one more thing factually, because there is much to say: European case law, or the current rules of unfairness and nullity against consumers, and the increasingly harsh rules that Parliament has made, how they go against the law of the European Union, and how the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union are put into parentheses in practice. That would all be true, but I don't want to burden you with that, that would go beyond the account of the Mansion. However, I would like to highlight one thing, and this is the 1/2010 PK opinion, which, unfortunately, most of its points were not maintained when this was reviewed here with regard to the new civil code. I believe that the activities of the Parliament have been involved in making such bad decisions and removing nullity from its true function as it was born in the Hungarian legal order, but I still believe that several points of this 1/2010 PK opinion would have been sustainable and several points of the old legal institution. Here, for example, point 2, which describes the general legal consequences of nullity, has often been referred to in the lawsuits and stated that there is no right to establish such a transaction. In this form, this may not necessarily be right, that this has not been maintained. But I must say that in this, too, I feel the bad laws of the legislative power, but therefore, if I may put it this way, we have serious concerns, and we do not see, at the moment, how in the future the consequences of nullity or the institution of nullity itself will be distorted by the fact that the Parliament has made these wrong decisions here. So by expressing these reservations - and, in particular, by blaming ourselves here most of all, legislators, although we have always formulated our criticisms of these laws - the Jobbik faction will form its opinion on the report, waiting for Mr President's reply. By the way, I consider it to be a professionally thorough work, and it also contains what I forgot to mention here in foreign exchange matters: Mr President, President of the Curia, President Péter Darák has also set up a case-law analysis group in this area, and it is an interesting question why there is no case law in this area. On the one hand, because a large number of these cases have been suspended, or the courts - and let us say that in many cases, too, because of the chaos that has been seen above, and again, it has been quite clear from the lawyers who have been negotiating this - have in many cases not dared to decide, however strange it is. Of course, I know that these are also difficult words, but the courts have waited for what will happen, what decision they will have to make, or what they will have to make - and this is also a painful point - that, in many cases, according to colleagues, judges have found that, in the context of a preliminary ruling procedure, the Court of Justice of the European Union should be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union because of the laws it has taken because of the completely contrary decisions of the Hungarian Parliament or the Court of Justice of the European Union. But in many cases they simply didn't dare to take it on, they felt that this case was so fierce and so big a fight that even an independent judge couldn't possibly come out of. So in that case, and in view of the events of recent years - I have to understand, of course, the judges, professionally and by law - if the government and the whole Parliament were not able to give a proper answer in a perfectly clear legal situation and stand before the banks, so that dear banks, whatever the laws in force, be as big as you are, whether you are foreigners, but you have to comply with them, and if you have failed to do something under Hungarian law, equipped with lawyers, counsellors, then bear the consequences of this financial law, or if you do not want to do so, at least I ask you to show your real damage, how much damage you have actually suffered, if you have not been able to do so by the two-thirds Hungarian government or the Hungarian government with two-thirds parliamentary support, then a judge who is destined for judgment can be at least humanly understood to shake your hand. Of course not professionally and by law, I stress this, but we are also trying to see the human side of this problem, and for this reason the responsibility is clearly the government and the Parliament. In this connection, we are in a difficult situation, and we will be in a difficult position to evaluate the Curia's report, but if I have discussed these issues in detail, it was precisely to clarify to you the dilemma that the Parliament has forced us into. I would also like to thank Mr President for his work and wish him good work. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-21-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As independent Members have not indicated their intention to speak, a two-minute speech will now take place. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mátrai, Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-21-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The essence of my two-minute speech is that of Mr Tamás Harangozó's keynote speech, because in my view it was unworthy and wrong of what he said in his keynote speech about foreign exchange lenders. Mrs Jakab-Földi-Hegedűs/ [[9.10]] In fact, the Court's assessment of the activities of the Curia in 2014 was not correct through its claim on foreign exchange lenders. But if you have done so, Congressman, I would like to add a few points: the multitude of citizens who have been indebted to the foreign currency loan was the result of socialist governance, which has led hundreds of thousands of families into the trap of hopeless debt, with the almost violent supply of both euro-based and Swiss-based loans. Together with the banks, they forgot to mention only the extremely important fact, or they forgot to draw the attention of citizens, that the exchange rate change poses a huge threat to the everyday lives of families. It has helped thousands and tens of thousands of families with the decisions of the Curia, and on this basis the civilian government has taken the measure that is known to all of us, with due regard, and thus ensured the existence and legal certainty of the families, which remains to this day. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-10-21-10	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group.
u2015-10-21-11	Thank you very much. I must say to my fellow Member from Mátra that there is much truth in what he said, but let us not forget that it was during the first Orbán government that it was possible for people to take on consumer foreign exchange loans. Mihály Varga once even said that this is a good thing, and this is a forward-looking thing. The unilateral amendment of the contract was also made possible under the first Fidesz government, and the failure to confront the banks, not to mention the exchange rate change, is also the fault of the Fidesz-KDNP government with two-thirds support under the current legislation. Why didn't you ask if one fifth of them came into the country in foreign currency... - we're talking about statistics from the Hungarian National Bank, so it's not some hocus pocus or something published in an economic journal; the statistics of the Hungarian National Bank: one fifth of them came into the country in foreign currency as the amount banks tried to set up as foreign currency loans. Then someone here is a very big liar, and not to mention, according to the law, a lot of contracts should have been completely invalid. And by the way, it is not my place to defend socialist governments because they have committed crimes, or have committed most of the crimes on this subject, but the possibility that, as of October 5th, someone can have their contract declared invalid and the lawsuits that exist to the detriment of consumers, please, this is again the fault of the government and the Fidesz-KDNP majority, and these rules have been adopted here in the last month before the National Assembly. So it is difficult to say that it could be pointed out here to the past socialist governments; they were also to blame, but you were at least as wrong when you were unable to enforce Hungarian legislation towards the banks. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-21-12	Thank you, Congressman. A two-minute speech was also submitted by Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2015-10-21-13	Thank you very much. For the sake of historical loyalty only: foreign currency lending was introduced during the Fidesz-KDNP government, linked to Matolcsy and Járai; only to manage everything in place. I would like to say to Mrs Mátrai Márta that I feel unworthy that no one from the KDNP fraction is taking part in the report. I feel that you have been sitting here alone since the very beginning of the hearing of the report, and your fellow Members have only just been infiltrating. I find this truly unworthy of the dignity of this House. Nor can any family with foreign currency credit forget that in 2010 your group leader broke the forint after his speech and thanks to the level at which they paid their repayments. And they owe it to us that we have come to the point where you have taken small steps to make them pay a little less. But you didn't save the Feds. And one more thing: My fellow Member Tamás Harangozó said that the responsibility is not for the Mansion, but for the Fidesz-KDNP, that this thing could have happened at all. Thank you.
u2015-10-21-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches from our Members. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Peter Darák, Mr. Vice-President, Madam President, Madam Secretary! What my fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, said in his speech as a keynote speaker, I do not wish to repeat, in only one respect - as the head of the MSZP faction, perhaps the faction chair - that I too would like to personally thank the staff of the Kuria for the sacrifice they have done in 2014, which is clearly affected by this report. I would also like to express my view and perception that the Curia is actually a small island, where there really is a very high level of professional work going on, and in general I can say - and I would also like to stress this - that I thank all the judges of the Curia for their ability to preserve the integrity of this body. I think that he was right at the time of the Ukrainian representative of Hungarian origin who said that a country will have a generational withdrawal from the system of brakes and balances if the courts lose their integrity. Therefore, Mr President, the judges of the Curia and, by the way, all judges in the country have a special responsibility to prevent this from happening so that they can resist the expectations of the current power. Thank you all for doing this. I would also like to thank the leaders of the Curia for having always given correct and accurate answers to the questions that I have formulated either as a representative or as chairman of the Supervisory Sub-Committee of the Judicial Committee, and at the same time I would like to ask Mr President that the promises which he made to me in particular in the last letter in relation to the witness hearing exercise are really reviewed, reviewed, examined by the councils providing a legal unit, or by the case-law analysis groups, as it pleases. The point is that I would like to see an agreement reached in this regard, even because if that is the case and we can find a resting point in this, it would be beyond the call of the subcommittee. I will certainly ask Mr President for information on this, on what has been achieved. However, in addition to a few comments or questions that my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, has already made or made, I would also like to ask. I am pleased that Madam President is also in this Chamber, because, in fact, as far as my next remark and questions are concerned, it concerns Mr President as much as it concerns Madam President, and I can save myself from saying the same question or comment in the President's report. Of course, one of the main tasks of the Curia - as Mr President said and spoke about it for a long time - is to ensure the unity of rights. However, I would also like to emphasise that the only judicial organisation that can make the decision of a legal unit bindingly is the Curia. No other judicial forum can do that. And when we see, or at least hear that certain trends point to lower courts - whether there is a forensic level here, but I have to say, and to name the PKK here, from which I have heard quite a lot of feedback in this respect and in a negative sense - they make virtually such mini-legal decisions among themselves. I don't think that's a good thing. At a time when, in European forums, the validity of the Curia's single-law decisions is already being called into question for the reason that this violates judicial independence, because on this basis the judge must act on certain matters, I think that this is particularly true for lower-level judicial bodies. By the way, I'm a believer in legal unity decisions for practical reasons. In theory, however, I give a lot of truth to those who criticize the validity of this. But once again, this is a long-standing practice in Hungary, and for my part, I support and approve it. [[9.20]] What is not, however, that, if we say, in a lower court, decisions are made to guide judges on certain matters, in some cases, where to decide. Of course, no one makes this compulsory, but, let me put it to you, it is a leadership expectation that the judges who act will judge accordingly. I sincerely hope that the vast amount of identical information that has come to me in this regard is all false, but I am afraid that is not the case, so I am asking Mr President and Madam President from a professional point of view, from an administrative point of view, to get to the bottom of this and see if this is true. The problem is not that if, say, in a local court, say, a criminal group or group leader holds a consultation or does the same in the field of civil law. The problem is that if decisions are made either formally or informally, I would stress, either informally, to which I would like to get the support of the judges. I don't think that's healthy. To put it bluntly, I would also ask Mr President and Madam President to find out whether this is true. The other thing I would like to highlight in relation to conferences is that I am doing a little gleaning between the topics, so there is no correlation between the points that I am putting forward here. As far as conferences are concerned, we have just spoken with Minister Trocsányi recently that the world of science must always remain impartial, noch dazu, if the Curia, let's say, is involved as an organizer. And what I see, and I know that there is such an established practice in Hungary, is that the government will be invited to give an opinion on scientific conferences, either for an opening talk or for a scientific lecture on content, but I consider it unhealthy. I'm saying there are two options, and I'd like to point out that we're not talking about protocol events, because inviting the Minister, the Prime Minister, to, say, the day of the judges, is a natural thing. But if the Curia participates in the organisation of a scientific conference, let's say with a university, then I should be careful not to call a speaker who is a politician, or if I call such a speaker from a pro-government side, I will also call this from the opposition side, not because I want to make the event political, but in order to have a certain balance between this event and impartiality. You can't even let your shadow fall on it and fall on it. It is not necessary, of course, if you like to call a party politician, although it is extremely difficult to separate a party politician from, say, a Member of Parliament, but I can say that, say, the Legislative Committee, the Justice Committee, has opposition officials or members, on this basis I think it is possible to invite as much as, say, a State Secretary, or, let us say, to be specific, the Vice-President of Parliament responsible for legislative work. I think it would be good for us to pay attention to this, once again, taking into account the fact that the members of the government are basically invited to take part in protocolary events. Two more sensitive topics: one, which I would like to describe very briefly, because my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, has already made, this is the decision of the Curia in relation to the referendum. Mr President, I will not even go to the point of criticising the merits of the decision, although I would have a strong professional affinity for it, but I will criticize it and ask how this information could have happened. He couldn't get out of anywhere else, Mr. President. He couldn't get out of anywhere else. I do not believe that someone should be so lucky - and I will not re-examine what Tamás Harangozó said - that he was able to get there from somewhere in the countryside in just those five minutes and submit a referendum initiative, just that very day, at that very hour, just that five minutes. There is no such thing, and I believe that this would certainly justify one thing: that Mr President should launch an internal investigation within the Curia on how this information could have been avoided, and whether anyone in the Curia should be responsible for the fact that this information has been made available to this petitioner or even to someone within the scope of the petitioner. I think that the conduct of such an inquiry is a particular leadership task, and in a case where this decision is of particular political interest, because one political party - namely ours in this regard - is at the heart of its policy, so that this referendum can be carried out - it seems that one of the central elements of Fidesz and not of Fidesz must be paid particular attention to the fact that even the shadow of impartiality, or even the shadow of partyship, cannot be cast on the Mansion, because, as we have both said, it is still a body and an island that has kept its integrity 100%. In this regard, I would urge Mr President to take a decision on the unity of rights which would now be very justified in relation to the referendum, because we do not want to see either we or any other referendum initiative being submitted, and then every aspect of this process being attacked in court. Let's get this straight with a resolution from the law unit. The other one, which is a little more delicate, on the appointment exercise, Mr President, I would like to say in general that I do not consider it fortunate to be appointed by a judge who is not supported by the body to which he is appointed, especially if he gives an absurdum one or just his own vote, and there is still a candidate who has the support of the majority of the body in question. It may and may be justified to deviate from the order, but to deviate from the order of order, I think it is good that a given leader gives his reasons if he can give his reasons, because there is a serious public interest in knowing this, as I think there is a serious public interest in allowing public opinion to know the content of the tenders submitted for each management position and, where appropriate, the results of the votes. That is why I am asking Mr President, and I am also addressing this question to Madam President, whether they would be partners in creating legislation, whether by law or by administrative decisions, so that these proposals, these votes, the results of voting, and the departure from the order, will be made public and known to everyone. Because if so, then our faction will be happy to submit this, and will be happy to take part in a consultation with President, Madam President and even the Ministry of Justice, so that we can develop an appropriate good practice. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would once again like to thank all the judges and all the leaders of Curia for their activities in 2014 and the questions and points raised by me and my fellow Member, with great respect, Mr President's reply. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-16	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Répássy Róbert, Fidesz Group, will be taking the floor. I give you the floor.
u2015-10-21-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Justice Directors, Today we are listening to the reports of the actors and contributors of the judiciary, but I thought that I would like to say here, in the report by the President of the Curia, what I generally think is important in relation to the administration of justice. I would like to quote two sentences from the Fundamental Law of Hungary on which I am building my speech. The first sentence, according to Article 25 (1) of the Fundamental Law, is the Curia. So the Curia, as the leading body of the courts, is the leading court in the Fundamental Law. In accordance with Article 26 ( 1) The judges are independent and are subject only to the law and cannot be ordered in their judicial activities. Judges may be removed from office only for reasons and in accordance with the procedure laid down by a cardinal law. Judges shall not be members of a party or engage in political activities. - so far, quotes from the Fundamental Law. [[9.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Now I'm going to quote a few sentences that are suitable for disturbing the peace of mind. On 2 October, the former president of the Hungarian Socialist Party, Ferenc Gyurcsány commented on the so-called Sukoro case. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's been a long time.]] a judgment of the Court of First Instance. I quote from the MTI: because of what happened, Ferenc Gyurcsány said that he wished to raise his voice for the Republic of Hungary, which he believed was abused by Viktor Orbán, Péter Polt, Gábor Kovacsics acting prosecutor, Tünde Handó and the judge, Mária Somogyváriné Silent. The opposition politician told these people not to expect a calm retirement, because our actions will not be without consequences. After the fall of power, we open up the files, and today's accusers will be accused, and they will prove their guilt in a fair trial. '"' said Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Will Gyurcsány have a retirement year?]] However, I would also like to quote the sentences of a fellow Member sitting among us from January 2012. Also a MTI-news:. The Hungarian Judicial Association rejects the statement made by Gergely Bárándy in MSZP on Friday, in which the politician threatens Hungary's independent judges with subsequent retaliations, displacement from position and accountability. The Socialist politician said that after the fall of the Orbán government, the MSZP will use all its powers, influence and knowledge to remove the party commissaries delegated to the head and management of independent institutions from their post, no matter how long their official mandate lasts. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó and Zoltán Gőgös applaud.]] who can be proven to work on the basis of political orders, cannot avoid being held accountable. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's the right thing to do! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's right!]] In response to this in the statement of the Hungarian Judicial Association on Saturday, he wrote: "In the course of more than 20 years of Hungarian democracy, it is an unprecedented case for a Member of Parliament, former member of the National Council of Justice, to call independent judges political commissaries and threaten them with accountability by virtue of the power of law. At the same time, the Hungarian Judicial Association called the Members of Parliament, rejected Gergely Bárándy's statement, and called for him to refrain from manifesting himself in violation of judicial independence and against the judiciary. Dear House, These citations prove that in 2010 politicians of the government who left his office on the basis of the electorate's decision are constantly threatening the Hungarian judiciary, as it is part of their legitimacy, so the legitimacy of the MSZP and the former governing parties is part of the question of the independence of the prosecution and the court. The point of this position is that they weren't corrupt, only the justice system was protagonist against them. That's why they're threatening the court, and that's why they're calling their independence into question. Dear House, According to the Hungarian Socialist Party, only the court that gives him a favourable judgment is independent. Tamás Bellozó set a good example just now. In the praise of the Curia, he put in his criticism of a little doubt about the independence of the Curia, and the next time the Curia makes another decision that they don't like. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then you'll question the independence of the Curia even more. Dear House, Let it be clear to everyone here that the Hungarian Socialist Party praises the Mansion only to make the criticism of the National Court Office and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office seem more credible. So this is not about the Supreme Prosecutor's Office or the OBH judging the work and the work of the Curia differently. The view of justice as a whole is that, in the opinion of the MSZP, the view that the verdict they did not like was not independent. Dear House, The idea that an ex-politician, an ex-powerful practitioner, would question the independence of justice just because he's being held accountable, this politician, who has such views, is not a Democrat. Let us say calmly that democracy, democratic politics, includes accountability, accountability of politicians, is one of the key keys to democratic politics. Therefore, no matter whether a politician claims to be a socialist or a Democrat now, no matter what logo he puts on the party's flag, the respect for democracy begins by not threatening judges, by not threatening incumbent prosecutors and judges, especially those who are prosecuting us, because it is the job of a politician to fully represent his own protection in these proceedings, of course, within the constitutional framework, but beyond that, no threat can be expressed. Once again, I would like to state that judicial judgments are not uncritical. You can't say that the judge's truth is an absolute truth. At any time, it is possible to express an opinion on the judicial decision. But the judge's threat is forbidden, it's forbidden to threaten the judges. That's what I'm saying to Gergely Bárándy, and I'm telling Ferenc Gyurcsány, of course, if he were here to look the court leaders in the eye and tell them the threat he was willing to make at a press conference. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You'd like to tell me here.]] Dear House, Then I wish you good work and wisdom. Not only the Curia, but, of course, the National Court of Justice and the Attorney General's report, I propose to you. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-10-21-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group.
u2015-10-21-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I listened with pleasure and interest to the words of our fellow Member Répássy, who, perhaps for the first time, joined the debate not as State Secretary but as a Member. I agree, but I am missing one thing, my fellow Member, that, on the basis of what has been said, it may then arise whether Ferenc Gyurcsány will then have peaceful retirements, or if he can do everything he can. Because it's true what you said. But what does that mean? He told me that you can't threaten the judges. Ferenc Gyurcsány threatens the judges. Is something going on? Or is something going on with the real accountability of the period when he was Prime Minister? In addition to some procedures being initiated, there was no real big fish found in the net. Ferenc Gyurcsány is alive and well, he organizes a party, he encourages immigrants at the border, and then he complains that more people do not want to stay here. I do not want to quote all of your political activities now, obviously we all know how harmful this is for Hungary, except perhaps for DK voters, but that should be their job. So the point is, there should be something coming from this. So if you can't threaten judges - we can't, we agree - and someone will do that, then there should be a legal consequence; and as I said, not just this, but the procedure of the entire government of Ferenc Gyurcsány. So it's very nice to say these things, but we look forward to the consequences and the real steps of the Fidesz-KDNP government, real accountability. By the way, what you said can be agreed with, but without consequences, it's just nice words. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-21-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Vitányi, Member of the Fidesz Group, also applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-10-21-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to one thing from Gergely Bárándy's comment, which my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, has already mentioned, this is a question of partyism and impartiality. I do not dispute that this legal predecessor of the MSZP is rooted in MSZMP, because, as a one-party system, there was obviously partyism. And I find it particularly ridiculous that even participation in events should be judged in the light of partyism or impartiality. [[9.40]] I would just remind the men - the ladies are young, and they cannot remember - that in '98 before the election, Pál Solt visited Gyula Horn and asked him to do something impartially about speeding up court rulings. The other thing, this is a personal example: as an oppositionist, I talked to a high-ranking leader at an event, and when we talked, I saw him looking around all the time. I said, what's the problem? He says if I see an MSZP and he sees you talking to me, I'm gonna have to talk to him at least as much time, because I'm getting called in for a report on how I dared to speak to an opposition representative. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Grimlock: Is that what you're saying? What about the Hortobágy cases?]] That's not how it works. So I would suggest to the President of the Curia that you give his employees a guide, so that if you talk to a fidesz for five minutes, you can talk to an MSZP for at least five minutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-21-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-21-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have been watching these reports for many years, for a long time within the committee responsible, and I cannot say that I should be happy to find it, but rather with regret: the debates are always in the same room. Already very, very quickly, immediately after the first speeches, Members and ladies begin to talk not about the law, not about the judiciary, but primarily about politics. It is primarily about who judges the court according to what point of view. And the court struggles horribly, well felt, but at every time it struggles to be connected and attached to a political trend. There's nothing more dangerous than starting to classify judges as who's sympathetic. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right.]] There is nothing more dangerous to the court's justice system if we begin to classify judges even further in such a way as to see whether a judgment is given in accordance with alleged instructions, persuasion, influence. I think, honourable House, and I can honestly say that we have to move past that sometime. When it comes to such a report, it is my view that the law, the objectives of the justice system, all that society rightly and on the basis of, has met the kind of organisation that gives its report here in front of the House. If we want to aggregate, I must say that the Hungarian justice system is doing very well. In a very difficult climate where society as a whole is re-politicised, but even more so, political parties are trying to have an enormous impact on all organisations, including courts, there is the kind of restraint that the courts have shown so far, and I hope they will continue to be exemplary in the future. It would be very difficult to get past this, even if a judgment hurts one side or the other, if one or the other judgment is something that someone offends. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I have two professional remarks. I would argue with the view that it is right or wrong for a court to give direction to its own judges, not to make decisions, but to negotiate. Those which, there, within that court, seek to enforce those directions and ideas which otherwise comply with the law and the legal guidelines in a uniform manner. There's nothing more unpleasant than a lawyer going to a court where you can safely say that there's gonna be a goose chase here, because there may have been judgments like that, and now there's gonna be a verdict like that. I think that there is a need for some common case-law in this regard. I think even more so that we need the guidelines of the Curia. If we do not have these clear guidelines, then let us put our hands in place of our hearts, fellow Members: is the legislation that we are pursuing under any trend flawless? Are the laws that we are making really so flawless that we simply have to come up with the code of conduct, and we can say with absolute certainty that the judgment will certainly be good and proper? I'm afraid not. Very often, we have to realize ourselves, even after a few months, that something is in the law, in the law that we have adopted, well, it is not quite right, it does not fully meet the requirements of the whole legal system, so it needs to be changed. Is it not possible, then, for judges and courts to try to bridge the difficulties that we legislators may have in order to carry out a single law that is considered as fair to all? In particular, this is the case here, in foreign exchange matters. There is no truth in foreign exchange matters. It is quite clear that in foreign exchange matters it was the right foundation, which, from the outset - not because I belong to this alliance, but I think it is right - we followed, namely, to different degrees, but the unpleasant and even tragic consequences that have occurred have passed on several factors. Not one factor, several factors. There is no way to take this case to a single factor; it is even less possible for the court to do so. It is especially important for him to consider and properly consider. I therefore believe that the courts have also carried out good practice in this regard. It is difficult to say and difficult to expect the courts to replace any legal gaps. But what I do know is that they find the best possible course within the legal gaps. And I think the courts have done just that. Finally - after all, I am a politician myself - what I can now say to nothing but the phenomenon of Gyurcsány, I would like to do in one sentence. And now it's not because of him, not because of what he said or did, but in a much broader sense. Any manifestation, from any direction that is clearly intended to achieve some kind of judicial influence, shall be rejected in my opinion. But not to be rejected according to political beliefs, but to be rejected by one and all of us. If this is not the case, if there really is some sort of situation here, who accounts for whom, to what extent, if there is something to be said that weighs down as if these manifestations were actually favourable to my side or unfavourable, then I am convinced that the courts may face insurmountable difficulties. I think we shouldn't do that. At the same time, any intervention that goes beyond criticism is far-reaching and I must say that it must be rejected uniformly. Dear House, Overall, I think that one of the greatest merits of these accounts is that somewhere I hear it always over and over again - and I dare say this, based on many, now decades of experience, I dare say - it always has its meaning. It makes sense that at this point we can be certain that certain changes of direction are taking place, perhaps there are influences, but the intimacy of the courts in Hungary has been preserved so far. And I think that this should be our main goal in the next time. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech as a repeat speaker. You have the floor.
u2015-10-21-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am truly sorry that the debate that had been held in an otherwise cultured bed once again, with the speech of Mr Répássy and Mr Vitányi, has sunk into the usual Parliamentary dust. [[Dr. István Vitányi: You pushed him towards the dirt!]] I think that Mr Turi-Kovács has tried to pull me out of this, and the reason why I am going to turn out the last time is because I think that what he has said is worthy of having a debate about it. Before that, however, I have a few comments. One is that, fortunately, what I said at the time, was understood by the Judicial Association, too, that if someone claims that a judge is partying, if a judge acts on the basis of political orders, so if and if - once again - I say that if and if - then the Office is being abused, then there is nothing special about that. There's nothing out of the ordinary. [[9.50]] The Justice Association did protest about it, and I had an answer for it, and then they had a rejoinder. This was one of those controversial cases that you might have pointed out. I would like to point out some of the favours that you have done in this respect, although you have tried to paint a picture of the attitude of political parties in terms of judicial independence, Mr. Secretary of State, and I would also like to point out that I am truly sorry that your discharge as Secretary of State has led to the reaction that it seems that you need to parachute and radicalise better, not follow the style that you followed as Secretary of State, and that it was honorable to me. I'm truly sorry if you're changing that attitude right now. So, judicial independence - and now let's look at what really offends! When the new court law had not yet entered into force, there were three days left, Erika Szabó, then Minister of State for Territorial Administration and Elections of the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice, did not even have the office of the absent Registrar opened and entered there with his colleagues on the grounds of his rights as Secretary of State for Justice. Well, if that's not a violation of judicial independence, Mr. Secretary, then nothing. [[Dr. Répássy Robert intervenes.]] I'll continue, be patient, Mr. Répássy. Be patient. I can give you a lot of examples, I'm not sure this 15 minutes is gonna be enough, so I'll cut it short and just pick out the nicest ones. Then it is quite different, I think, when a Member says and says something about justice, and the more serious the problem is that the Prime Minister of the country does this and tries to influence and pressure the courts. Orbán did this when he said that, on behalf of the government, I must say - and I quote - that the decision of the court is scandalous, the scandal itself. The next day, the President of the Curia and the Hungarian Judicial Association issued a statement protesting the Prime Minister's speech. And then I'm gonna go on, just so I can give you one or two more sensual examples. I also quote that the Hungarian court has decided to give the Hungarian government the right to the higher prices against the Hungarian government, against the Hungarian government that has reduced the price of gas and electricity. He was basically trying to make a scapegoat out of the courts. I could list a few more of these sentences, such as the statement by Antal Rogán in the Rezesova case, on which, if I remember correctly, the Curia, OBH, the Jury Association, the Hungarian Bar Association also expressed their objection, and I could refer to the statement by Tibor Navracsics in writing, where President Darák said that it was unacceptable for him to intervene in the work and integrity of the Curia in this way. I think that many more examples could be taken, Mr Répássy, former Secretary of State, and I think it is a pity to go into this street, and it is a pity to embarrass the quality of this debate today with such stupid political filth, and I say once again, to put it in the dirt that you usually have in Parliament, of course, by assisting the opposition to be fair. As far as Mr Turi's speech is concerned, I would like to respond to this in substance, since he has made absolutely justified and fair arguments. Mr. Congressman, I do not dispute for a moment that the task of the judge, of the law enforcement officer - whether it is a judge in Curia or a local subordinate judge - is to keep track of the evolution of the case law, and at the appropriate forum, if you have a problem with it, to inform your administrative superior, if the situation is such that, say, you consider it necessary to amend the law, or, say, a local judge can turn directly to the Constitutional Court if, say, you have constitutional concerns about it. In fact, I think it is also right - just as you do - for group leaders to ambition their group or college leaders to sit down from time to time and agree professional positions with each other. There's nothing wrong with that. In fact, it would be a problem, Congressman, if it weren't for that. I'm probably the one who misinterpreted it, or you didn't understand exactly what I said. I hate that sentence terribly and hated it as a lawyer, but also as a congressman, when they say that this is what we do in the county, which means that it might be legal, maybe not, in this county, there's this kind of practice that everybody's sticking to. I don't like it in my county. I like a judge to judge each case according to his merit, and as he considers it appropriate according to his conscience and expertise, he does so, not according to an otherwise outlawed procedure. I raised objections to the practice, honourable Member, that this discussion, where the judges are obviously trying to convince each other of something on the basis of professional arguments, should be correctly followed by a leadership expectation, and that is the key point. There can be no need for leadership to discuss these matters, either by representing a majority position in these discussions, because this is a violation of judicial independence. There's only one way to do that if the Curia makes a decision on a legal unit. But even if one or one of the Curia's colleges gives a dormitory opinion, it is not even mandatory, it only applies, just as the bh-s, court decisions, ad hoc decisions also govern the judge. Meeting certain things as a leadership requirement is a problem. That's all I said. It's not a problem if they convince each other and say that what JudgeJames Gipsz said is really good for this type of case, and that's how it should be applied, and that's because he's convinced, and that's how it should be applied according to his conscience and professional knowledge; just don't expect it, I'll say it again. This is the one thing that we are having a debate with my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, and this is what I asked Mr President, Madam President, to see if these are really the only discussions going on, or if there are any leadership expectations that I have unfortunately heard as a Member. If you don't, I'm happy for you. But if there is, it must be avoided in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-21-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Róbert Répássy, Member Fidesz, applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-21-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Congressman Bárándy, I don't think you can tell the difference between criticism of judicial decisions and the threat of judges, because what I was talking about is a threat to judges, and neither you nor Ferenc Gyurcsány can allow that. Democrats do not threaten judges, no matter how convinced they are, for whatever reason they think that a judge, as you said, has acted on a party order, of course there should be some evidence for that. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We'll get it!]] Who was the one who ordered that judge? [[Zoltán Grimlock: Sooner or later we'll find out.]] who, in your opinion, acted on a party order, because it is indeed a felony. It's just that you forgot to prove these claims. Dear House, As one, I have rejected Ferenc Gyurcsány's threats on October 2nd and your 2012 threats as Secretary of State, and I assure you that I would do so as a private person. Honourable Congressman, Finally, you considered my speech to be disrupting peace in this room, and you said that it was stupid political filth that happened. Honourable Member, the stupid political filth will follow when you talk about the OBH's accounts and the accounts of the Attorney General, then the stupid political filth will begin in front of everyone and in front of them. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-21-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP, applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Two things, in fact, three. One is that you are probably able to interpret the Hungarian language. If it hadn't been for me in that sentence, you might be right, but you were. [[10.00]] Once again, the vast majority of people were able to understand this - the judges too. The other thing is, I'm sorry that you didn't say a word about the few quotes I said. At the most, criticism is permitted with regard to court judgments. Mr Secretary of State, I have to say that this is the custom in Hungary for politicians to criticize court judgments, but it is not certain that this is a good habit. There was a French Minister for Justice who followed the court leader for a much milder criticism and almost got into his ministerial seat by even raising criticism of a court judgment. I don't think it's a problem to have an opinion on judgments in public life. Why can't it be? However, one thing must be distinguished: if a person says a simple opinion about it, or if he puts that opinion in such a way and then puts it out - once again, he puts it out - when he still has the opportunity to press, let us say, a second-degree court decision. That was exactly the main problem with Antal Rogán. The problem wasn't that he said that he didn't like the release of Rezesova, but that he formulated it just before the second degree decision. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And very hard. I think you can tell the difference. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-30	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Peter Darák, President of the Curia, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Peter Darák: Yes, thank you.]] Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2015-10-21-31	Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for making your comments and your thoughts on justice during the annual report of the President of the Curia, in connection with the legal unity provided by the Curia. I am very pleased that today's meeting gives me the opportunity to express their thoughts mutually and to listen to them. But I must add that your interest in me doesn't give me the power to go beyond the constitutional framework. And the constitutional frameworks say that the President of the Curia will report to the Parliament once a year on the provision of the legal unit and the operation of the Municipal Council. While respecting this constitutional framework, I would like to point out that there is, of course, the kind of communication asymmetry between the legislator and the judiciary, on the basis of which the legislator can freely express his views and comments on any specific judicial decision, but the judge and the President of the Court cannot bring up a specific decision and make an opinion on it. This communication asymmetry also exists in this House. This therefore prevents me from responding to your specific comments by analysing and evaluating a decision. However, there are some points that I would like to thank you for. This is the conclusion expressed in the opinion of the faction that a fair decision cannot be taken in the work of the Curia without the involvement of legal science. I, too, wholeheartedly confess this principle and strive to ensure that the decisions of the Curia can be made with as serious a legal basis as possible. I would like to point out that the report does not deal in detail with the assessment of election cases because election cases did not raise a problem of legal unity in 2014. Although we were afraid that the powers of redress to be placed on the courtboards in connection with municipal elections could cause such problems, we found in the assessment of the appeal applications that the courts were of high quality in the course of the handling of the appeal applications. Thank you and I agree with the comments that have shown that the Curia and the judiciary are doing much to maintain the rule of law, a democratic rule of law. In this spirit, he preserves the bastions of judicial independence and retains the values that have always characterized Hungarian justice. Perhaps I can express an opinion that these peculiarities of justice do not evolve overnight and are not lost overnight. Therefore, if the work of a specific judicial council, which is carrying out a case-law activity to the satisfaction of the public, is recognised, then the same council is not likely to lose its commitment to these values overnight; even if we read in the press one moment that Hungary is a rule of law, and at another moment the reaction that a political decision has been taken. Thank you very much for the comments and thoughts on the issue of foreign exchange credit. I would like to point out that the focus on foreign exchange transactions in Mansion is not fading. We are constantly discussing the details raised by the definition of the legal consequences and some practical questions. The Curia strives not to give room for the creation of decisions on a mini-unit of rights, since the provision of constitutional obligations, the rule of law and the unity of rights is the responsibility of the Curia, and the lower-level courts can give such guidelines of principle with effect throughout the country only if the Curia gives it some weight, for example, when choosing decisions in principle. I believe that there is a need for professional leaders to provide professional assistance to judges at all court levels. If this professional assistance appears as a driver's expectation as expressed by the Member, I do not think it is right. If there are such phenomena in the justice system, I will take action against it. When selecting the lecturers of the scientific conferences, after the comment specifically on the events in Curia, I can reassure the Member that there has never been and will be no consideration of the political commitment of the rapporteur, it is only the professional level that determines the invitations. I would like to draw attention to the publication of the referendum decision, and perhaps to the public's attention that these decisions will be added to the Curia's website immediately after their adoption, as a result of the provision of the President of the Curia. So anyone who wants to know about the abolition of the moratorium can find out primarily on the website whether or not the parallel initiative moratorium has ceased. I would like to point out that the first one of my letters to two representatives of the MSZP faction was not promised a legal unit decision in a referendum case. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]] I indicated that the question was left to the study of the head of the administrative college and that, as a result of the letter, no further action had been taken because the decisions had been taken to decide on the issue of principle. As I have already indicated in my previous annual accounts, the Curia will make a decision on a legal unit only if different judicial decisions or the orientation of judges make it necessary. But if the Curia has a principle in a concrete decision, it means that there is no single law issue yet to be decided. As regards the appointment practice, I would like to indicate that the Curia always follows the order laid down by the Fundamental Law and the Law of the Court of Justice. [[10.10]] A kind of internal public is fully respected with regard to the appointment exercise. If the applicant does not receive the necessary board support, the application shall be evaluated by the National Judicial Council for prior agreement under the relevant rules. In front of the National Judicial Council, I would like to assure the honourable Members and gentlemen, there are always professional reasons to justify a management decision to initiate a departure from the order. I believe that the constitutional frameworks that Parliament has established for such executive mandates require the confidence and the presumption that bodies that are entitled to discuss these issues are fully responsible and that when their prior consent to the appointment is given, this is done on a sufficient basis. Of course, there is no reason why we should make judicial applications more public. However, this may have negative consequences. Hungarian judges are not used to measuring in public. Current applications also show that a large number of candidates are rare for a given post. And I do not want such a solution to continue to have an effect that discourages judges from applying for leadership. I therefore think that, while I have listened with great respect to your question and made detailed notes on them, there is no reason for further consultation with the President of the Curia on these issues at a later stage, and for possible legislative changes improving the work of the judiciary to be prepared together, but in the context of my current report I cannot provide a further more detailed answer. Thank you.
u2015-10-21-32	Thank you, Mr President, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows that the President of the National Court of Justice will be B/6163 in 2014. H/6385, which was submitted by the President of the National Court of Justice, and which was adopted by the President of the National Court of Justice. Joint general debate on the proposal for a decision, submitted by the Judicial Committee, pending its conclusion. Dear Parliament, Allow me to pay special tribute to Dr. Tünde Hando, President of the National Court Office, author of the item on the agenda and the staff of the Office, who will personally monitor our work. First, I give the floor to Mrs Tünde Hando, President of the National Court Office, author of the report. Here you go, Madam President.
u2015-10-21-33	Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin with the thought of Pascal: The truth demands that we follow the righteous, and the need to follow the strongest. Law without power is powerless; power without justice is tyranny. They oppose the powerless rule of law, for there are always evils; they accuse wrongful violence. Therefore, justice must be linked to force, so either we must make the just one strong or we must make the strong one fair. iii The third closed year of the court organisation, which meant that we all understand, understand the significance of how effective a court organisation can function, how well it can serve the constitutional obligation it has assigned to the Fundamental Law, because this system is operated by people, and we must operate this system according to rules. When I talk about the operation of the court organisation last year, I think that the place in itself where we are is also symbolic. In Hungary, the 19th edition is published in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the end of the 20th century, a system of rule of law and division of power has been established that still exists. This symbol system appeared in the 19th century. End-of-the-century construction projects, too. There is Parliament and Parliament, on the other side of the square, the Curia building, which expresses the principle of power-sharing in Montesquieu that the state stands on three feet, has three foundations for the state: executive power, legislative power and judicial power. The first court law has already expressed this. Many of our colleagues currently work in such patina buildings as the National Assembly, but a XIX. A hundredth-century judge would be very surprised to see what today's judges do in the building of today's courthouse. Today, a judge will decide and deal with as many cases in a month as the 19th. In the first century, he was able to treat me all year round, like a judge in Curia, a judge in a court or judge. In this connection, it should also be pointed out that the Metropolitan Tribunal has managed to solve a centuries-old problem over the last three years, since the backlog of the metropolitan judges is now around the national average or below the national average. This is an incredible thing, since, even in the early 1900s, there was a long article, and court officials complained about the terrifying strain on the judges in the capital. In 2011, this ratio was also 3-7 times higher in terms of the capital and the countryside. This is the task of which, in order to implement and settle, this change of judicial model has occurred in the first place, so that these inequalities can also be balanced so that customers, citizens, can have access to the court in an appropriate way. The report shall contain detailed information on the performance of the court organisation. I'd like to highlight a few of these. In particular, there were 24 percent more cases in the courts in 2014 than in 2011. I have to say this again: a quarter more cases than in the last three years. This represents a huge exposure for the court organisation. Overall, 1.46 million cases were brought to the courts. Meanwhile, the number of judges has increased by only 0.8 percent over the last three years. Yet, despite the 24 percent increase in cases, we were able to complete 25 percent more cases than in 2011. Can you imagine a production company or any other public body capable of processing such a large amount of cases and cases with the level of judgment, thanks to the work of the Curia, increasing? This performance was due to the legislative amendments taken into account by the legislator, so that we have always sought to express our voice in respect of legislative amendments which concern the effective functioning of the court with regard to procedural time limits, negotiating obligations, the enforceability of the parties' adversarial rights, timeliness. It has also been a very important step forward that internal resources have been transferred and a 21st EDF has been transferred. We tried to organise the administration of the courts along the centuries of competence-based work organisation. The 11,000 court workers have made tremendous efforts to make sure that the case dumpings that have reached us over the last three years are able to process them in such a way that the general public can perceive the least of this. I refer here to the court cases, of which a year has come from in 2013, but I can also refer to the foreign exchange credit lawsuits, which have doubled civil law cases in court before the courts, and have been seriously dealt with by the courts at the level of court and district court. [[10.20]] Why are the results of the court organisation important? Law gradually enters many areas of life that were previously regulated by religion or by morality alone. In modern states, everyday life is determined by the rule of law, as a result of which the arrangement of personal and workplace conflicts takes place legally in a court of law. The scope of cases to be brought and to be brought before the courts is increasing. So it doesn't matter what citizens think about the operation of the court, what they think of the state, what the legal system and what the courts judge. And indeed, all of us, all three branches of power, must acknowledge that these three branches of power are not separated in the minds of citizens. They think of us together as the state. Therefore, it is very important that whatever debate the three branches of power have with each other, let us maintain an objective and fair attitude towards each other that ensures that we can remain credible to the citizens for whom we exist at all, for whom we work. In recent years, we have been working to ensure that the courts provide services on the basis of which people's trust in justice is maintained and even increased in the case of millions of clients who turn to them each year. Moreover, society is waiting not only for cases to be dealt with in a way, and people are increasingly expressing this, today it is not just the authority of the court, but it is constantly coming to us from the citizens regarding critical comments, wishes, needs for operation. It is therefore very important that courts, like other public bodies, and even the private sector, can improve the quality of service. As a service, I am not thinking, of course, of the content of court judgments, but of course, of accepting customers in a manner worthy of us to speak to them fairly, to respect their sensitivity, to pay attention to them, not to make it impossible for them to enforce their needs in court, but to make it easier for them to understand what is going on in court. There's been a lot of progress over the past year. That's what the report says. I point out a few things that are already in the 21st century. They're showing us a century. At the end of last year, we launched an electronic administration portal, through which we provide an SMS and e-mail service, in which registered customers can receive direct notification of the relevant events of their case before the court. A litigation calculator is available to enable clients to choose which court to refer their case if they have such a competent choice of court. It is possible to submit complaints electronically. Our national programmes represent a service that indirectly increases the quality and effectiveness of the case. I highlight here the Open Court programme, which, of course, judges and court secretaries do on their own initiative. In the framework of this, we addressed 37,000 students last year, but we also found parents' working communities. This is the programme by which we try to help the country, regardless of the social situation, to understand the law and access to the law. It is important, and the witness care program has also been discussed, in which we are also trying to help people who have become victims or who have little knowledge of the court and who may be concerned about us to take the stand to take the stand as witnesses. A similar programme is judicial mediation, in which we aim to guarantee a new legal culture and long-term immunity from litigation for customers. But such a priority programme is the programme of child-centred justice, in which we targeted judges and court secretaries in the field of criminal and family law, we initiate legislative amendments, we hold trainings to receive this vulnerable social group in such a way that we can serve it and, of course, deliver judgments of a quality that leave no doubt about themselves. Many times you hear arguments that the court does not have to pursue a service approach, it wishes the satisfaction of the customers, because the unsuccessful party will always be dissatisfied, who is condemned, always dissatisfied. There is an expression in Anglo-Saxon law, due process of law, which can be translated into procedural justice. If the judge, in accordance with the procedural rules, takes account of the interests of the clients, the human dignity of the accused and the victims is respected during the trial, at the time of the judgment, even after the most serious punishment or lost trial, people may feel that a just decision has been made. And customers often voice this, even if contented sounds do not penetrate as high as disgruntled sounds. This includes, for example, the fact that 80% of district court and civilist cases are not appealed to by the parties, so that the judgments will rise to legal force at first instance. So when I talk about the settlement of court careers or the development of court facilities, the renovation of buildings, I am not only in the interest of 11 thousand people, but also in the interest of the justice system, and thus indirectly I am defending the dignity of the Hungarian state. When we develop the court system, we serve the entire society, the nation. As Ferenc Deák said, he is happy with the home where the judge's judgment does not only bring justice, but, by trusting his office and his person, he also provides relief to the parties. Let me give you an example. The new Debrecen District Court building was recently handed over. The old building was considered perhaps the worst court in the country, last painted in 1985. This was the year Mikhail Gorbachev became Secretary General of the Communist Party in the Soviet Union. During the negotiations in the new building, there was a former defendant who, at the trial, told the judge that in this building, Your Honor, I have nothing to say but the pure truth, and I must confess that I have committed this crime. That is why it is important to know what building we operate in, what equipment we operate in, and what respect we receive from the other two branches of power, how much people can trust and trust us. Last year, I concluded my speech by thanking my colleagues for their conscientious work and giving us such results that we are doing better year after year. I can't say anything else to my colleagues this year, because our constantly improving indexes allow these results to be recorded on the European Union scene today, as Hungary can be ranked at the forefront of court organisations before the European Union, on the European Scoreboard and on the Justice Scoreboard. As I said, our improved results have a major role to play in the fact that the legislator has taken into account the opinions of the courts when preparing the legislation. Thank you for your cooperation so far from the legislator, and I would like you to continue to take into account your proposals based on the professional experience of the courts. I also thank customers, legal professions and citizens for their cooperation so far. Thank you for the suggestions that have been made to improve our work, because we always strive for these opinions, even when there are feelings behind them, to take them seriously and to make use of them in our work. [[10.30]] Dear Parliament, I'm standing here alone, but the report isn't about my work, it's about the work of the court organisation. The 270 pages that I have brought to you and which are available to the whole country on the central website of the courts give an account of the work that has been done, the efforts that the court organisation has made last year. I urge you to support our further work by adopting this report. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-21-34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee, as rapporteur for the proposal for a decision, indicated in advance that it did not wish to speak in the debate. The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-21-35	Mr President, Dear House, The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 76. Pursuant to paragraph 8 (c), the President of the National Court of Justice, the President of the OBH, submitted the report of the National Assembly for 2014. The Judicial Committee, as a committee responsible for tasks and powers, discussed the report at its meeting on 28 September 2015 and supported the adoption of the report. In 2014, the National Court of Justice Office carried out the administrative tasks of the courts for the third year. I believe that the period has given the organisation sufficient certainty and, as in previous years, significant progress has been made in a number of areas. I believe that the timing of judicial proceedings is the primary measure for citizens from the point of view of the organisation of the courts. There have been many criticisms in the courts over the last few years about the length of the lawsuits, which pose a threat to predictability and overall legal certainty. It is clear that national timeliness data continued to improve in 2014. As the report shows, the courts completed three percent more cases on arrival and five percent more cases on litigation. The number of lawsuit terminations exceeded arrival at all jurisdictional levels. What is very important is that at the end of 2014 there were 13 percent fewer cases in the courts than in 2013. I would like to point out, in particular, that the number of criminal cases in the judiciary has decreased by 27 percent. In order for the Court's indicators to improve to this extent, a serious change of perspective was needed. As the report shows, thanks to the organizational development project, there were forms of cooperation that allowed colleagues to work on the renewal of the organization as an equal player. I think that this kind of collegiality can serve all offices, for example. CHAPTER XXI The modern office of the century included technical innovations, which were not lacking in the OBH in 2014. For example, the online perusal calculator, SMS and e-mail service indicating the progress of cases, has also been developed. It is important and extremely forward-looking that, with the implementation of the national construction of the judicial mediation network, the judicial mediation procedure has become available at all major district courts, and that, thanks to witness care and the child-centred justice programme, those groups can take part in the proceedings under more dignified conditions. Speaking of circumstances, I would like to point out that in 2014 the XVIII ended. 1 and 19 modernisation and extension of district courts. In addition, in December 2014 the case-law was initiated in accordance with Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Tölgyfa utca, district, in the Margit House, the project's implementation is perhaps the most significant result of 2014. There are a number of ongoing investments in the district courts, from Debrecen to Cegléd, from Szeged to Dunakeszi the residents can expect the renewal of the court and its surroundings. Finally, allow me, on behalf of the National Assembly, to thank the National Court of Justice, which, by exercising its powers of opinion and legislative and proposal, has helped us on several occasions, thus making the legislation even more high-quality. In the light of what has been said, it is not surprising that, in agreement with the committee's proposal for a decision, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-21-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Teleki, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-21-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Madam President, The report of the National Court Office is an impressive collection of statistics. She presented these figures in detail at the Justice Committee meeting, as well as here at the plenary session. Of course, everyone is pleased with the data on speeding up procedures and minor backlogs, and it is also welcome that, according to the report, there are no counties in which they have outstanding backlogs. These are all good indicators, but at the same time I would like to draw your attention to the fact that less is sometimes more. The report contains thousands of detailed but not significant information from the responses to each portfolio search to the number of delegations travelling abroad. However, the structural situation of substantive evaluation, processes and justice is not reflected in the report. This can be said, for example, about the timeliness of procedures. We do not dispute that, in recent years, the National Court of Justice Office, as in the past, has made considerable efforts to reduce backlogs and speed up proceedings. However, it should also be pointed out that the good results in the report have been largely achieved through legislative amendments. Thus, the report welcomes the fact that it is no longer mandatory to negotiate, for example, when the fine is changed to a detention clause and that the judicial capacity thus released can be used to resolve other cases. In matters of foreign exchange credit, a change in the laws of jurisdiction would not render the Metropolitan Tribunal inoperable. While the report regards as a result the extent to which the role of court secretaries has widened and how many cases they can act in place of judges, the MSZP does not consider this to be a reassuring direction of development at all. In keeping with the issue of timeliness, as in the previous Commission debate on the report, I would like to draw the President's attention to the slow administration of the register of civil society organisations. In addition, in my view, there are problems not only with the registration of civil society organisations, but also with the fact that, in many cases, the decision to terminate is delayed, which means that if one of the civil society organisations or foundations wants to terminate their association for various reasons, this could take almost a year from my experience. I think that remedying this situation is very important. Unfortunately, the bulk of the data and tables describing the successes cannot hide the fact that the court system is still underfunded. Moreover, this is acknowledged by the report itself, 76 percent of the total court budget goes to wages and contributions, while neither judges nor judicial staff have received any meaningful wage development in the last seven years. We believe that settling the course of justice in this regard would be very important, since we can say for sure that judges are underpaid at European level. [[10.40]] It is the joint responsibility of the National Assembly and the National Court of Justice to provide a career model in which the conditions for an honest, fair continuation of adequate wages and judgmental work can be guaranteed. I believe that this would be important not only for the judges themselves, but also for the vast majority of society. The report contains a number of astounding data in relation to the personal situation of the judicial organisation system. The table on page 93 shows that 84 authors are missing from the courts, but the report does not provide the reason for this significant deficit. It is clear, however, that they are unable to accept successful participants in the competition, because only 65 of 84 successful candidates were accepted. In other words, the slow admission process can't wait for the most dedicated, and this adds to the lack of a writer. It would be good for the report to show the degree of turnover, namely how many authors - quoted in quotes - will get down and how many will reach the appointment of the court secretary. The regulation of judicial appointments is one of the most controversial elements of the new structure established after 2010. We are particularly opposed and opposed to the fact that the President of the National Judicial Office has the opportunity to influence the outcome of judicial applications. Although Madam President was at the committee meeting basing this on its importance, the figures in the report are far from reassuring in this respect. The report states the following. A total of 508 people applied for the 114 judicial applications evaluated in 2014, and the President of the National Judicial Office made his decision in agreement with the ranking of the Judges in the case of 91 applications - 79 percent of the 115 applications he evaluated. However, this also means that, in 21 percent of the proposals, Madam President has taken a different decision from the ranking of the Judges. This is not a negligible number, and this means that, despite the complicated decision-making mechanism, the President of the National Court of Justice may eventually have a significant impact on the decision on who can or may not be a judge. Of course, there are forums of opinion, but there is a fear that their role will become more formal. Even now, there are negative reactions to the decrease in the weight of the judiciary. As you know, members of the Szombathely Tribunal's judicial council have thus protested, according to a press conference, that their role as commentators has become vacant, that their body will be bypassed by the President of the National Court of Justice in connection with a judicial appointment case. There were also interesting matters regarding leadership appointments that ruffled the moods within the judiciary. The most prominent case, which is also famous in the national media, is the appointment of the new President of the Gyula Tribunal. Madam President, at the head of the second-degree court, he appointed a candidate with only three years of judicial experience as the first judge of the county of Békés. In the professional lodges, it is believed that a judge, having completed all the professional steps, in his mid-40s or so, has a meaningful opportunity to win a position as President of the Forensics. It is extremely unusual for a newly appointed judge to be a junior judge in a court of law within three years, no matter how talented he may be. However, Madam President's lucky choice had so much time not only to get into county court but also to become an unprecedented leader. Overall, on the basis of the 2014 report, there are no doubt positive changes and remarkable results. The Hungarian Socialist Party thanks both the judges and the prosecutorial staff who helped them in 2014 for their work, but the experience of the last months in 2014 has not reduced either, but rather increased the concerns expressed earlier by the establishment of a new judicial administrative structure. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support the adoption of the report, as in previous years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-21-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Madam President, Dear Presents, Madam President began her report by quoting Montesquieu and the three branches of power; we also consider it very important to separate this, and we consider it very important to have independence of the judiciary. On Monday, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary held a thematic day here in Parliament, the essence of which was to draw attention to the development of corruption over the past few years, and my fellow Member János Volner was talking about the attempts that Fidesz has made over the last five years to gain decisive influence in the bodies involved in the administration of public affairs, and he is trying to subdue them to his political influence. And János Volner here mentioned, among other things, the experiments that affected the courts. There was some debate on judicial independence on the previous item, and I preferred to say these problems here, and there was a serious debate here about who is trying to criticize and influence the functioning of the courts. For our part, we consider it extremely important that no one can do this, influence it in any way. We felt that there had been constant attempts by Fidesz over the past five years to control and intimidate judicial power, Mr Répássy spoke of how bad it is to intimidate judges. I just think that this has happened in the past, because when the system of retirement of judges was changed from one moment to the next, without any reason, they did want to raise doubts in the judges. Yes, I feel that they also wanted to excite fear in the judges, that, yes, we can do anything, we do want to put pressure on you, if you do not act in the future, then anything can happen here. But in the same way, he tried to influence the appointment of judges when he wanted to give an advantage in the appointment of court secretaries who were indeed assigned to the Ministry of Justice and spent their practice there. Where, obviously, if someone is in the Ministry of Justice, we cannot say that he will be completely independent of any political influence, because the Ministry of Justice is, in itself, a political institution or politically strongly influenced institution. So when someone spends their practice here and takes advantage of the other judges, I feel that this is also a kind of a factor, it is true, that it is a long-term driving and influencing factor, but it will move them in the direction of political influence at some level. And I think it is very important that the things that Madam President has said in this regard, and that Peter Darák has also said about judicial independence in this regard, are indeed preserved, and that the autonomy of the powers can fully function in relation to the judicial authority, and that there is no political influence on the judicial case-law and the judicial system itself, and that the self-organizing administration of the judges themselves should prevail. It is very important here, and the previous speaker also mentioned that there are problems with this, and here, yes, the case in Gyula and Vas County certainly deserves to be mentioned, when the judicial self-government is less effective, and it is rather the upper hand that sometimes takes place. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has explained earlier, and has always said in recent years that judicial organisations need as much independence as possible. Therefore, we have already suggested that it would be a good thing if we could not influence the functioning of the courts in the Finance Act and lay down in the Fundamental Law itself what percentage of the current budget and in what order the courts would be entitled to, because then it would not be possible to influence the courts by wondering how we will be able to include in the budget how much we will be able to determine. So I think that if the budget were determined by virtue of the Fundamental Law, judicial independence would be even greater and more complete. Speaking of judicial independence, it is a very important point, and it has been said several times today that judges should not engage in any political activity, with the exception of a second job or other occupation. [[10.50]] What do the judges need? Obviously, it is necessary, because this is one of the highest systems where the law should prevail, here the most intelligent, smart, qualified people and lawyers should be avoided, which is why the career model of judges is very important. I regretted the fact from the President's report today that she did not place sufficient emphasis on this and did not express enough emphasis on it in the 270 - page report itself. In the 2013 report, I felt that this was highlighted, but what was missing at the time by the President, which is the sidelines of the budget for the work of the courts, I feel that what she missed was far from being achieved. Some small progress has been made, such as the wage development of secretaries by 10 percent, which I think is rather low, but also the remuneration of judges, which has been emphasised by the President in recent times, has not been mentioned. It has obviously been said here before, and previous speakers have also raised this problem, that in the territory of the European Union it is the Hungarian judges who are most underfunded, the judges in Hungary are least paid. However, in the same way we can talk about prosecutors, but this is not the item on the agenda right now, which is why I am not mentioning this; and before the adoption of the Finance Act, when Jobbik Hungary proposed 30 percent wage development for judges and prosecutors, we also said that this is also a problem, because if the wage development of judges and prosecutors takes place by 30 percent, we are still fighting to the last place at the level of the European Union, in a dead race with Lithuania, and we are going to prevent Bulgaria alone. Then we have received the answer from Secretary of State Répássy about the wage tensions that this will cause in Hungary, because we have to compare that the wages of others, let us say, are under the bottom of the frog, in a bad way, and how we can increase the salaries of judges, then how much the pay of nurses is. Yes, I couldn't answer that at the time, because Mr Répássy said his opinion at the time as a closing point, so I can now respond to it a year later, in the sense that we should not compare judges with others, compare it with that which is an independent form of power, and that is how wages should appear. In fact, with the State Secretarys, ministers, and the rest, the Secretary of State will not tell you there - he will surely reply - that the salary of a State Secretary or a Minister cannot be so high, because the salary of nurses in Hungary is so low. So it is from this point of view that we are talking about separate powers, and here we have to look at this in this regard. Madam President, he spoke about the opinion of the legislation. We consider it very important and, in my view, it is very useful for Parliament, as legislator, that the courts, the appropriate professional organisations, should give an opinion on the draft laws that will come before us. This is very important, because I think that this is the professional area, this area where we get the most precise, correct and least influenced opinions, and I think that this is the area where we should listen best to the courts and their opinions. I would consider it important here that, as soon as this information comes back, there is a very short time for the judiciary to express its opinion. It is very rare to be able to give an appropriate professional opinion, because when they receive these, it is one or two or three days or very short time that they could give an opinion on this, since until it reaches the lower levels, it is obvious that a certain time will pass. It would be good to give more time to judges and judicial self - administration organisations here to express their views. I think that if a little longer time was available here, the legislator might be able to get even more professionally better opinions, which could be better taken into account. While I was talking about benefits earlier, I definitely see progress in what has been said in the budget debate over the last year, and I noted with a critical view to the courts, not with regard to the work of the courts, but with regard to remuneration, that there are other benefits that are included in the law, but that are not implemented in relation to them, or that there is no possibility for them to be used in terms of the budget. I think that this is a step forward in any way, because the President mentioned in her report that, on the one hand, they want to take account of it and that there are procedures under negotiation that allow judges to receive language exams as a substitute, that there should be an opportunity to be extremely advanced, that there should be a possibility for them to be judges at a higher level and that there should be progress in this regard. In this context, it is clear that there is progress in this regard, and I saw in the report that this is more highlighted in the remuneration system. In my view, however, the basic issue I was just talking about is the 30 percent wage development, by no means neglecting it. So here is the adoption of second, third and second degrees; I think that there is certainly progress in these matters. It is obviously a huge task for the courts, because a great deal of legislation has been changed over the past period, and I think most of all that the entry into force of certain chapters of the Civil Code has obviously contributed to the amazing increase in the file that Madam President has been talking about. It is indeed a shocking number that the scope of the case files to be dealt with has increased by 24 percent from 2013 to 2014. I think that the courts have done well in this, and I think that we should also thank every judge acting, every judge judging, every judge who participated and did so, because really, as we have heard, the number of courts has increased by 0.8 percent, and compared to this a 24 percent increase in the burden of filing, I think that in any case it can only be congratulated that the courts have managed to resolve this. I think it is very important, which Madam President pointed out, that there is an extremely significant acceleration process in Budapest's judgment and that their backlog has been very much processed and reduced to the national average level. What I would like to talk about is electronic procedures, which is also mentioned in the report, which also greatly accelerate the work of courts and judicial practice. I think that this is still in some ways a child's way, and based on the reports of former lawyers, their work and the work of clients are, in many cases, only difficult, and the cases that could have been done earlier, let's say, within an hour or two, will be a lawyer's work for 5-6 hours. They're obviously not happy about this. I think that in a couple of years, all sides will get caught up in this. Obviously, there is also a need for some kind of help from the courts. I am thinking, for example, of the various electronic administration areas, whether it be the company procedure, whether it be the registration of associations, of different programs, and this is a huge problem for lawyers to find out what kind of program they should get, always a different program. The program with which the company court operates is not able to appear on the association side, and this is certainly in the field of implementation, where lawyers work, is difficult in very many cases, with additional work and additional payment. Obviously, I think that this is only a matter of time, and in a few years, both sides will be very well involved in this, and this will work well, and I very much hope that in the future electronic administration will benefit both courts and customers, and will reduce the period of judgment. [[11.00]] Madam President, you mentioned the Open Court programme. Obviously, that's another important question. We also have the view that people should have insight, that young people should have insight into the work of the courts. Obviously, a lot of people imagine it as what they see in movies, in court movies, in American movies. Obviously, the Hungarian procedures are completely different, so in many cases they are surprised, and that is why it is very good to have a little insight into the work of the courts. This also means that they will judge the work of the courts differently and will certainly have greater insight. So what I see is that, in some respects, there is certainly a movement, especially in the area of the backlog, the Metropolitan Court, the proper handling of increased turnover. I believe that this is a step forward in any way compared to the past, but we cannot be fully satisfied with this. So the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will develop its position on what decision it will make on the President's report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-21-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Speech by Mr András Schiffer, lead speaker of the LMP Group. Before I give the floor, honourable Member, allow me to give the chair to Vice-President István Hiller. Thank you for your cooperation. Keep up the good work. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2015-10-21-41	Welcome. We'll get back to work. Mr. Team Leader has the floor, please.
u2015-10-21-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Madam President, In the first place, before mentioning four essential elements of the report here, I do not think it is useless to say a few words about the political environment. First of all, I would like to express my hope that the exchange of the judicial wallet in weeks or in recent days does not foresee that, where appropriate, the government intends to put further pressure on the judiciary. I very much hope that the exchange of State Secretary does not mean that the Hungarian Prime Minister believes that he would otherwise be involved in the functioning of the judiciary. I also hope that Madam President will continue to resist any attempt to intervene in the functioning of justice from a government or political point of view. I would also like to mention here that I would expect the LMP to expect both the President of the OBH and the President of the Curia to reject it as strongly as possible when any party gives an opinion on the case-law of judges either on the government side or from the opposition, and to defend independent judicial activity. I find it amazing that in the last six to eight years, the most diverse parties, apart from the LMP, have the courage to comment on specific judicial decisions, to express opinions that are completely offensive to judicial decisions, which undermine the authority of the court. I think that we believe that the independence of the judiciary is part of the fact that members of government, Members of Parliament, party leaders refrain from criticising the case-law work, and that the case-law work is criticised. I note here that LMP has also tried to maintain a moderate attitude over recent years in relation to the decision of other actors in the judiciary. The other circumstance I would like to address is the budgetary situation of the court organisation. In the last year, and not only in the report, but also in the budgetary debate, in the budget debate of 2015, we said that it would be necessary not only to develop salaries, but also to increase staff capacity in the courts, in particular with regard to foreign exchange credit litigation, and more recently with regard to the treatment of the various small-investor actions that are likely to increase due to developments in the last half-year. Cases, areas, in particular because of insufficient financial regulation, have been brought to the courts which cannot be dealt with within a reasonable period of time under the budgetary conditions of the current or past years. Of course, we would be pleased if the President of the OBH also expressed an opinion on Parliament's current affairs - I am thinking of the migration crisis - that, on the basis of the various developments and turns of the migration crisis, she is trying to reach out to the jurisdictional rules of the courts. I think that it is unacceptable for the predictable distribution and predictable functioning of justice to drag the jurisdiction of the different courts in rapid procedures and in response to current developments. We would like the OBH to give a clear opinion to the government and Parliament in this regard. Dear Parliament, On the one hand, as regards the functioning of the judicial system, I would like to confirm what my fellow Member Gyure has just said. Indeed, the numbers are talkative and progress is made in terms of backlogs, for which the National Court Office is obviously also recognised. At the same time, I would like to say that various decisions are coming in order and on assembly lines, which condemn Hungary to the Strasbourg Court, and what I would like to point out in particular is that these reprehensible decisions - 24 cases last year - were due to unreasonablely prolonged cases, many of which have been handed down after a long period of time, and a number of these are court proceedings for labour litigation, which is also the narrower area of the President's area of expertise. I think that, in particular, when the legislation of the last few years has seriously reduced the protection of the labour law of Hungarian workers, in very narrow cases Hungarian workers may hope for redress in courts, and it is particularly important that, at least in these narrow cases, people get their legitimate benefits within a reasonable period of time, where appropriate, the illegal employer's measure should be quick to obtain a remedy. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in recent years, these unreasonablely prolonged labour lawsuits have affected not only companies, not only the competition sector, but also the public sector in the past year or two. I am thinking of, for example, the KLIK or other public institutions employing a large number of public workers and, unfortunately, civil servants and public workers at the same time. I am thinking, for example, that in recent months, there have been increasing complaints about late or not paying the Jubilee Prize to teachers. It is in the legitimate interest and expectation of Hungarian citizens, Hungarian workers and civil servants that judicial proceedings serve their interests. I would also like to say that in recent months, LMP has also launched a legal aid service for civil servants who will be released after being re-employed as public employees at the place of their former civil servant status, which is a blatant filth. This is all about breaking the public sector's wages, breaking the civil servant's income. In these cases, it would also be necessary that the public servants concerned, who are being exploited and broken illegally by the State itself by circumventing the law, should find the truth within a short period of reasonable time and seek redress. Madam President, The other issue I think is worth talking about, and it has been mentioned in recent years, is the publicity of justice. I wouldn't necessarily talk about it, although this would be worth a few rounds of what happened or what didn't happen in the last year's development of the BHGY website. [[11.10]] Of course, it is also important to have contracts for court buildings on the website, to have comparable tenders, for example, to check that the state does not conclude contracts with offshore companies in the field of justice. Of course, this would all be important, for example, to ensure that farm data and contracts are easily visible on the website. On the other hand, I would like to draw the President's attention to another question, namely that it has been going on for many years that there is no legal settlement for the public administration of justice. This concerns, of course, not only the courts, but also the work of investigative bodies, police and prosecutors. There are constant anomalies that news about various ongoing cases will be released randomly, not free of all political intentions, on certain press products, on other matters, such as the mysterious wealth of Gábor Simon, the citizens look stupidly for a reason, and I apologize for the expression that there is still nothing to say, in the account of a Member of Parliament, former Secretary of State in Vienna, where the 200 million forints landed from the cottage. These anomalies are not only true for the past years, they are basically about the past 15 to 20 years. And in the bottom of the story, it's totally confusing how different investigative bodies, courts, when they're entitled and when they're obliged to give information. Previously, there were various OIT instructions and ministerial regulations. I think that the publicity of justice - because it involves fundamental rights, freedom of information, freedom of the press, and on the other hand the legitimate functioning of one of the constitutional institutions - should be governed by law. With all due respect, Madam President, I would like to ask you to take the initiative that, in the coming years, a bill on the publicity of the functioning of the justice system will come before this House. I would like to remove this question from the question of the operating public, to what extent, in accordance with the relevant laws, public investment in the various justice systems can be clearly accessed on the court's website. However, a big question and a big deficiency is the extent to which the substantive work itself, the judgment itself, and the publicity of the investigative work or the professional activity behind it are ensured and the interests of the parties to the proceedings in competition with it are assured. So we should put an end to the fact that certain procedures in a net of completely incomprehensible interests are being published in the press, and that information about other procedures that raise citizens' interest for a reason is not to know anything or very little. Madam President, As regards the third question, the tendering procedure, referring to the Constitutional Court 13/2013. We remain concerned by the fact that the mandate of the President of the OBH is still not sufficiently defined with regard to the declaration of ineffectiveness of the tenders. I would ask Madam President, if you use this power, regardless of what the law in force requires or does not provide, to do so, in order to strengthen precisely the confidence in the judiciary, to give a meaningful, exhaustive justification for declaring a tender to be ineffective. After all, it is an instrument that the President of the OBH can interfere with judicial appointments in one person. If this is a discretionary power, it completely logically undermines trust in the independence of the courts. However, there is no doubt that the various debates, partly because of European and partly domestic debates, have reduced this power, but I think it is unacceptable, and it is not about the person of the President, that the President of the OBH should have untired powers in any area regarding the appointments of judges, to say how he or she is orienting. Therefore, in the event of a declaration of failure of judicial applications, I think that discriminative discretion cannot be allowed, and you can now remedy this in the person of Madam President, in the absence of legal settlement, if in any case you give a clear explanation of such decisions to the public. Here again, I would like to say, what I said last year, I think that the full publicity of judicial applications should also be guaranteed. This concerns citizens. I cannot accept that, in such cases, these applications or any part of the proposals may be hidden from the public solely on the grounds of personal rights. The fourth question is the issue of division of cases. I would like to continue to confirm the position and claim of the LMP that the institution of automatic signaling must be settled immediately in the organizational law. The discussion of the 12, which has been expelled beyond the national borders, can be put to rest by the introduction of the organizational law of the institution of automatic division of cases, automatic signalisation. Of course, the law can provide a framework for this, and the president of the OBH can take care of its detailed rules. The introduction of the automatic signaling institution may once and for all remove suspicion that, in the case of specific cases, anyone wants to lead cases with any intention, or is trying to lead judges to cases. This debate can be closed if the institution of automatic signaling is introduced by the Parliament. Here, of course, the judicial wallet can also take the initiative, but the National Court Office can also take the initiative. Overall, as regards the discretionary powers of declaring proposals ineffective and the absence of an institution for automatic signature, our reservations and concerns remain, while, as far as the case is concerned within a reasonable period of time, we see and recognise progress. At the same time, I would like to point out with emphasis that the length of labour litigation, I am also thinking of the condemnations in Strasbourg, but in the current situation, when the state itself is abusing employees, it is of great concern. And in order to secure confidence in the functioning of the courts, perhaps the most important area is the issue of labour litigation, the rational termination of labour procedures. I would like to ask Madam President, who was a former labour court leader, to do everything possible to ensure that these anomalies are eliminated in the following year. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-43	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, he has a maximum of 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-44	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Madam President! I think it is worth continuing with the idea that, yes, the political environment in which you do your job cannot be ignored. This includes, and I do not agree with my fellow Member on this, that in the case of obvious violations, obvious unconstitutionality, specific matters must be addressed, because you do so as a professional, a lawyer, a leader, fully consciously. I'm not in a position to have to consider my own interests as a lawyer, and without them, I can tell you that what you're doing is a sin. This report you brought here is unacceptable. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: You didn't read it. You never read it!]] Among other reasons, Fidesz exerts pressure on the courts through the National Court Office. And that is also the case if, by the way, 90 percent of the courts, the majority of the judges, are almost certainly doing their decent, grateful work, but in the meantime, there are many who must be charged with the decision that has been made by your participation and contributing pressure. [[11.20]] The Parliament appreciates this work today, and although Congressman Répássy is trying to improve his renome and therefore he is happy to call in here to create a better situation for himself, which he may have missed in his own party, but this is no longer going to work for you, the Parliament today appreciates in part the work of the prosecution and, after the work of the prosecution, what you will do, how and in what way decisions will be taken in the framework of the court after this work on political order. However, when assessing the Hungarian justice system, we cannot, by definition, leave the work you do. We must say that since Viktor Orbán came to power, Péter Polt has clearly provided him and his fellow Fidesz politicians with the appointment of a prosecutor. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] the protection that they can't go to justice with. However, this was not enough to force the Hungarian justice system to carry out the will of Fidesz, but also to establish an office under your leadership, and to act through this office. And by the way, as a member of the family of a fidesz MEP... even this is a part of our friendship here. [[Noise.]] Madam President, you can steer the created cases launched by the Fidesz prosecutor's office in such a way that they go in the direction you want them to go. This is what they do, but first of all, in general judgment, we can safely say that the management and judicial designation process, the unconstitutionality of which the Constitutional Court has also stated... - yet you have been continuing to do so ever since. The Constitutional Court has clearly stated this and that it has violated and violated fundamental rights, as it is clear that everyone has the right to enforce justice in the courts of that area and not to provide justice, which is sometimes done by you. But this category includes what my fellow Members here... - It was Mr László Teleki who first mentioned the clearly incorrect and intervening step that you took at the court in Szombathely, where you prevented a judicial appointment, which, by the way, resulted in the resignation of the members of the judiciary, thereby evaluating your work. If you are willing to do this and intervene in this way, then their activities are not necessary. It also shows that the assessment of your work within this body is clearly not in the category of acceptance, but there are many who criticize it, and otherwise, not only because of the legislation, but also because of the application, what you are doing is a mistake. But it must also be said, and I would also like to mention as an example that, while the Constitutional Court has clearly stated how unconstitutional the activity you have carried out, that is to say, to direct and direct matters towards the appropriate judge, there is, for example, the Sukoro case that you know exactly. Let us not avoid this, because it is clear that the Fidesz D.A. has initiated a conceptual procedure against two former state leaders and then informed them that they have nothing to do but perjury against Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Defiance. Interviews from the Fidesz ranks. Dr. Robert Répássy: We've been waiting for this! The president's ringing the bell.]] Miklós Tátrai and Zsolt Császy refused to do this [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and also the truth in the case of the innocently committed concept proceedings - after the court's otherwise judgment in the first instance - you are following all of this And it's one of your achievements. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: How? How's that?]] Fidesz was aware that the concept process would fall short of legislation, but compared to that, it is being monitored and seen what is happening. You transferred the case to where you did this unconstitutionally, which is why I accuse you, Viktor Orbán, Peter Polt, of dragging innocent people and using the institutional system of justice to do so. That is why - and in the same category, Mrs Somogyváriné Silent Mary, who was jointly abused, honest, decent people - you have a responsibility in this regard, and you must consider it. Therefore, according to the Democratic Coalition, the judicial office of Tünde Hando is the political, fidesz political pressure, which can be seen in some places in the justice system itself, in the Hungarian courts. This, all of this reminds you of the atmosphere of the '50s, and you have the right to direct political discrediting cases to appropriate judges, and this is unacceptable in democracy, in the other Hungary. [[Dr. István Vitányi: Which other Hungary? Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Therefore, you must be responsible for why you have taken unconstitutional decisions, why you have assisted in the conduct of conceptual procedures and why you have put innocent people behind bars as a result of your operation. In this political context, we have to judge your report, and let us add it calmly, we can even do that some of the issues that relate to the specific report, let us also look at what you really should do differently in this regard. Generally speaking, it is safe to say that the revision or replacement of the National Judicial Council by a one-man decision, I think, in principle, raises questions, but there is no legal mandate in the report as to why judicial and prosecutorial organisations are trying to coordinate with each other in proceedings, while you can prove to be able to bear, in support of documents, to allow this to happen. Let us take a look at some specific awareness-raising remarks relating to the report. CHAPTER XXI In the 20th century, to make a complaint that would be embellished, i.e. measured on a regular shop balance, how many kilos of material had come in, and registered on this basis, and then, when they continue to do so, the same thing would continue, instead of having material filing, I think it would be unacceptable, even if, in many respects, a very large amount of material was received, which is why a few kilos of documents received... - and it will be returned to kilos, only what changes, which is your responsibility in such a situation. I think it is extremely worrying to be proud that, following the adoption of the Code of Conduct for Judges, they have remained indebted to addressing one of the most serious ethical issues of the past period, when the impossibility of relocating judges who have been found to have been unlawfully acquitted by the courts, courts and the Constitutional Court and the Court of Human Rights of the European Court of Human Rights is resolved. What are they doing in this and what are they doing to restore legality? [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: We have passed a law.]] My next point relates a little here to one of my fellow Members, namely how and how the work that is going to be done in the public eye or in the public eye can be seen today. On the central website birosag.hu, which you operate, you tend to forget to inform the public in every respect. They put out the indictments that are of particular importance to you, whether in your political interest, thus affecting the public and, by the way, keeping the rest quiet, and that is why this is extremely inappropriate. By the way, the court's office, the office itself, is not in a better position, given its topicality, because what can be found now is long since outdated. [[11.30]] We do not need to speak specifically about the fact that the relocating of the Curia as a project has completely failed, failed and unacceptable. Dear House, I have to say, the report, its details and the processes, the acts that have described you in this way over the past period are clearly unacceptable, so the Democratic Coalition and its representatives reject all of this, and, as I have said, there are a number of cases for which you should be responsible for what you have done during this period. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-21-45	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. With some experience, I warn you that the item on the agenda is the report by the President of the National Court of Justice. I would kindly ask that everyone who has spoken and who wishes to speak should take this into account. In view of this, I give the floor for two minutes to Congressman Robert Répássy, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor because what Gergely Bárándy predicted happened: he said that there was a foolish political filth going on here in the walls of the House. I then told him that it would come next, and indeed I cannot judge László Varju's words differently, just as Gergely Bárándy called it: stupid political filth. And the President of the National Court of Justice is in a position, according to the Constitution, not to be able to answer those charges. On the other hand, the mistake that I think you've made, I think it's exorbitant that you're confusing judicial administration with justice and judgment, it might be good to put it right. So the court administration is not responsible for your partymate being convicted. Do you understand, Congressman Varju? So, judging your partymate is not responsible for the administration of the court. The primary responsibility is the person who committed the crime, and secondly, the justice system, of course, who condemned him. President Tünde Hando has nothing to do with Mr Tátrai and the others - I would rather not name them here what I think about them, you said that former state leaders - state leaders were punished. Court administration has no say in this, no matter what they say, no matter how they threaten the judges. However, your corruption, which was left behind in 2010, is blatant, and you will not be able to escape the accusation of corruption by threatening the judges and questioning all the judges' judgments here about you. For the record, there is not enough judgment in these cases. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties, Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] A number of people have already called for this to be a rather slow process of accountability in these matters, but the governing parties also respect that, and respect that the laws of justice are slowly grinding. I would like to say the rest in a proper speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties, Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2015-10-21-47	Thank you very much. Mr András Schiffer asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2015-10-21-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Congressman Varju! This tone you've hit here is the tone of the '50s. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] You're doing an excellent job in this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Look, we criticized - and I think I have criticised you a little more than once - this government and these two-thirds because they give the president of the OBH and the two-thirds majority the powers to access and manipulate where the case is going. You didn't participate in these debates, but the fact that anyone threatens judges is the duty of every Democrat to reject a dog. Although you will never return to power in your stinking life, who is here as an opposition representative is here because he wants to govern once in a while. What's the world gonna be like when you're on the government, and there's the prosecutors and the judges you threatened? How much better than what the Fidesz has done in the last cycle? I reject the fact that here within the walls of this House there are specific judges for specific judgments by party leaders, your boss, or you threaten me in a gross, filthy way. That's one of them. Two, what kind of political influence are you talking about? I told you what anomalies have been maintained in relation to the administration system and the tendering system, and I think we should remain objective. Unfortunately, there was no settlement in Hungary after 2010. Unlike my fellow Member, Répássy, the two-thirds majority, which did not otherwise provide the facts that everyone was waiting for after the 2010 election, is responsible for this reason not for the judiciary, but for the various parties in connection with Sukoro, the Margaret Bridge, metro 4 and the government quarter. The Hungarian people still do not see clearly, and this is primarily a government responsibility, I note. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when you were in the Socialist Group, there was a deputy leader of the group named Gábor Simon. He's the name of a constitutional judge's recommendation. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Butcher for Rose. Now, for example, he gave the acquittal on Gyula Molnár's case. So much for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-21-49	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We will return to your speeches. As a speaker requesting a normal word, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács is next, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say that, until the independent Member's speech, I have already been in the misconception that today we are having a debate, not even a debate, an evaluation of a report that is worthy of the spirit of Parliament, worthy of the concept of law that I believe everyone who claims to be a bit of a Democrat must confess. There were speeches here that contained critical elements on the part of the opposition, that is right. And, naturally, there are also speeches that make it clear that, while there were very strong attacks at the beginning - attacks that turned out to be largely unfounded - we have today reached the point that the work of the office is being assessed somewhere, one way or another, but in fact, from the socialists to the very realistic speech of Congressman Schiffer. He appreciates the work that organizational strengthening has done, appreciates the work that this office, personally the President, has done to assist judicial work, improve the performance of judicial work. That's what I think, and I don't think it's a bad thing to say. There are, of course, disabilities such as in all sectors, including in the case of justice, on which it is necessary and possible to improve. I think these are the tasks of the coming times. I would like to say with great emphasis that there must be full agreement that the material and moral appreciation of the courts, including the judges, is undoubtedly something on which there is room for improvement. I used to say that when such voices were heard - like what was said here, how it is, that, of course, the public worker does not earn as much as the judge does the Secretary of State or as much as a Member, with respect - that the judges have a number of aspects that will be good to consider. The judge will be a judge here in Hungary, and if nothing happens, he will remain a judge until his life runs out, that is, he will not wander, he will not be able to emigrate, he will not be able to find a new place where there will be something else, and his appreciation will be rewarded much more strongly; he should be appreciated and we should be honoured. I think this is an important part of the next period. What the President, for example, has made a great deal progress with her office is a more worthy placement of departments and courts in recent times. It doesn't matter where the truth is shared and under what circumstances. Therefore, I am completely confused about whether it is right for the Curia to be where the Curia belongs. I think that it should be made clear that the appreciation of the Hungarian courts is not to be assessed through a specific case, but through the operation of the whole court itself, and this judicial operation, which has taken place in Hungary over the past period, has shown great progress in many respects. Dear House, However, I would also like to refer to some, perhaps rather, specific situations in which there is something to be done. I find it strange, of course, every time it is the legislator who starts pushing those institutions to make a motion to make such a law, but sometimes it seems more effective than the Member trying. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to some anomalies, perhaps a specific one, which, I think, can be exemplary. Today, the rule, with all due respect, is that if a party doesn't run in two elections, it can be any member, any organization, by the power of the law, the court will put an end to it, because that's what the law says. [[11.40]] But there is a part here that I simply have to say is tragic: after that, however, the court must, by the power of the law, make a decision that says that you eat it, you do not eat it, and you are an association, and this association cannot only be abolished in some way or another. What a joke it is, I beg you to set up an association in Hungary today, but in many ways it can be with many pitfalls, but if the law says you are an association, if you eat it, if you don't eat it, you are an association? ! I think it would be good for the courts to get rid of this unnecessary work, and as soon as possible, all of them would signal that the method should be stopped, because I think there are many other situations where it is worth giving signals. But what I would like to do, and what I think is important, is whether it is right that the President has a role to play in the appointments. This can be appreciated from a number of sides. This may be done in one way or another, in a way that concerns judicial independence, somewhere, the independence of the courts. But I think there's something else going on here. Retrospecting local aspects is sometimes necessary on the basis of national considerations, and I think that this is precisely through this institution, through this opportunity. If this is not the case, very strong local aspects can prevail, and they can create much greater distortions. So I think that this regulation is necessary and sustainable. Last but not least, I am convinced that the past period of this office has proved that it was the right decision to run the office, and that all the situations and results that have been evaluated here today have demonstrated that it has not only been right to set up the office, it is necessary to maintain it, strengthen it, and I must say that its support is not only correct. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-21-51	Thank you very much. A two-minute speaker will be Mr László Varju, independent. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-52	Thank you very much. Let's see who we've been able to piss off with the truth, honesty and consistent criticism you've been saying here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a 50s speech, this is a clear, clear speech, not an interest-based one you are talking about. Let it be clear that management management management and decision-making do influence political intent, and that it does want and influence all the output. This is why what is happening is unacceptable, and it follows from the fact that the Constitutional Court has abolished and abolished the rule taken by the majority, it has been in force for a total of six months, although you intend to use this period to otherwise conduct a political deal with those who do not like it. This is also the case if my fellow Member Schiffer is very nervous that one of the important elements of his entire party's establishment has fallen, it is a lie as it is, and therefore what he has said. Therefore, of course, I can only quote the Constitutional Court and the professionals who have expressed themselves in this regard: therefore, the objective requirement of impartiality is only met if the regulation provides sufficient guarantees to exclude all doubts. You do not meet this requirement in any way, neither guarantees nor impartiality exist in the way in which the judicial office and the way in which the President operates. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-21-53	Thank you very much. Congressman András Schiffer will be here in two minutes.
u2015-10-21-54	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would only like to respond to what the interim president has said. There may have been a misunderstanding here, Mr. President. The problem is not in itself that the president of the OBH has driver's licenses. How lucky the OBH as a construction itself or not, we had this debate in 2012; I continue to maintain that a reform of the former National Council of Justice would have been luckier than the establishment of such a central administrative body, but let us leave it now. The problem is - I stress once again - that the president of the OBH can enter the tender ranking with virtually no legal framework for how he touches it. So the problem is not the power of the president of the OBH alone, but that it is practically a discretionary power. And it is not the person of President Hando who is interesting, but the President of the OBH at all times, so that, when it comes to the ranking of judges and the declaration of inefficiencies, you should have the hands of the President of the OBH at all times on how to make these decisions. I have asked the President, who is currently filling the position, to do so, that, if she is using these powers, whether or not she is currently bound by the law, give her clear, valid justification if she declares that she has failed, if she reaches into the list of applications and, not least, the proposals and the decisions of the President of the OBH, their explanations should be made public and accessible. It is about performing and fulfilling a public authority function. Let's say, even if you are a member of Parliament, it is not possible to accept that if you, me or any of us do not wish to put your CV on Parliament's website. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Personal rights cannot play a role in this case, they must all be transparent, both the application materials and the justification for the decision. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-55	Thank you very much. We will return to the speech of the Members; it is not a coincidence that the number is one. Congressman Robert Répássy has spoken. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I will not complete the full time available, because I have basically already spoken in the debate, but returning only one sentence to László Varju's sentences, we must state that it is important to clarify here in Parliament that the courts are not obliged to report their case-law to Parliament. That's the essence of independence. What is happening here: the President of the Curia is obliged to report on his administrative activities, in the case of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, in order to ensure the unity of the law and to review the municipal regulations, without having to say that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office will not report on the judicial judgments. Therefore, the judges are not obliged to report on the case, and therefore, dear Congressman Varju, it is unconstitutional that the judges' judgments are to be counted here in Parliament on any court leader. Nevertheless, they may have an opinion on judicial judgments, I believe that this is permitted, especially, let us say, the defendant himself may have an opinion on it, it is natural, and if the defendant is a politician, he may even be able to express that opinion, but I have said that there are certain limits to this too. You are a member of a so-called democratic party: the limit to not threatening judges, for example, is a very important democratic barrier. But back to the report by the President of the National Court of Justice, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Member Schiffer and others have been involved here, which control mechanism is in place over the administration of the President of the National Court Office. I apologize, Madam President, not to talk about your activities, but to talk about control, about the fact that the National Judicial Council exercises a very strong supervisory right under the Fundamental Law and according to the law of the Court of Justice. The Fundamental Law explicitly states that the supervisory body of the OBH is the National Judicial Council. The National Judicial Council, by the way, has just been debated here by Mr Schiffer, Head of the Group, on all personal matters, in which the President of the OBH or the President of the Curia wants to deviate from the order of the tender, the National Judicial Council must have the right of agreement, so it has virtually veto rights in these matters. While I attended the National Judicial Council as a duty of office, I recall that was the practice - but probably the president of the OBH confirms this - that in all such cases, when they want to depart from the ranking of applications, they must, of course, justify it. Oh, they're not doing this in public, and they're not doing it in front of Parliament, it's because they're personal applications, and in these personal applications, the supervisor of administrative powers, the National Judicial Council, listens to the full explanation of why they want to deviate from this ranking. [[11.50]] The President of the National Court of Justice will therefore bring a reasoned proposal to it and the National Judicial Council will approve it or will not approve it. In this case, it is only possible to deviate from the tender ranking. So this is a legally regulated, fundamental law-regulated order. Another sentence from the National Court Office's supervisory body, OBT. He did not receive much publicity in the Hungarian press, and nowhere, in any press, that the National Judicial Council was elected as a full member of the European Network of Judicial Councils in June this year. When the OIT ceased in 2011, Hungary was only a member of the European Councils of Justice with observer status from 1 January 2012, but this year, in June 2015 it won full membership. It is very instructive what countries have only observer membership in this organisation - once again, the European Network of Judicial Councils - Austria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Luxembourg, and even non-EU countries, including Norway, but also Sweden. These countries have only observer membership in this body. This is a circumstantial evidence that I have told you, but a very important aspect is that the Hungarian National Judicial Council is considered a full member among the judicial councils that have all the legal constitutional powers that ensure their participation in the judicial administration, and their independence cannot be called into question. I think it was worth mentioning a few words about this here in Parliament, because when Hungary gained only observer status in this organization, of course, it was huge news, and perhaps even here in Parliament as evidence of a deterioration in the independence of the judiciary. Dear House, I think that the National Court Office - I apologise to Madam President for not wanting to talk about the daily successes of judicial administration, but I would like to talk about the fact that the administrative activity of the Court Office and its supervision, its control, are fully implemented and fully transparent. Any personal decision must be subject to the right of agreement of the judiciary, because the judicial council to which a tender has been submitted agrees with the decision, and if they want to depart from the application, then, as I said, the right of agreement of the National Judicial Council, i.e. another judicial body, characterizes this decision process. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one more comment, to be more specific, on a subject, and this was a discussion by Mr Csaba Gyüre, who challenged the professional integrity of the judge who was a judge assigned to the ministry, let us say. He mentioned this debate, which, by the way, was an earlier debate. Well, my fellow Members, I have looked at the biography of the chief judges so far. President Pál Solt, whose independence has not yet been questioned, was a member of the Ministry of Finance in the 1970s and became a judge since the 1980s. Paul Solt began his career earlier in the judicial organization, and this small detour obviously does not doubt his independence. András Baka - who, as we know, was not a judge - was a Member of Parliament between 1990 and 1994, a representative of the Hungarian Democratic Forum and then a candidate of the then government for the Judge of the Strasbourg Human Rights Court, and when this was extended, it was extended on a proposal from the government. This court's career in Strasbourg was the basis for the election of the future LB President. In English, I wanted to say that there is even one among the supreme judges who was a Member of Parliament. President Péter Darák - I apologise to the President, but he obviously knows that he has been acting as a judge in the Ministry of Justice, and has been involved in civil law codification for a year. I would very much ask Mr Gyüre not to base all these considerations on the fact that the advancement and professional integrity of judges can be questioned in any way. They're very helpful to any government in the Department of Justice. It is quite clear that there is practice in Hungary, but also in many other European countries, to assign judges to ministries. When we held this debate, Mr Gyüre, I even told you that the law on judicial status includes, among other things, the fact that someone has been in an administrative workplace. In Hungarian, who used to work in the public administration and did legal work there, according to the law, he is fully qualified to serve as a judge. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-21-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with speeches by Members. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP!
u2015-10-21-58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will be brief, because I would just like to respond to one thing, a matter of thought, which my fellow Member Répássy has said. I am very pleased that, Mr President, the results that really led to OBT becoming a full member of the international body, an international organisation in 2015 have been appreciated. I can honestly say that I take this as one of the greatest praises from you in our direction and towards the Venice Commission, because it obviously did not escape your attention - I know, because we have been doing this together for the last four or five years - what process has led to the fact that from the initial concept the current, by the way, I have already claimed that a judicial system of the rule of law has been established. To this day, as Mr Schiffer has said in his speech, I can say that I would have found it significantly more fortunate not to destroy the OIT system, but to make certain corrections. I do not like the fact in itself that an institution for the administration of a court is called an office, I believe that it is much more fortunate to have the name of a council, and I could list these examples. But I will say this: you always highlight it and consider it a great merit of the system - I have heard several times today from pro-government representatives - that without the approval of the OBT, the President of the OBH or the President of the Curia cannot deviate from the ranking. Former Secretary of State, this was not the case in their original concept, where the President of the OBH and the President of the Curia received an unlimited appointment right! The fact that this has changed, I think, is partly the result of opposition efforts and the Venice Commission and the European Commission coming from outside, otherwise a blessing in this regard. But the same is true of the practice of relocation and the issue of judicial forced retirement. In other words, a terribly long journey has led to the creation of a truly state-of-law model, unlike your original concept. There are some minor problems or problems - but in this respect I can tell you in which state it is not - that I think it is necessary to change. I was talking about this on the previous agenda. I just want to make one thing clear when we discuss this issue: none of this is your fault. You have done everything you can to make this system so that it doesn't turn out like this. They did everything they could! They complied with international fora, the opposition proposals were rejected. [[12.00]] In other words, the fact that this is the result, that we are now full members of the board, or that today, I think, that everyone considered or recognised as a rule of law or a rule of law, has nothing to do with the Fidesz government, because what you created, you wanted to create and maintain in force, was not about that. The only reason I wanted to put this on the table now is before they took credit for the fact that the judicial administration system is now considered a rule of law not only in Hungary but also abroad. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-59	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyure is next, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, That's why I'd respond to Mr. Répássy's words. So I did not question, as Mr Répássy said, the professional qualifications of the secretaries assigned to the IM. I didn't say that they're not progressing professionally, and I don't doubt that, in any case, they're a great help in the Ministry of Justice by a subordinate judge, a subordinate secretary, and I don't doubt why they shouldn't apply for a judge, just like everyone else. That's not what I said. I said that we constantly criticized that this would not be an advantage, if any, so that it would not be an advantage when judged. So you have the same chance of starting a fight when a secretary wants to be a judge as a secretary in court. So that was the point, and I raised the possibility that, where appropriate, obviously, who spends his time with a politically influenced institution, it could mean political influence. I didn't say that everyone who spends a year or two there will be politically influenced by themselves. Obviously, I'm not saying that, and that can't be said. I say that it should be the same as in the legislation that it was finally made. We were just criticizing what was the original proposal of Fidesz, according to which they would have enjoyed an advantage. Then I have two more comments. A number of people have already reported to Madam President on the problem of prolonged cases. Madam President has also said that there are many of these problems, and that these lengthy cases are indeed constantly being eliminated, which is very positive and we are very happy about them, but there are, indeed, window trials on which - indeed said here - the country's total public opinion would be curious, and they have been going on for a very long time. We're thinking of the Bisku case, Béla Bisku's case, or perhaps the most veterinary horse, is the Key Price case. The problem here is that society's confidence in the court may be shaken when it is true that there are billions of frauds and embezzlements in some cases, which are highly concerned by the country's public opinion, and it will be over a decade. Obviously, they say, why not embezzle if the court doesn't convict those who committed it in ten years' time. So this is therefore a very big risk, and we can obviously see the effort not to do so, but there is still room for improvement here. Then there is another problem that I would like to draw to the attention of Madam President, which is the problem of training judges. In the 2013 report, Madam President also put a great deal of emphasis on this issue and indicated how important she felt it was. It was not included in the present oral account, obviously mentioned in the 270 - page material. However, I feel that there has been some kind of withdrawal in this recent period. So the judicial academy system, which used to work so well, and the judges, if any, made it to the judicial academy four or five times a year on an important subject, became more rare. I hear from judges in a series that these opportunities have ceased, and there is no possibility of further training to the extent that it was during the previous period. That is how I have heard of it, and I would also like to point this out to Madam President and draw her attention to it. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-61	Thank you very much. Two-minute speech: Mr László Varju, independent, please.
u2015-10-21-62	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to draw the attention of the pro-government representatives to the fact that they do not want to explain what I have said to them, what you might have wanted to hear or hope to hear, but they were not involved. I don't want to threaten, I don't want to hurt judges, and neither does the Democratic Coalition. On the other hand, the conduct and practice that the Constitutional Court contested was that the panel had found that the legal provisions in force in the past, which allowed the transfer of cases, were against the law and were contrary to international treaties, and consequently, using this short period, they initiated procedures, i.e. left in the process, which are unacceptable, for which I do accuse Viktor Orbán, Péter Polt, Gábor Kovacsics, acting prosecutor, Tünde Hando and the judge, Mária Somogyváriné Silent, that they did abuse decent people using this. That is why I think that everyone here also believes that the transfer of cases in their cases has violated the fundamental guarantees of justice, and that is why you are responsible for letting this happen. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-63	Mr Répássy Róbert will be here for a two-minute speech. I would like to warn you that it is a noble thing to argue with each other about each other's words, but this item is on the agenda for the accounts of the President of the National Court Office. Please try to focus on that. Congressman Répássy, please.
u2015-10-21-64	Thank you, Mr. President. You're absolutely right, except for the fact that László Varju mentioned Hando's Fairy by name earlier, and he mentioned some accusations. Well, Honourable Congressman László Varju! So you have just said that decent people have been abused by these court figures, listed by your name, such as Mr Tátrai and Mr Császy. Well, allow me to question the decency of these gentlemen. So you can protect them from me, because, as I said, your party mates or your former party mates, it doesn't matter now, but let me question your decency. Another question is whether they have criminal liability, and that will be decided by the court. Honourable Congressman, With regard to the transfer of cases: you also expect the court or the Court of Justice to implement valid laws in force. While it was the law, it was the law that, under certain conditions, the determining court could or should have been appointed in certain cases, these judicial actors implemented the laws. When the law changed, for example, as a result of the decision of the Constitutional Court, and, moreover, as a result of the decision of the Parliament, when the law changed, the court was no longer appointed on this basis, but on the basis of a completely different rule. You're mistaken, and I suggest you speak to the lawyers who defend these two decent people that the Sukoro case was not decided by Tünde Hando. That was based on a later decision. But anyway, I don't want to bring this here, so I don't want to discuss the Sukoro case, but it's a complete mistake. So the practice of transferring cases has ended with the Parliament abolishing this basic legal and judicial organizational provision. Then, on the basis of different rules, the courts acted on the basis of legal rules. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-21-65	Now, please, I ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mrs Tünde Hando, President of the National Court Office, if she wishes to respond and respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Fae Hando: Yes.]] Here you go. Come on. [[Dr. Fae Hando is entering the speaker's stand.]] Before you begin, I would like to remind you that you have a maximum of half an hour to take advantage of.
u2015-10-21-66	Thank you very much, but I am in a very difficult situation, because you have raised issues that, as an administrative leader to me and, of course, the court organisation, otherwise they may also be important to citizens. Thank you very much for the words of appreciation, and thank you very much for the comments from which you hope to improve. I especially thank you for the fact that the judicial career has been mentioned by several people, since we made various proposals to several parliamentary committees last year at the end of the year. [[12.10]] It didn't happen any different this year. There is an agreement between the Hungarian Judicial Association, the Court Workers' Union, OBT and OBH. We will continue to work on legislative amendment text proposals, the development of a judicial career model, and we will bring the proposals to the Ministry of Justice in detail at the same time. I hope all of this will have a conception. Of course, this reduction in salary, which has occurred in the court organisation over the last ten years, is now the last place among the Member States of the European Union in the initial judicial salaries, with a serious and negative impact on judicial replacements, even on draft applications. But their recent fall shots showed that even the 10-percent job replacement increase had some positive effects. My heart was spoken by those who asked about the powers of the judiciary, for I myself consider this to be extremely important. Above all, however, with reference to several other comments, it should be stressed that the court organisation operates according to the law. What Parliament decides, what it announces in law, we operate according to it. This law, which concerns judicial appointments or advancements, gives the bodies both national and local powers and gives the individual leaders powers at the same time. A balance was sought by the legislator to ensure that no one was overpowered. There are, of course, other systems, or we could go to the United States of America, where the judges are chosen directly, and no one has a say in who becomes a judge, only voters who vote, as if they were elected only parliamentary representatives. The palette is extremely wide. I can safely say, as has been mentioned, that the judiciary, the court organisation, is informed of the reasons for the decisions every time, and that there is no legal obligation to do so. I hope that these explanations and reasons will reach each member of the judiciary. What has also come up in this forum - and I thank you for the protective contributions, especially those that have generally been about the protection of the courts and judges - we can hardly get into these give-and-take competitions, since we are operating on another racetrack. We cannot make the parliamentary climate more colourful with such vehement comments. But even on the pages of newspapers or even court websites, it would not be appropriate for us to respond in this way. Anyone who can help us in this situation can only be the legislator. And while I'm standing here under the raven crest, I must quote a 1492, or more than 400-year-old law from King Matthias. This is King Matthias' 70th Act: punishment for those who bring bad news to the country's ordinary judges. This law says: "Sometimes it happens that the judges of those who lose laws are slandered, misrepresented, and unfairly abused, as if they did not provide them with justice, whose unjust and damned yelling usually results in a lot of scandals and other kinds of troubles. The 1st and the 1st. Article 2 of the Act decrees: "In order to put a brake on their language, we have all done so with our common vote, so that no one at all dares to defraud or unfairly insult the ordinary judges of the court or their judges and their sittings. I'm not going to tell you that any of us today would like to be subject to torture punishments of the kind they were at this time. Overall, I consider it a great honor to have the kind of interest and very thorough, detailed comments on the substance of problems or administrative matters that have been expressed. There is no time and opportunity to answer all of these questions individually, but in the coming weeks and months, I will try to give you all answers either to the points raised in relation to civil society organisations or to the points concerning the timeliness of the case. Thank you so much for having me here. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-21-67	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the B/4680 on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2014. H/6384, which was submitted by the Attorney General and adopted by the General Prosecutor. joint general debate on the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee until its closure. Dear Parliament, Allow me to extend my compliments to Dr. Péter Polt, Dr. Ervin Belovics and Dr. István Lajtár, Deputy Attorney General, and to Dr. Krisztián Eperjes, as well as to our invited guests who are monitoring our work on the spot. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt, the author of the report. Mr. Attorney General, you have 30 minutes tops. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-68	Yes, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am pleased to be able to present an oral addition to the general prosecutor's report on the previous year for two consecutive years. I think it is very important that, from time to time - and these intervals should be as short as possible - the plenary session of Parliament should also be informed of the results, work and possible problems that the prosecution has experienced in the previous year. Dear Parliament, The oral amendment will obviously not cover or cover the whole of the written report. I am simply taking out certain details, which I consider to be important on the one hand, and the activities of the prosecution on the other hand are generally characterised. But I think that the full and complex picture of the work carried out in 2014 can be obtained by the person who reads the written report. Dear Parliament, Very briefly: the prosecutor, the prosecutor's office, the Attorney General, is the sole enforcer of the state's criminal claim and carries out other statutory tasks. The Fundamental Law defines the basic objectives, powers and work of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and this is accompanied by detailed, clarification laws. It is clear, however, that there are two activities of the prosecutor's organisation, both in the field of criminal law and in the field of public law, of which clearly the activity carried out in the field of criminal law is more significant. This also means that the amount of prosecutorial work depends essentially on the evolution of the overall crime. [[12.20]] I am pleased to say that in 2014 the overall crime rate decreased, with 12.8% fewer crimes recorded - in fact 329 303 crimes - than in the previous year. In this context, the number of registered offenders also decreased, with 108 389 registered offenders. Last year it was 109,876. I would like to highlight a very important indicator right here, right at the beginning of the statistical data. The most serious crimes against a person, the number of homicides, have also decreased. 129 manslaughter cases were registered, 138 in 2013. Of course, the criminological analysis of the decline cannot be my task right now. I'm talking about the total crime and the number of perps. This requires an analysis and a more detailed analysis. There are also legislative and other reasons for this, but I think that we are still facing a positive trend. We hope that this will be a trend. In any case, the workload in the criminal area has also decreased somewhat compared to the change in the overall crime. In the last year, i.e. in 2014, a total of 818 050 cases were filed, which means that there have been several records of one crime in relation to the progress of the crime and the actions. In any event, this reduction was not significant, in 2013, 901 635 offences were registered; cases were not registered as criminal offences, but as criminal cases. It's a very important indicator of how many indictments had to be made to the prosecutors last year. There's a slight decrease here, too. 114,538 such cases have been brought to the D.A.'s office. 51.5 percent of all these cases were prosecuted by the Public Prosecutor's Office; 11.9 percent were terminated and other measures were taken. Prosecution continues to be very positive. Of course, this indicator also requires analysis in many respects, but the number itself is very positive, 96.6 percent. This was 96.4 percent in 2013. It is a very significant achievement that the prosecution is increasingly using and continuing to use the available institutions to speed up the conclusion of cases. This also means making matters easier to deal with. Thus, a significant number of motions have been made by prosecutors in order to avoid a trial, thus reversing a negative process that has been going on for years. The number of such motions increased by 2.4 percent compared to the previous year. I also report an increase in the delay of the indictment as a result; the number of such cases increased by 3.1 percent, while the number of claims to court increased by 8.6 percent. Otherwise, the presentation to the court, as the most effective acceleration institution, is also very significant compared to the total number of launches. The Court's activities in 2014 also changed compared to the Court's ruling on more cases than before, significantly more cases, 67 718 cases, 59 296 cases in 2013. This means that the activities of criminal courts have accelerated. I consider this to be very charitable, and I am pleased that the D.A.'s office has been involved in this. However, this, and this has to be noted, meant an increase in the burden of the case for prosecutors, so while there was a reduction in the number and quality of the supervision of investigations, the negotiating activity was fully balanced, since prosecutors were even at the hearing when there was no mandatory prosecution, to be more precise, they appeared before the court, so in the public sitting, where they should not otherwise have done so. There was also an increase in the number of prosecutor's appeals in the negotiating department. A long time ago, the prosecutor's opinion, including my personal opinion, has been expressed that there is a relatively mild trend in terms of punishment. The D.A.'s office is in favour of a more rigorous punishment exercise. This is partly the result of a larger number of appeals and an upward trend, and I am pleased to say that the effectiveness of the prosecutor's appeals has also increased last year, with 55.7 percent of the prosecutor's appeals being effective in 2014. The role of prosecutor in exceptional redress procedures is extremely important to ensure uniform application of the law. In 2014, 518 review proceedings took place before the Public Prosecutor's Office and made a statement to the Curia, and there is a very favourable consensus rate in the Curia, which is 94.2 percent. There is a significant increase compared to the 2013 figure and the ratio. I can tell you that this number almost reached the arraignment index. We also seek legal remedies to ensure the unity of the application of the law. A motion for redress was submitted, i.e. before the Curia the institution called "legality" was applied in nine cases. This is even more significant, because in 2014, we did not initiate a legal unit procedure, but we initiated one more precisely, but the Curia did not decide on it at the time. I think that it should be said separately - probably also in the debate - about corruption crimes and their treatment. First of all, the figures: the number of corruption offences in 2014 has changed significantly, including all corruption crimes after 828 in 2012 to 1105 in 2013 and 3269 in 2014. Here too, it is obvious that there are several reasons for this growth. I would like to highlight what is less often addressed by the fact that we have made significant progress in the detection of corruption crimes, despite the difficulties of proof. [[12.30]] So I believe that this increasing figure, in addition to a large number of acts in a case of outliers, is due to a better detection of latent crime. In this context, we need to talk about the Central Detective Attorney General's Office. The Central Investigator's Attorney General is the depositary of the fight against corruption as an independent, separate department. Practically in 2014, the structure of the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office became complete, it was filled up, it has a proper team of professionals, and regional departments are already able to work with 100% efficiency. Obviously, efficiency does not apply to efficiency, but also to work patterns; I believe that they are also effective. It may be worth mentioning that in 2014, the penal branch acted in 509 international cases. The prosecutor's organisation has a very close relationship with foreign law enforcement organisations at different levels. Particular emphasis should be given to close cooperation with international organisations, such as the European Anti-Fraud Office, the various Council of Europe units and the various departments of the European Union. Another major area of prosecutor activity is the field of public interest protection. This is characterised by the fact that the law confers jurisdiction on the prosecutor in a wide range of different areas of law. In 2014, too, there were a number of legislative changes affecting the prosecution's activities in this regard. The reason I say that is because it is typical that a number of legislative changes in the last few years have primarily served to increase the powers of prosecutors' organisations. Perhaps what needs to be highlighted in particular is the entry into force of the Civil Code in 2014. Our preparation for this has been good, and the prosecution's work in this area is smooth. Civil order has also been modified, which gives the prosecutor new powers, for example, to enforce civil law claims in connection with property fraud, extortion, usury crimes, where public prosecutor action is mandatory. For example, in 2014, there were three cases of housing mafia in parallel with criminal proceedings in which the prosecutor was obliged to act in order to enforce civil rights claims, or I can now report 90 cases against loan sharks. I'd like to mention land affairs. The trend here is that there is an increase in the number of prosecutorial actions. In 2014, we submitted 17 calls and 10 actions. By the way - 2014 was very much the beginning of this activity - to show the trend, this figure rose to 76 by the end of September 2015. So I think that this upward trend will continue to be typical. For others, infringement cases need to be dealt with separately, given that this represents more than 40% of the public interest protection sector's turnover. We consider environmental protection a very important area. Here, cooperation with the criminal sector is the typical parallel procedure. We have brought 17 outstanding cases for environmental reasons. It is also a power of attorney - and a very important power of prosecutor - to sue for the unfairness of standard contract terms. In 2014, this took place in 10 cases, which is not considered to be small because, on the basis of these types of actions, the court determines unfairness of the contract clause to a large number of consumers who are contracting with economic organisations, up to 100 thousand individuals. Criminal law supervision is a very important part of the field of public interest protection. I think the D.A.'s office is doing a guarantee job here. The work burden on this has increased, by the way. In 2014, a total of 8258 investigations were carried out by Bv supervisory prosecutors, which was only 6836 in 2013. I believe that, on the whole, Hungary has complied with international legal standards and recommendations on the basis of investigations, but there are problems and errors that require further efforts. We can read this in international documents. I would like to mention that we are extremely active in the European Union, first and foremost, as a prosecutor. In several forums, the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office is a permanent participant and initiative. This is the EU network of prosecutors or the consultative forum of the Attorney General in The Hague. I would particularly like to highlight the Visegrad Group, where I feel that we have managed to find a common voice for the prosecutors in the countries involved, and we also have a common position on, for example, the issue of the European Prosecutor. In short, the functional area. The number of authorised posts of the prosecutor's organisation increased to 4826 in 2014. The increase is largely due to the development of 40 main prosecutors, 22 chief clerks and 5 main prosecutors in the field of agricultural land. During the reporting period, the number of vacant posts fell from 198 to 157, with a total shortage of 8.3 percent of prosecutors. We can't give in to that, and it's a very important principle, now it's a decade-old principle in the DA's office, that it can only be a prosecutor who has the right professional and human qualities. This is not easy to achieve. One guarantee of this is training and further training. The Hungarian Attorney's Training Center, which has been active since 2006, was successful in 2014. In 2014, we organised 29 central courses for prosecutors, and in addition many other seminars, professional scientific conferences, scientific proposals and other courses were held. The economic conditions are given to the functioning of the prosecutor's organisation. In 2014, more than HUF 38 billion of expenditure was available to the prosecutor's organisation. 95.5 percent of this is aid for the year, to a lesser extent the residual of the previous year and only 0.1 percent of the own revenue. It is also important to see that the prosecution receives this chapter and, to a lesser extent, the expenditure in rem, basically for personal benefits. [[12.40]] I'm gonna have to give you a heads-up on D.A.'s IT. It has entered a new phase of development since 2000. In 2014, more than half of the prosecutors already had a secure signatory device, for which certificates installed in addition to the creation of qualified electronic signatures provide access to the electronic system of company and real estate registers. I have to say that in 2014, all the prosecutors who were involved in the trial had a portable computer, so they could handle electronic documents in the courtroom. If I have to sum up my own assessment of the prosecutor's activity in 2014, I have to say that this activity was characterised by legality, efficiency and stability. We feel that we have fulfilled our legal obligations, and, of course, we want to move forward in all of this, and therefore we are doing everything we can. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-21-69	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Judicial Committee, the rapporteur for the proposal for a decision, has indicated in advance that he does not wish to speak in the debate; the representative of the Government has indicated that he does not wish to present his position during the debate. The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Mr István Vitányi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-70	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Ladies and gentlemen, The Judicial Committee discussed the resolution house rule 83. According to paragraph 1 of Section B/4680 on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2014. His report, which was submitted during which the majority of the members agreed that the Prosecutor's Office was legal on the one hand and effective on the other, in 2014. Allow me to summarise last year's report, which was organised here in plenary and in committee by the Attorney General Péter Polt, mainly on the criminal discipline, followed by the public sector, international activity, and, for some thought, on the personal situation of the prosecutor's office, and, of course, I will support all of this with figures. According to the Fundamental Law, criminal activity is a significant part of the prosecutor's work, which is inseparable from the situation of crime in Hungary. In this context, it can be said that in 2014 there were 12.8 percent fewer offences, and basically there is a decline in the area of property crimes. The number of registered offenders has also decreased, 108,389 offenders have been registered in the last year. As the Attorney General mentioned, 138 homicides were reported before last year, while this fell to 129 last year, which represents a positive change. Dear House, In the fight against corruption, both the government and the prosecution have their own responsibilities. The current government has done the most against corruption in Hungary. Examples are the new rules for party and campaign financing, electronic checks on road freight traffic, the introduction of online machinery and the Szja system. The government's actions make corruption pointless. The D.A.'s office has taken a big step in eliminating corruption over the past year. As we have just heard from the Attorney General, 828, 3269 corruption cases were discovered in 2012. I believe that this increase in figures meant not an increase in crime, but efficiency and the discovery of latent crime. In this context, let me highlight, for example, the Vizoviczki case, which has indeed exposed criminal infiltrating the top circles of the investigating authority. As a result of the successful investigation in this case, the Central Detective Attorney General has also filed charges. Or I could mention the recent case this week, when the people of the Central Investigator's Attorney General performed a successful operation at the Zahon border crossing point. In view of this, the corruption attacks of the opposition against Fidesz and the government are unfounded. Dear House, The investigating authorities have filed 114,538 cases for indictment. With the cases that went on from last year, more than 120,000 cases had to be investigated by the prosecutor's staff in terms of fitness for prosecution. 51.5 percent of the cases were indicted, the rest either had to terminate the investigation or were to be returned to further investigations or other decisions had to be taken. The indictment continues to be excellent in the criminal discipline. In 2013, it was 96.4 per cent, with a return of 0.2 per cent, and 96.6 per cent in 2014. The prosecution's capacity to represent the prosecution remains of high quality. The number of trials increased, while the number of crimes decreased, and thus the investigative activity meant less work in some respects, while the activity before the court increased, as the number of trials is also increasing in proportion to the number of prosecutors' participation due to compulsory prosecutors' participation. Dear House, The Fundamental Law declares that, in addition to the classic prosecution function, the prosecution has additional powers, and these powers granted by law are protected by the public interest. In 2014, more legislative changes affected the protection of the public interest, more precisely, as Mr Attorney General said, the new Ptk. the entry into force of the Act on Civil Procedure, which gave the prosecutor new powers to enforce civil law claims in connection with property fraud, extortion, usury crimes, as he made the prosecution mandatory. Given that the entry into force was in March, there is little time for practical implementation, but we need to see that this field of public interest protection makes a significant contribution to the fight against corruption. The prosecution is responsible for the supervision of reliability investigations, which is essentially a control and preventive activity. Dear House, At international level, bilateral, top-level meetings with both EU partners and Eastern partners were typical. The volume of international prosecutorial activity is well demonstrated by the total number of 226 prosecutorial staff attending 171 international events in 2014. The cooperation of the Visegrád Group's main prosecutors represented an exemplary, unified position with regard to the European prosecutor, i.e. the original Hungarian prosecutor's position. Speaking of international relations, it is important to mention that the international perception of the activities of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office is very positive. International organisations have on several occasions expressed their appreciation for the work of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office. As a result of the unfounded attacks of the opposition, the international perception of our prosecutorship is far more favourable than that of our country. Dear House, On 1 January 2014, the number of authorised posts in the public prosecutor's office increased to 4826 by the end of the year; I would add that enlargement was necessary in order to carry out additional tasks, which is still minor. I stress that prosecutors are highly qualified, which is demonstrated, among other things, by the fact that 70 prosecutors currently conduct teaching activities in higher education institutions, and in addition, in 2014 they had the opportunity to participate in 29 central training programmes for authors and assistant prosecutors, as they continued to prepare for the profession of prosecutor in the centre of education and training, as well as the professional training of prosecutors. The effectiveness of criminal proceedings requires the court and prosecution to interpret and apply substantive and procedural rules of criminal law on a professional basis in principle. Recognizing this, prosecutors are also involved in the work of the Curia's case-law analysis groups. A few words about prosecutor's IT, which has been incorporated into the workflow, as more and more laws require electronic contact. At present, more than 4,000 public prosecutorial employees reach their respective e-networks through their own workstations, which continuously ensures access to applications and data online, which makes it possible to provide more effective justice. [[12.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, These are some of the above-mentioned data that show that the prosecution continued to meet the challenges posed by changes in crime and developments in the legislative background in 2014. Thank you for the prosecution's work in 2014. I would ask my fellow Members to accept the 2014 report. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-21-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is coming. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-72	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Assistant Attorney General, Lords! I am building up my current speech as a keynote speaker in a somewhat irregular way, as Mr Attorney General has quite rightly opposed why I am first to express my opinion at the committee hearing on whether or not we support the report of the Attorney General before we have heard his answer, and why I am not responding to the problems, questions and answers that you have raised at the committee meeting. I can tell you, Mr. Attorney General, that you are welcome to the Fidesz-led parliament. It's the custom of committee meetings. The reason I'm forced to tell you before you answer is whether we support you or not, is because I know I won't get the floor after you answer. And that, for the record, was the case. If you remember, Mr Attorney General, I applied even after that, just as Congressman Vitányi was chairman of the committee meeting, and I asked him to give me a way to answer you at the committee meeting; Mr Vitányi did not give me this opportunity, so I could not answer you. [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.]] Now you're silent, Congressman, because I'm talking, and I have the floor. ..........................................................................................................................................
u2015-10-21-73	I'm in charge of the meeting, so he talks, everybody else listens.
u2015-10-21-74	So, Mr Attorney General, that is why it was so, and since I know this committee practice, I was forced to give my opinion in advance. Of course, I do not want to deny that there are corner points that are critical comments on our part, which in itself will not allow us to accept your report, regardless of whether we can be discussion partners on certain issues and even be persuasive. I would be happy if, next time, Mr Attorney General would have an impact on the Fidesz Commission leadership in terms of honoring you by responding to the thoughts you have raised. If you make this request to the Parliament's leadership, it will probably have an impact that we can have a real debate in committee, and not a series of revelations can only happen, as is the case in the current structure. Therefore, I would like to begin by answering the points raised by Mr Attorney General at the committee meeting. If I'm missing something, then I apologize to you, but it's been a long time. One of the things you started is that there is no category of political affairs, and you have nothing to do with that concept. What I can tell you, Mr. Attorney General, is that this may not be accurate. There would be an ideal situation where you say that although there are matters of political concern, it is clear to the contrary that there is such a thing - I will also get to the point why I think so - but the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office will treat them in the same way as other cases of public law. That's the answer, and I can tell you that it would have made sense to me. But that is not the case, so I was quite surprised, because in cases where the former politician, former politician, is the charged, suspect or accused, they are matters of political concern. I think it's pretty clear. Just as it is quite clear that cases that were campaign topics for some political forces in some electoral campaigns are matters of political concern, so much so that they were on posters. It's a fact. It's not a judgment, it's a fact. There are cases like this. The question is how the prosecution and the court handle these matters. My problem was, and the problem of our faction is that we believe that these matters of political concern are matters of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, and, above all, again, I stress that the Central Detective Prosecutor's Attorney General does not treat them as if they were not matters of political concern. That the suspect here, or possibly a politician or a politician linked to a government party, does influence the way the prosecution operates. That is what I am saying, and this part of what Mr. Attorney General is obviously going to argue, but the fact that there are such matters that you can say that is, I think, a matter of fact, and it is not debatable. On behalf of the Attorney General, the other one was the Transparency report, which overlooked the fact that what I said was not an international criticism of the prosecutor's office, but the Hungarian agency of Transparency, if you will. First of all, I have looked at it, and indeed, the Attorney General is right in this regard, but if I remember correctly, this was said at the international forum, which was the International Transparency International conference. But that is not the point, Mr Attorney General, but the fact that Transparency International has not only formulated these problems, but also GRECO. And from now on, I'm sure the criticism will become international. So when you say that these formulated criticisms, which, if I remember correctly the committee meeting, relate to the almost unlimited extension of your term of office, or to the claim that the Attorney General's right to remove individual cases from the prosecuting prosecutor without justification and to entrust the investigation to another prosecutor, or perhaps to instruct him to terminate the proceedings, was not only formulated by Transparency as a criticism, but was almost literally formulated by the Council of Europe through GRECO. So it is possible to argue whether I was wrong or not, but the international nature of this criticism is given by the fact that other international organisations have dealt with this and have reached exactly the same conclusion. That is another question, and from here on out, of course, we can argue about whose competence it is to solve this problem, your Parliament or yours. All I'm suggesting here is that if you've stood in an extraordinary way in favour of this prosecutorial law, which is now in force, is good and proper, and it's as good as it is, then what do you think about these criticisms? Because if you suggest that we amend the legislation accordingly and along this lines, then surely the Fidesz majority will take your professional position into account, and I must say that we will certainly support an amendment in this direction from our group. As a further criticism, Mr Prosecutor, if I read and look from my old notes here, why we object to the prosecution's attitude in certain criminal matters, because there is a court here that has represented your position in the judgment. That is true, Mr Attorney General, I just said that I told you now, and I said it a year ago when we talked about the accounts for a five-year period, that this cannot simply be dealt with by highlighting one of the many cases. There's a process to be seen here. And the process is - and here I will be very curious about what the final judgments will show - that the indictment in these cases is already, apparently, far from the 96,6 percent you are so proud of. It's gonna be a lot shorter. [[13.00]] Here's a question: my conclusion that the indictment in these cases won't reach 50 percent is whether or not it will be justified. But somewhere between 50 and 70, that's almost certain, at least that's what you can see from the previous judgments; especially if you look at the lines of how many final sentences have been issued up to now. I object to this process, Mr. Attorney General. Then, of course, I will be terribly curious to know that the various legal historians will process these judgments - obviously an interesting era - and that studies will be carried out about them, that they appreciate each other, and, of course, I will also be curious to say once again what the whole process will show. For me, therefore, in some cases, the court decides what the prosecutor's position is, of course. If it weren't for that, there'd be zero percent of the prosecution's success here. I note - and here I refer back - that there were a lot of opinions, not contained in the judgment, but given in the reasoning, that they were not sitting on the bench, for example, of those who were supposed to be sitting there. I don't know if there was anything else that Mr. Attorney General raised, and I couldn't answer it at the committee meeting, and I just tried to do it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I'd like to get to my critical point about the prosecution's activities a little more generally. I do not want to deal with very much statistical data this year either. I think this is a necessary part of a report, which, in good times, the Parliament has so much to do with, that it acknowledges that, if there is no particular problem with them, and, of course, the Members of Parliament express their joy at the results achieved, where, say, statistics show a more favourable trend for some types of crime. But this is obviously not the primary role of a report here, but that, at least once a year, Parliament can exercise its control function against the chief prosecutor in a slightly more serious time frame. I would like to ask you a question on this point, as Mr Attorney General said one day, and I also suggested at the committee meeting that migrant affairs will cause you so much pressure that you will not be able to bear this burden beyond the end of the year, so from January, if you do not have budget coverage for this. I would like to ask Mr Attorney General if he has spoken with the representatives of the government and if you will be given such a budget supplement, because this obviously must be of interest to the Parliament, because it is a question of the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office. What I would like to do further: in general, I can say that we have not seen any meaningful changes in the work of the prosecution compared to the last five years or to four years that we have talked about in the previous report. This is partly a compliment to those prosecutors who are basically involved in law enforcement and acting as a representative of the prosecution in the courts and performing other duties of the prosecution, and we also respectfully thank all of the prosecutors for their work. Unfortunately, the fact is that this is also true of the prosecutors' office and the Central Detective Attorney General's Office's activities, the criticisms that we made a year ago in the House walls. First of all, the practice that the pen will be quite different for the prosecution when it comes to dealing with opponents of the government, and in a much different way, much softer when it is born against pro-government corruption, let us say, a complaint or a complaint is filed. I am thinking here, say, about land affairs, but in this respect I am pointing out that my fellow Members will talk about these matters in concrete terms, so I do not wish to discuss this further. However, I would like to point out that today, in principle, the prosecutor's office has given up - at least in the last year that we are discussing - on prosecuting and accusing pro-government politicians. But it's been five years since this side was on the steering wheel. Of course, they still had enemies for the government, so now it's the civilians' turn. I do not claim, Mr. Attorney General, that this idea comes essentially from you, but I say that you were involved in the supervision of an investigation where the court once condemned the proceedings, so you declared it illegal, and perhaps yesterday or the day before that news is that, in the absence of a NAV investigation, the investigation of the Eco-partner was terminated. Not in the absence of evidence, not because someone else committed the crime, but simply because of the lack of a crime, which means that those who are not lawyers should also understand that the NAV said that there was no crime in this case. Compared to this, the Ökotárs Alapítvány was overrun, the Ökotárs Alapítvány was yanked, by the way, along with other civilians, and all by the fact that the prosecutor's office had investigative oversight of these proceedings. I'll ask Mr. Attorney General how it's possible. Another issue - and certainly not the prosecution's report - is that this political responsibility will certainly have to be borne by some, especially by Nándor Csepreghy, who probably has now been awarded State Secretary from Deputy State Secretary to honour his merits, but we deeply condemn this career journey, but I say this is not relevant. The other thing I would like to highlight, Mr Attorney General, and I also did at the committee meeting, is the so-called ban scandal. The ban scandal, where you failed to obtain any tangible information from the United States of America by the Hungarian investigating authority. But if this has not been achieved, Mr. Attorney General, you tell me that there is not enough suspicion for you that the United States, which is perhaps the world's number one power, claims that the Hungarian tax authority is subject to organised, institutional corruption. Isn't that enough for you to open an investigation? [[Lajos Korózs: Shame!]] It is not enough to at least instruct the NAV to see if there is anything here or not, whether there is a basis or no basis for this. The fact that the Supreme Prosecutor has done nothing but defy me in this case is completely unacceptable, in my view. I just want to ask you if you have managed to read the study by the Attorney General or his colleagues that I recommended to them at the committee meeting about the abuse of the tax authority in Hungarian Law. This really is a prestigious Hungarian science paper. Perhaps here, too, the information that is almost entirely specific about where a crime might have occurred and the type of crime within the tax authority, at least it would be worth considering to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office or to the prosecution's organisation, and to see if there really was a crime there, otherwise in addition to the numerous complaints. I would just like to say a word about the results of the prosecution: for 96.6%, I can say that I generally find this 96 percent to be particularly problematic and troublesome, but it is not the prosecution's fault. I think that this could be discussed as a criticism of judicial practice and not as a criticism of the prosecution's report. I'd like to put it on the table here, because it's here and it's always here, and I find it extremely unhealthy that it's such a high ratio, and this is a sign of problems. The remark made by my fellow Member of Vitány, who is no longer in this Chamber, is that the fact that the foreign opinion of the prosecution is more favourable than that of the national prosecutor is that the opposition is intriguing. I don't think so. It is about Hungarians seeing what is happening here. I do not believe that the scheming of the opposition - if this word can be used at all - would have a significant impact on the prosecution's judgment. [[13.10]] To sum up, Mr Attorney General, I can say that, unfortunately, nothing has changed after the last five years in the last year, which is the subject of this report. For this reason, the MSZP faction, listening to and considering the arguments that Mr Attorney General has made at the committee meeting and has now formulated in his exposé, we will not be able to support it. I would like to emphasise once again, not because the statistical data would be wrong, or we would not be able to appreciate that the number of offences is decreasing in certain cases, but because we do not feel it, and indeed we feel the opposite of the fact that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office would act impartially and solely on the basis of the law and in the spirit thereof. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-21-75	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, is coming. Here.
u2015-10-21-76	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Deputy Attorney General and Attorney General, First of all, when such a report is placed on the Parliament's table and this is to be discussed, the first word must be thanks. Thanks to prosecutors, assistant prosecutors, authors, or even administrative staff, who handle 1 million 160,000 cases per year, or to the organisation under which 1876 prosecutors and, overall, 4,800 people work. In this case, they will certainly be thanked and thanked for the fact that a very detailed and, by the way, important and talkative report has been submitted to the Parliament, in which we can finally see up-to-date data from the year 2014, how much and how they fulfilled their duties or professional obligations, the expectations of you. In any case, we thank you for detailing and describing the criminal, public-law, international relations, social relations and professional, scientific work carried out by the prosecution. It would be very important for certain parts of the population to get to know it, or at least take the effort to get to know it, as we talk about it very well, either as a lawyer or as a Member of Parliament, about what data there are, but for example, the tables that we can find at the end of it, I think that every citizen should be browsing. Perhaps you would understand a little more about the operation of crime, or the operation of state law enforcement authorities, and otherwise you would be able to judge, for example, where you live - and take a simple example - why people are less inclined to comply voluntarily with the pre-emption and why, for example, there are so many cases of pre-leading in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County or Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. So such small things can certainly be peeled out of it, so it would be worthwhile for everyone to film them so that they can come into the picture with the present life, with the present situation. Allow me to mention, first of all, a few interesting parts which, I think, will rightly contain tougher words, and perhaps not unusual in this debate, nor was it unusual in the debate of almost five years of accounts not so long ago. In a similar tone, similar style, and much similar content, the criticisms that concern the prosecutor's office, which now, in this case, affects the person of the Attorney General or his person, because at the top of the organization, we do not say that he is the one person responsible for it, but as its leader, he is the one who is responsible for it, and he is entitled to take action in it. So the first thing we need to do is clarify what the prosecution's judgment is. In addition to the definition of the prosecutor's office as a lawyer or as a result of the Fundamental Law, or as a result of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office itself, it is not worth considering because it is otherwise known and has a broad definition of very diverse and very high content. However, what is the view of the prosecution in real life and through people is more worthwhile to say that from this we can find a content that is born in the public mood, generally in the minds of people, from the prosecutor's office, and it is not worth hiding in this, either, that it is largely from media accounts, high-profile cases, media interests, that come out of high-profile cases, in which politicians, public figures are involved, and on which people are trying to learn about the general activities of the prosecution. By the way, it's also wrong, because it doesn't represent 1-2 percent of the prosecution's case, but it still affects their judgment, your judgment, on some level. Nor can it be said that many people in this country feel that it is a ruthless tool of the prosecution, a ruthless weapon of the government against certain political and certain public figures, and in many cases this generalization is drawn, even if 98 percent of the prosecution or 99 percent of the prosecutor's office does not deal with it, but it is cases of 1-2 percent of high interest that can affect the public mood. So this is the basis for the public sentiment that now gives the Supreme Prosecutor, the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office under it. Let us look at some examples that came up at the end of the previous year - perhaps just at the end of the year - then as a current case, we can now say in view of the 2014 cases. For example, in 2014 it was not possible to rid itself of the otherwise bad precedent of the fact that the election was very close to being taken by prosecutors, let us say, in the case of politically highlighted actors. The D.A.'s office comes in, or they start doing some kind of investigative action when there's a very close call for an election. This was the case in previous municipal elections, in the case of elections to the European Parliament, but also before the parliamentary elections. It is important to pay attention to these, in so far as such luxury and professional luxury cannot be allowed by the prosecutor's office, if, by the way, he is trying to imagine himself as an organization far from politics, which, by the way, I believe, has always been encoded into the prosecution because his close relationship with the government or the executive authority was indisputable. In such spectacular, eye-catching cases, we can say: it was not only that events near the election took place, but that they did not investigate, even though they were clearly well-founded, visible and easily judged by ordinary people less familiar with the law, we can say that there were suspected cases of crime, yet the prosecution was reluctant to act, to investigate, and, indeed, to me, to escape from these situations many times, with shocking explanations. We heard legal arguments that made a man's hair burn in many cases. Of course, this is not the case in general for prosecutors' activities, but I'm telling you, public life generally focuses on them. These were typically corruption cases - we can say that regardless of party policy, because there were left-wing and right-wing players involved here - cases that could not be represented effectively and well in 2014. For example, the Hunvald case, which continued in 2014, in which we can see, as the Internet portal said, that the whole case has slowly become a hen theft lawsuit or weakened. I believe that in this, if a person consistently looks at the network of acts committed there, its physical weight, and consistently carries them through, he should not be regarded as a hen-stealing business, but rather as a more forceful action, because the state must show anti-corruption in accordance with both political expectations and social expectations, so the resolution of these matters, such and similar matters, is particularly important. But we could also say the Sukoro case, which has been mentioned several times today, and I am very sorry that, by the way, in the previous debate, the DK representative sitting behind us said at exactly the worst time. Now you could ask what your opinion was about what was going on there, because it was also outrageous that the Sukoro case was as serious and heavy as the Sukoro case... - although this was not a question of the prosecution in this case, what kind of changes in the negotiating venue were, in this, we can say, the Parliament itself created a law that was not fortunate. By the way, at the time of the creation, it was pointed out that this would not be appropriate or result in a full acceleration that we were waiting for, and the Sukoro case showed well that, as I cannot say better, clowns in the Szolnok court, the Szolnok court, they were not worthy of the otherwise high-profile case in which the public demanded a very strict accounting and strict accountability, strict action against corruption. In this, although the prosecutor's role was limited, it should be mentioned that a tougher attitude was also needed on their part. [[13.20]] The BKV case is slowly the veterinary horse in this case. I think today - I can't say the exact time - is already on the seventh indictment, the only case that has ever been dealt with with a nokisian box. This BKV case went the same way last year, the same part - we can use it again - was part of the clowning, which seems to indicate a slow or stalled accounting, or slowed down, stalled corruption eradication. They all shared a common element of political involvement, political involvement, but also the fact that we seem to be faced with a very often political way of administration, at least that is what the public and those who have less insight into it see behind it, and that is what they can see behind it. There has been no accountability in these cases, and one of the results of such cases is that now, in his speech between the walls of the Parliament, a representative politicalizing in DK colours, who is otherwise independent, and perhaps not even able to get in, or perhaps his party president could no longer be at large, if it were to be said so, attacks judicial independence with an open helmet, which must also be rejected. All of this would not have happened if someone had taken the accountability seriously, and the prosecution had grown up to this task more seriously than they did, and had not tried to deal with these matters politically tinted or driven by political definition. That is what I see in this, but of course I am also curious about the answer of the Attorney General. I think that none of the cases are unknown, because it has been mentioned several times in the House walls, and he himself has answered several times, and his deputy has also responded in these matters. It should also be mentioned that what we have just heard from our fellow Member from Vitány is a good example of the government's attitude, and what was said yesterday in Lajos Kósa's statement, which is a total - I say not that it is not a skill, but - a kick-off. He said that corruption was essentially eradicated and that corruption could no longer be discussed in substance, as Fidesz's activities have eliminated it. I'm about to find the quote from which I can literally quote Lajos Kósa's words on this subject. It was shocking to hear these things, too. This is not right either, because in the same way as in health care - I also deal with health - a health institution says that it has no infection, it should be suspected that the problem is the biggest, because they do not keep their statistics on it, or they do not take into account at all what kind of infections they were. Where they say there's no infection, there's probably the biggest problem. Where it is stated that corruption has been eradicated or that corruption can no longer be discussed in substance, because measures have been taken, in this case it is a total misconception, and it seems that corruption has become more or more, rather than less. When we talk about corruption: in the last week and in the last few days, the governing parties have been pleasantly surrounded by the shadow of this in the context of the better speeches, as the governing party has received quite a lot of these. They've been telling me why Jobbik hasn't filed a complaint in these cases or filed a complaint. Well, Jobbik filed a complaint against all cases where he had detected a violation of law, which he thought would have to be criminally held accountable. And Jobbik did this not only in Budapest, but also in significant rural affairs. The Jobbik took advantage of the device Fidesz said had solved party funding. They may have solved party funding, but the presence of business parties, which we experienced during the 2014 elections, is not solved at all. Jobbik has therefore also filed a complaint concerning the business parties who have not yet been able to account for it, and may never be, because they do not want to account for the state aid they have used to run the elections. But it was Jobbik who also prevented the peaceful retirement of Rezső Rumány and Béla Biszku, especially because we believe that what was and is in their case, as well as the lack of legislation, is brazenness. Thank you very much, of course, for taking the paper in this case - if you will - in a gown, if you will - and for Béla Biszku's case, he stands firm for his responsibility. But there is also the case of György Mátsik. In this case, Jobbik also filed a complaint. But Jobbik also filed a complaint in criminal matters, which, in our view, are not, for the time being, criminal matters, although due to a different interpretation of prosecutor's law. These are the constant and constant abuse of the Holy Crown, which in 2014 became an entire industry. There were shopping units in a shopping mall where they used to advertise or sell such products, but there was also an art exhibition where, in the framework of artistic freedom, the Sacred Crown was portrayed as a representation of another object in this way, it would cause worthy indignation. This somehow did not hit the threshold of public life, but the D.A. does not attach any importance to it and does not give it any particular legal protection. But Jobbik has filed a complaint - I say this because if the Fidesz Members who are sitting here will remember it when they say that we encourage our better fellow Members to report any irregularities; we will report them - also in the case of the SZDSZ in relation to their headquarters. Or, for example, there is the case of the Children's Cancer Foundation, known to all, which also caused a huge public uproar. And these, we can say, are not political, they are public affairs. In these cases, each one of them, it was misguided, blindsided, even though it was rightly, and I think it was entirely justified, whether it was a layman or a professional, that he expected accountability from the prosecutor's office, and that he expected the investigating authorities to be held accountable, so that they could detect an obvious abuse and punish the person responsible for this matter. But can we ask the question: if that's the case, who's counting Ferenc Gyurcsány? Who's counting Hunvald? Who will judge Matsik? Who's gonna be the one who's gonna represent the case properly in their case? Or who's going to stand up to the Holy Crown Violators? But we could also say municipal matters in Makón or in the 18th. in the district. Jobbik - whether it's a common law crime, or whether it's a corruption case - has constantly filed its charges. To sum up, it seems that the government's prosecutor's office has assisted at some level in support of Fidesz's own political credo, the political credo of the governing parties, assisted in what the Fidesz said no to. Fidesz said no to eliminating corruption. In this context, the urgency must be given, that there is zero tolerance to corruption, but also to any other crime, and that we expect more effective and more unpolitical operation from the prosecution's organisation through the Attorney General's Office. But there are other criticisms that are positive or improved at some level. The previous ones were also formulated to make sure that the prosecutor's office learns from them, and to learn their own role constantly, year after year, and to interpret their own place, how to work. Other professional criticism worth drawing attention to is that it is very important for the public to understand this: we need to do something about topics such as the number of radically increased traffic offences. In recent years, only drunk driving crimes have increased by 40%. In 2014, there was a real major leap out in this respect of traffic offences. This 40 percent increase came out as the number of cases increased from 8891 to 12,500. But another interesting aspect is the rise in the number of people smuggling. The number of smuggling has not only increased to 2014, but has also been rising steadily in 2013. If someone was looking at these reports or looking at the number of the prosecutor's office, it is far from clear that there was already an increasing migratory pressure on Hungary, and there was no accident that people who entered Hungary illegally, or those who entered the European Union illegally... - the proceedings against those involved in their change of situation did not jump by accident. I believe that in this debate, Jobbik alone makes the argument that going backwards - and the leap in these figures for history - has shown well that something is boiling, something is about to happen at the borders of Europe, which then hit this year. And it is safe to say that the left on the false problem, or the parties sweeping under the carpet for a long time, could have seen from this data, which Jobbik had seen much earlier. The rise in the number of crime-related smuggling shows that there was an increasing pressure in Hungary. And it will be really good to look forward to the answer to how the prosecution will cope - but I think we will see this only in later years - how it copes with the crimes caused by illegal immigrants, the numbers of this burden. It'll be great if the Attorney General answers that. This does not belong to your 2014 report, of course, but while we are here, you can mention this in your response to the increase in human trafficking. [[13.30]] It is a alarming fact that there has been an increase in the number of crimes against justice, and it is also an alarming fact that the authority's perception is still rather rampant. For years, the police have been on the prosecution's side, but the court has been fighting all the time: what can't be taken for someone else is being investigated, investigated, and almost every case runs out of control. Thus, it is virtually unbroken in recent times, and it can be said that slowly at the level of the district court, every second case is a criminal offence or a misdemeanor. Perhaps by redefining this disorder, perhaps by clarifying the borders, perhaps by rethinking the whole situation, it would be worth doing something, since almost all border cases are already in jeopardy, it works like a great river. This profile must be resisted or cleaned in some way. I think that this should also be addressed, so if there is a question on the part of the Attorney General's Office, then I think that legislation will have the capacity to rethink the abuse where appropriate, because we can see that not only its general wording, but also its integration into the procedure system, which I do not think is right, because it is either a regulatory framework or a very plausible and flexible regulation. We talked about corruption in part. Indeed, there is a trend in corruption - and here we can say that the increase in political corruption, on the basis of the number of cases, is, in fact, undisputable. Nor can it be said that it may have been the Transparent blog who first got the idea that it was a very serious decrease in numbers. This trend may seem to turn around now, but at the time, the situation may have seemed to be that in the tragic numbers of political corruption cases, the number of rejections of complaints and the elimination of investigations has increased to almost three times, two times. We now see these figures a little differently or in the light of the recent accounts. We can say that in the past - perhaps I wouldn't start from this, from the statistics of the new year or from the statistics of the current report - it seemed that if the investigative bodies were the eyes of the truth, so they would be the eyes themselves, then three times, I say badly, the prosecutor's office was more blind in these cases, and it was twice as bad to recognize or see these cases, so insight must be increased in corruption and selective poor vision should be reduced in this respect. Returning indeed to Lajos Kósa's speech, which came as a response to the day of corruption, the government's actions made corruption pointless: this sentence in itself really runs this way, as if it were no longer necessary to deal with corruption at the level of prosecutors or investigators. Of course, I am very pleased that we may have been able to generate a debate from this, because it is very important to talk about corruption, because we need to discuss it. This may be the biggest swamp of the past twenty-five years of Hungarian public life, its largest mate, which always reaches up, and always drags public life, the characters of public life, into the swamp. So this part needs to be clarified, clarified, and discussed, for example, why the leader of the Fidesz faction does not see the forest from the woods, or, if you will, the jungle of corruption, because saying that the government's action has made corruption pointless, it seems to be thrown away from today's reality, from reality. Continuing with the criticisms, and these, as I said, are benevolent, improving criticisms, it is certainly a good recognition from the High Prosecutor's Office that efficiency should be increased in relation to consumer and consumer harm. There is also a need to increase efficiency because information technology developments and the continuous development, growth and progress of criminals in this area open up a new and new section for them: new and new types of crime, newer types of crime, which harm both consumers and consumers. So in this area, the prosecution will also have to pick up an increased pace and twist it at the pace, because with these criminals, law enforcement can only keep up with the investigating authority if it develops itself to these systems of devices with a proper background in information technology and proper innovator thinking, which, unfortunately, is done by criminals who are peeking at consumers and shoppers. It is certainly worth knowing that there is still a professional organizational challenge in the D.A.'s office. For example, it would be worth clarifying - and perhaps the Attorney General can answer that - how they can keep pace with the criminal justice that you mentioned, raised by the courts, because there was a marked increase in speed. We also see that it is absolutely necessary - and this is an old, I think, very long staff debate, if you like, how much more staff, how much more prosecutors, how much more employees are needed; this would be worth explaining. Will there be enough people to handle and play the role of otherwise increasing criminal justice by the prosecution, even though they often take part in the proceedings without having to participate in the trial, for example, but the prosecutor is still there? I think it is very important to highlight the more effective use of the mediation procedure. Of course, it is not only up to the prosecutor's office whether the mediation procedure works effectively or whether a procedure can be directed to the mediation procedure, but, if you like, the prosecution must also prefer an easier form of procedure, the number of cases that can run this way or can be dealt with in these cases should be further increased. So, in comparison with all this, and looking at it, we can see what kind of picture the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office is going to draw on its 2014 accounts, and what kind of picture will be taken of the prosecutor's office itself. I think that what the Jobbik Movement considered important to mention is all critical remarks from which it is absolutely necessary to learn; on the one hand, because the role of the prosecution is important, how it stands in political relations, and it is also important for the prosecution to take effective steps to ensure the cleanliness of public life. Now we can safely say that in order to eliminate political corruption of the quarter-century, it will certainly be necessary for the prosecution to operate without political influence and to act decisively. So I would certainly like to put these improved proposals to your attention. I am pleased that the Attorney General is able to answer the questions that have been raised here, where appropriate, with the conclusion of the keynote circles, insofar as the debate gives us the opportunity to have a good debate or a professional debate, and not to be in a position to receive a general assessment only at the end of the debate, and to no longer be able to respond in return. In view of what has been said, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will not surprise us - and I think our position here is unbroken - that it will not support the report. Nevertheless, we want the prosecution to work more effectively, better and more effectively in the area of corruption. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-21-77	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I note that no more keynote speakers have applied for a speech, so we have reached the end of the lead speakerial round. An independent Member of Parliament is not in the room, so there is a two-minute comment; this is what MEP Tamás Harangozó, MSZP, applied for. Here.
u2015-10-21-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, A year ago, you had a rather exhaustive report or report here in Parliament, and you said in your reply that you could not answer a few, even many, specific cases here because you did not know much and you would reply in writing later. This has happened, but how satisfying it was in substance is another question. I would like to return to you on one question that has been said here - my colleagues will ask the rest - and this is the trade-off. I would like to ask the Attorney General with great respect about the case that exploded two and a half years ago, with the publication of a recording made in March 2013, where István Horváth, a Fidesz MP, then mayor of the time, showed that he was handing out the state trade-concession with fellow politicians, and then the entrepreneurs received it, and those who said that they could not receive it, did not receive the concession. [[13.40]] I would like to ask you with great respect whether, in two and a half years, we have managed to move forward with some investigative action in this matter. Did you find out if István Horváth was on the recording? I'll help you: Him, because he didn't deny it. Did you find out if the people there really got it? I'll help you: it's common knowledge, they got it. Did you manage to find out how István Horváth got the information to the decision-makers - if it got there - and how could it be the huge coincidence that this decision was made? Through who? What did they even get under two and a half? Is the investigation going in the right direction? Can the Attorney General tell us when an indictment or an act of public interest can be expected? Either way, it was the fact - and in front of the whole country - that it was a seven - test scoundrel thing, as it was conducted, that thousands and tens of thousands of people, families, were destroyed. Finally, I ask Mr. President for half a minute, a few seconds in person. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] After the Defense and Police Committee has been called for two hours, it's not disrespectful to you, but if you don't tell me your answer now, I can't wait for you, Mr. Attorney General. I'll be briefing you through my colleagues. That's the only way parliament works these days. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-10-21-79	Thank you very much. Everyone, please respect the time frame provided by the house rules. We will return to the speakers that have been announced. The first among these will be Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to apologize to you for having so much interest from Fidesz-KDNP and other parties in today's agenda. The reports of the Curia, the court and the prosecution are on the agenda, and there are no pro-government representatives on the agenda, and I would say that if KDNP were to run alone in the elections, there would be about as many people in Parliament as there were today in the debate. That's zero. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I keep an eye on the detection of cases that have become known in connection with the 2014 municipal election, which are intended to influence the results of the votes. I do this in order to inform our constituents, but also the wider public, about the discovery and moral and legal consequences of these events that are fundamentally affecting public confidence. I recall earlier that the police, the prosecutor's office, in matters relating to politics and elections, were remarkably public when they came to the public with unmistakable timing and content, accusing a number of local politicians since then of being legally acquitted, and, even in unclear circumstances, confidential information about investigations has been made in well-defined media. I went to the accounts of the President of the National Election Committee and the National Election Office on the Judicial Committee and asked my questions about how many cases of electoral fraud have been initiated. Then I asked the Attorney General in writing, and I would quote from the answer. In 81 settlements in the counties, six districts were reported in the capital. I received the following answer: 51 of the criminal proceedings ended with the termination of the investigation, two cases were suspended, 30 cases were pending, one case was finalized, and one case was brought before the court. I received this reply on 8 May 2015. I would like to comment specifically on a case in Budapest, the VI. I would like to ask you again about abuses in the district of Terézváros, Mr Prosecutor, because I have received your reply this week that you cannot inform me of ongoing cases, but I think that we need to talk about these matters within the walls of Parliament. On 29 September 2014, a complaint was made for reasons of clarity only in relation to election fraud. On the basis of the evidence provided by the complaint, Fidesz-KDNP passed on the sensitive data of voters to the Hungarian Civil Party of the Social Democrats who had already ceased to exist, which used them on the recommendation sheets in the form of the signing of their candidates. The very large number of cases and the extremely short course of action demonstrate that this could only be done in an organised way, in a coordinated form between the two nominating organisations. However, the investigating authority has already considered the need to take the necessary steps until evidence of destruction has almost reached its end. As a matter of fact, it was only the prosecution's report that led the investigative bodies to seize the recommendation sheets in mid-January 2015 at 24 hours, which fully demonstrate that the fraud had taken place. Since then, the investigation has continued, and I understand that in the context of mass witness hearings, the authority has verified the authenticity of the recommendations and signatures, but no information has been made to the local electorate, even though it is inevitable that they have abused their support, cheated on the elections. On this basis, I ask you to provide the electorate, through me, with substantial information on the extension of the investigative time limits that are already required, with all the findings that may be revealed on the basis of the investigation that has been carried out so far, without prejudice to further detection. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I would like to remind you that in the last five years, a number of cases, which have ruffled public life, which have destroyed public confidence, and which call into question the purity of public life, have failed or continue to be completely excluded from the public. Each new event may be able to nuance, even improve, the image of certain bodies and actors of the judiciary before the public. In my view, the deception of elections is an issue which raises doubts not only about the fair and legitimate functioning of individuals and organisations, but also questions the fair and legitimate functioning of the system. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, The D.A.'s office as an investigative body or as one of the main depositaries of the investigating body is the maintenance of public confidence. The 2014 municipal elections - perhaps not by accident - have in many cases become an area of abuse and electoral fraud. Here, I would like to tell you the only data that was mentioned in the Commission's report that about HUF 2 billion was fined after the parliamentary elections, and only 2% of it could be recovered by the NAV to this day. Are you okay with this? Or can it not be said that this electoral law is precisely an opportunity for the small parties, which breed so-called mushroom, to commit election fraud? I would also like to ask you if you are considering these cases, how this could have happened, and whether this amount can be collected at all. In about 15 cases, nearly a year after the votes, they are still investigating what happened at the time, while the inhabitants of the settlements concerned, their voters, in many cases, know nothing about whether their current representatives have obtained the mandate fairly. There is a need for an explanation of the general and specific circumstances which, to this extent, hinder the effective conclusion of investigations. In recent years, investigative bodies have been able to inform the public about the main investigative activities, the initiation of proceedings, the disclosure of suspicions, the extension of the time limit for the investigation, the termination of the investigation, the prosecution. In priority cases, even political ones, the prosecution's office, the police's activity were part of the communication usually at an unmistakable time, and the information leaked from the investigative bodies was always from the direction of well-defined media. In fact, we also remember that there were always cameras of a certain media, when politicians were carried on board in such procedures; it is true that after the acquittals, the prosecution was not nearly as open, we do not know what moral and apparently financial compensation was made for the unfounded accusations. There has been a significant change in trend in the latest municipal elections. Detectives, prosecutors, they're covered in conspicuous silence. The cleanliness of elections is the cornerstone of the credibility of the chosen body. It is also essential to have a voter confidence in the fair functioning of the system. This can only be obtained and maintained if quick and reassuring information is given to voters in dubious situations. [[13.50]] Can they be confronted with the fact that there is no way to provide clarification in the current case? How does the interests of the investigation relate to the interests of citizens, how far does public confidence go if they do not trust to find out the truth? Here again, I would like to point out that more than a year has passed since the elections. After the municipal elections, the mandates were allocated. The representatives and mayors who have been in office have been active for a year, while some have a dubious mandate. Can these people, elected by the public, fill in their mandates? Then, after years, will it only reveal the actions, persons, that are trying to draw the elections away harshly? Those who have broken the rules of choice, how do they use their vows, what are the limits to their operation? Why does the law not expect the electoral bodies to verify the authenticity of the signatures? We can almost certainly say that there have been several cases of electoral fraud. The evidence was already seized in a moaning manner, in the 24th hour, in the aforementioned case, but I might add that in my own district, in the county of Hajdú-Bihar, in Bishop's Lady, almost the same thing happened. Here I would like to know from the Attorney General whether, a year after the elections, we can hope that we will have answers to these questions, that these matters will be closed as soon as possible. And isn't it, Mr. Attorney General, before 2019, that we're not going to find out what the truth was before the municipal elections are reopened? I hope that I will have a comforting answer to my questions. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-81	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We would now have a two-minute turn, but no one has signed up for this genre, so we will continue the work of the Parliament with the announced speakers. Here comes Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP. Here.
u2015-10-21-82	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Assistant Attorney General, Lords! I was very pleased when the Attorney General pointed out in his report that they considered the issue of environmental protection to be important and that they would look more seriously at all submissions concerning such matters. Which is why I would like to bring up a problem for you from my county, which we have already signalled to the Attorney General, hoping that the prosecution may have missed some data, some thoughts, and indicating that environmental protection is really a very, very important issue, so we need to look deep and intensely into these matters. In October 2014, the president of the MSZP in Szekszárd reported on the irregular operation of the landfill in Cikó and the pollution caused by it. Due to the failure of the waste storage facility, the amount of waste water generated is multiple of the amount allowed. According to the relevant rules, the operator should have ensured the transport and disposal of this large amount of waste water. Instead, for a period of time at night, substances harmful to the environment were released through a concrete channel likely to have been built for this purpose into the Crab Creek, through which they caused damage to additional water areas. Once this was discovered, the accumulated waste water was transported from the landfill area by tank cars. Ákos Hadházy, local councilman in Szekszárd, witnessed a tanker loaded, leaving the waste storage area with the dangerous cargo, but when the driver noticed that he was being followed, he turned back and returned the waste water to the plant. After this incident, the municipal representative was not allowed to enter the landfill area; a video footage attached to the complaint shows that the representative was not allowed to enter because Ács Rezső personally forbade it - he is the mayor of Szekszárd today. Even the fact that a municipal representative is not allowed into a public-funded facility operated by the municipality raises significant doubts about the operation in compliance with the legal requirements, in our opinion. Last September, this Member was the one in Szekszárd who, along with the reporters of the Internet newspaper Index, was chased by an employee of the site with a grip machine. The staff of the Index recorded the entire sequence of events, and the Bonyhádi Police Department initiated an investigation on the basis of the congressman's complaint. The telephone records of the investigation revealed that at the time of these events the site operator was kft. His head immediately called Mayor Rezső Ács, and after he failed to reach Mayor Rezső Ács, the CEO also called István Horváth, the mayor of Szekszárd at the time, to consult on whether the municipal representative could then be admitted to the site. As I said, we're talking public money, a local government-run establishment where the city council rep wasn't allowed in on the mayor's orders. I think that also raises a lot of questions. However, we know that the possible involvement of Rezső Ács and István Horváth has not been investigated until today. Rezső Ács, the current mayor of Szekszárd was also aware, as Chairman of the Cikó Waste Management Association, of the fact that there was much more waste water than permitted in the defective container, but did not take timely action to discharge in accordance with the legislation. The investigation on suspicion of environmental damage was terminated by Tolna County Police on April 2, because they believe the act is not a crime. For example, the decision does not reveal whether a soil test of the Crab Creek basin has been carried out, how much hazardous material should be in the container, and how the potential difference may arise. In the context of the transportation of waste water with tank cars, the explanation provided by the stakeholders was uncritically accepted that the sewage was moved only on the premises and, in the case recorded by the representative, the authority was convinced that the driver of the tanker had left the premises because his pump ran out of fuel and went out to buy food. It would be possible to check the fuel bills to see if the driver was on his way to gas, because I'm guessing suddenly there was no fuel in the vehicle, but this request didn't happen. The complaint was rejected by the District Attorney's Office in Bonyhad on the grounds that the complainant could not be considered as a victim of the act. As a resident of Szekszárd, after pollution affects his life, we believe he may have acted as a victim of the crime. At the same time, the prosecution also referred to the arguments set out in the complaint in the grounds for its decision; the prosecutor's view is shockingly irrelevant from the point of view of criminal proceedings to the fact that the explanation of the abandonment of the driver of the tank truck filled on wastewater is factual or not relevant. The D.A. did not attach any importance to the fact that, from the report of an independent environmental analysis laboratory, we can also learn that there are marked differences in the sediment of the Crab Creek in respect of two components, nitrate and organic solvent, above and below the channel connection. I think this is a case that, if environmental protection is important to the prosecution, it will look more closely and look more closely at who and how it affects the outcome of a case. But I think that Hungary will continue to be classified by the OECD as a group of countries which have limited implementation of the Foreign Bribery Convention. I very much hope that there will be a change in this, and we can also prove to the OECD that this is not the country where such things can happen. Another matter that is very important to me, and I have raised it here many times in the walls of Parliament, and this problem has been raised many times already in the previous cycle, since four years have passed since the MSZP Democracy Centre filed a complaint by KSE Kft. in his scandal - in the billing scandal where nearly 100 percent of the local government owned kft. a contract for marketing and advertising purposes with three companies that did not have this activity in their portfolio. According to the four-party municipal inquiry committee, the three companies received a total of HUF 298 million in public money over two years. In the case, as I said, the MSZP Democracy Center has filed a complaint. What you need to know about this company is that the deputy mayor responsible for the management of Kecskemét companies, who today is called Kecskemét's mayor, Szemereyné Pataki Klaudia - I refer to the conclusion of marketing contracts - who has been a great success since then, since he was a Member of Parliament in the place of György Matolcsy, and now the mayor of Kecskemét. [[14.00]] However, there is still no decision in this case, although we can see that when it comes to making big news, they can take people in a case involving Louis the Pigeons in public with cuffs on their hands, and in cases where nothing happens in four years, because there is no demand for it, and there we can really see that people feel that nothing more serious is happening and nothing is happening in the case. The only thing we know from the recent newspaper articles is that the investigation is closed, six people suspected of being mistreated, and the investigating authority is filing charges against them. The damage was HUF 450 million in this case. If you add to this amount the claims registered by KSE's superintendent, you can charge an additional HUF 335 million in close value. If we add this up, it's 800 million forints. People on Kecskemét have a lot on their mind. It just feels really bad, and the problem is that people feel bad when they see that in a case where political names can be heard and political names arise, things happen more slowly there, or if they don't slow down, investigations will end faster. The problem is that I think we should disperse people with this bad feeling, disperse them, not feel that the OECD abroad is right about this thing, that something like this can happen here. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-83	Thank you very much. Mr. László Szakács, MSZP. Here.
u2015-10-21-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Deputy Lords, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little surprised at that weak interest, too. [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.]] It's about the Attorney General's report. I think that my fellow Member should press a two-minute button, and then we will hear it, too, and we will be able to respond if he gives his opinion. What I'd like to talk about, however, has been said before me. They say it's a political-free and predictable prosecution, a political-free and predictable prosecution, that's what we need in order to restore public confidence or trust the purity of public life. Last year, the Attorney General, if indirectly, warned us not to bring individual cases here to Parliament. However, there is certainly no problem with the type of technical report, Mr Attorney General, which he is bringing us, because there must be data in it that can be supported, and I am sure that it would be very difficult to argue with them. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Yet, when we look at this, we see that it is the individual cases that shape the public discourse, and in the case of public speaking, or that it is the individual cases and the perception of these individual cases in the public discourse, I think that is much more important than the crime statistics, the performance indicators, the efficiency indicators that you see. It also certainly weighs a lot on the situation, and on the effectiveness of reconnaissance, but I think the most important thing would be for your institution, the High Prosecutor's Office, to have public confidence, and I am afraid that at the moment - a number of cases have been listed here by my colleagues, and I think they will - we are not doing well in this. It is not good for us to see a lot of politically motivated cases or to die out of political motivation. We cannot say that this type of work is unpolitical, and I think that is the most important. One more thing, Mr. Attorney General, we must be at war. More people think that public opinion and the public should be informed much more widely. I tell you honestly, even arguing with my fellow Members, sometimes I think that this should be done in a sufficient way, because sometimes, when you do not inform the public at all, things happen with the exclusion of the public - of course, professional reasons and the interests of the investigation - sometimes, however, you do nothing when specific protocols are published on the Internet, we read reports on Internet portals. Neither the names are hidden, but not even the detective's name and rank are hidden in these records, which are accessible by anyone, appears on blogs and portals. Well, I think we're just gonna go over the other side of the horse here. I think, Mr. Attorney General, that there must be something in this. An optimal information and to enable the public to exercise its restrictive function, such a level of involvement is certainly necessary. I'm not good at this kind of fuss. Last year we brought up so many individual cases that, obviously, Mr. Attorney General has given reason to say that, of course, he is far from in the depth of the matter so that he can answer us orally here, and I think that we all felt good about his promise to answer us in writing. I would also like to say that we were even more formally pleased that we actually received these letters, compared to the current government operation. [[In the notary seat Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced by Dezső Believing.]] Then, when we opened these letters, we saw that, in fact, the Attorney General describes to us what is right, because it happened, but we know the facts. We argue that it was the right thing to do, and we couldn't explain it. I then brought up the matter of the Pécs Waterworks, where my colleague Bertalan Tóth filed a complaint. The case may not need to be presented, the director of the Pécs Waterworks has simply been thrown out of his office if I now simplify the question and the facts. First, my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, received a letter from the prosecutor's office regarding his complaint to attach his evidence. This is a very difficult thing to understand in criminal law, where there is a investigating authority, and the investigating authority and the prosecution in one state consider it to be an exclusive competence, that only he can investigate and no one else can investigate. And then, complaining about it, accepting this kind of argument, that the investigating authority is probably there to investigate, they didn't ask the indicter for any further evidence. The second letter was much more evaluable, but, of course, much worse, and, unfortunately, Mr. Attorney General confirmed this in his written reply, where he wrote that it was a proper thing that the investigating authority and the prosecutor's authority saw at that time that willfulness in the case where the men of a protective company are taking the CEO of a company out of his office at 7:00 a.m. could not be proved to be intentional. So if we look a little behind here and see what the law says about this, then it must have been recklessly done, if not intentionally, and you are right that in these cases negligence is not ordered to be punished by the law. So to think about this thing, that the person who went in there obviously with many of himself, is actually unplanned, if you like, by accident, in anticipation of the consequences of his actions, but he easily trusted them not to do so, I think that he is teaching Hungarian society to do the wrong thing, that if this can be done. If someone is not satisfied with the operation of the CEO of a municipal majority-owned company, then, even if it is not intended, then accidentally, we say, he will commit himself carelessly and lead him out of the door of his company. You are sending a message to the Hungarian society that this is okay. And the company that did this is still operating, providing, wavering quality, but providing. Last time, the Hungarian Competition Authority also condemned this company. So I think in these eyes it doesn't matter what form of negligence we take, and we're not in court to argue about it, but perhaps we should reconsider what the D.A.'s office says when it says that in such cases, there are so many things that you know are not true, legitimate, but it's not true. I think it's devastating public confidence in a terrible way, destroying public morality in a terrible way. [[14.10]] After that, let us not be surprised if everyone, instead of seeing some flaws in their moral and moral duty at times, makes all kinds of explanations to their own actions if the Supreme Prosecutor's Office or the prosecution, the sole prosecutor's office, sometimes sends this message to society. There's still one case like this, which is not last year, although last year's case didn't have much going on, and that's the Quaestor case. I know it's an ongoing case, and I also know there's a lot of things you can't answer in order to investigate. But, of course, we've left behind a certain period of time in the Quaestor case to raise questions. And I think that in a parliamentary report - this is a unique case, but it concerns so many people, it concerns such a large amount of money, 220 billion forints, 1 billion dollars that have disappeared on hand - the public wants more publicity, more information and more information on issues affecting public finances. Perhaps that can be explained in this case. Of course, you have to ask the questions. They have explained a long time ago in one of the television broadcasts, but I would also like to ask Mr. Attorney General here how he appreciates that he has missed more than 10 days of the first investigation, after the collapse of the Quaestor, more than 10 days have passed. How do you assess whether the condition that existed during this period until the first investigative act is carried out can be restored? Can any data that might have disappeared be recovered? How do you appreciate it, Mr. Attorney General, why are you delaying the first investigation? I'm asking you this because this period was enough for this company to switch hands once. This company borrowed 220 billion forints of money from people, I would add, along with a great deal from the Hungarian state, this company was sold by the owner of a former public worker Béla Orgován. And then, realizing that it wasn't really a partnership, even though it wasn't possible to do that either, but certainly not with a company this size, you took it back quickly. In the meantime, it was possible to file for bankruptcy, which was never launched. I ask Mr Prosecutor if he has a position in this case, as the guardian of legality, perhaps in order to bring an action of public interest, whether it could have caused any damage. What tactical move was it to announce a bankruptcy that wasn't launched? In addition, there are, of course, a number of issues that arise in this case. The Quaestor victims protested in front of your offices today, and as far as I know, you will receive this line of questions. But I'm gonna take a few of them out of this. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Are you informed and at what frequency about the Quaestor investigation? Are you satisfied with the results of the investigation? I'd like to ask you if you've tried to stop the money from being saved during this period, which has gone uneventably. Is it true what many people say in the press sometimes that you have foiled the bail-out? But what, then, is the prosecutor's position on the press that the wealth is constantly declining and that they can't tell where the valuation of Quaestor's assets and its existence is at present? Mr. Attorney General. Do you have any information on the number of charges filed in the Quaestor case? If you have information, I'd like to ask you how much public money there was... Not so long ago, my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth's complaint was dismissed in the absence of a crime, because there was no fraudulent treatment if the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Foreign Affairs turned around 72 billion forints, but we know that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Foreign Affairs took 3.8 billion forints from there. Is there a department that's stuck with a lot more than the Quaestor case? It's public money, it's responsible people. Mr Chief Prosecutor, my question is whether you have received a complaint from any government agency, office or ministry in order to help the Ministry to get to the bottom of this crime as soon as possible and to protect public funds. My last question would be whether an action of public interest was brought as guardian of legality, let us say, we know that it is not, so I would rather ask whether you wish to bring an action of public interest in order to comply with the Quaestor Act, which was voted by this Parliament by a 97 percent majority and then not carried out by the bodies responsible for it. Would you find out the reason for that with an action of public interest? Oh, I'm sorry, I could be forced out. Do you wish to know whether the Hungarian Trade House, the Foreign Trade and Foreign Affairs Institute, received 3.8 billion forints in securities or forints, and who ordered them to do so? I believe that as guardians of legality, you certainly have the right, the opportunity and the responsibility to do so. And one last question: will they bring an action of public interest in the fact that Quaestor Hrurira Kft. A member's resolution meeting, given that they're both in custody, where did it go down? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-21-85	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2015-10-21-86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Attorney General. They're replacements. I respectfully welcome you to the walls of this House. I am a little sad, as some of my fellow Members have said, because there are serious issues between the walls of this House, for which I think that you personally and the subject should be respected, especially on the part of my fellow Members who are pro-government. But I'm not surprised at that, because not so long ago, perhaps last week, but perhaps on the first day of this week, I don't even remember when we talked about the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's issues, the accounts of 2014, the draft of 2016, which, to say the least, gave us a more pathetic picture. And then, let's say, the leaders of that office, the authority, didn't respect Parliament to listen to the processes about them. You're here. Thank you for that. And thank you, too, for the fact that last year, I believe, in relation to the report of 12 December, Mr Attorney General, has fulfilled the promise that what he cannot speak about here, within the walls of this House, will be given in writing. He did, and I'm telling you, he did. Another thing is how pleased we are with the wordings and information that were then described in these papers. We have a sense of lack in this regard, and I would like to say this. It hasn't been a bad year for the D.A., and I'm already saying it in the sense and I think it is, technically, if I remember correctly, 1454 million forints more money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. I am pleased that there is a growing amount of money in the field of justice. I would be even more pleased if this were coupled with it, but at least it would make a change in my sense of feeling that it would definitely strengthen the way of impartial, impartial operation. I may have a problem with my feelings and problems, Mr. Attorney General, but I think if it were just me, it wouldn't be a problem. But a lot of people in this country feel this way, a lot of people say, think about the position that there is not bias in all aspects today, especially in matters of political involvement, so to speak. [[14.20]] Mr. Attorney General. I'm not gonna repeat my questions from last year, but I'd like to call back by two. Please respond to these, if you can, in your summary now, if you can't, and I would like to ask you with great respect to inform you in writing, but I would prefer you to give me an answer here. Then I must have asked you from my position about a case in Miskolc, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. Mayor Kriza Ákos had a report on 68 subjects. In connection with this complaint, you also indicated on the move that, in the absence of evidence in three cases, 64 cases had not been prosecuted, the investigation was virtually terminated and indicated in the spring of this year that the investigation was still ongoing in one case. I want you to be able to tell me a little bit more about this, because every year, all we hear is what it is, in fact, that there is a process that is confirmed, and not when it ends, let's say, for a case, the D.A.'s office. I think that if a case is still under investigation, then a case might have to end in months and not for many years. I add, of course, there is an example of this, but I am not denying my own words, but I am concerned with the issue of bias and non-beneficialism mentioned above, that the Hungarian Socialist Party's Miskolc organization has also reported this directly on the level of Miskolc, if I remember correctly, concerning 77 cases, and I would like to tell you, but I am sure you know that these cases have been cleaned to the bone in a year and a half, rather than in a year and a half, practically all investigations have been terminated. Interestingly, what was reported by the Socialist Party was settled within a very short period of time in 77 cases in one and a half years, which was done by Mayor Ákos Kriza, there is still one that, after many years, has not been terminated. For how long? When? And why the others so quickly? So, what I'm trying to say is that those revelations are no coincidence, not just for me and not just for these matters, but for many of them, which raises the question of bias, partiality, impartiality; at least raises it if it doesn't prove it. The other matter, about which Tamás Harangozó, our deputy group leader, spoke earlier, is the tragedy, in which I do not repeat his words, but I say that after two and a half years, when tangible things are available to the layman, everything that should happen does not happen. And I don't want to push the example that you have a certain knowledge of the Attorney General that, for example, in Miskolc, I believe, there were 80 or 82 concessions, 20 of which were taken by two Fidesz municipal representatives in an interesting way. Not one, not two, 20 were taken by two Fidesz councilmen! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. I'm not pushing you any further, I just want to retrace your steps in terms of impartiality, impartiality, partiality and much more. I would like to say that, of course, in addition to all of this, I respect and respect the prosecutors, the assistant prosecutors, the authors and everyone involved in this work, that they can deal roughly with the one million 100 thousand, one million 200 thousand cases far and far in the vast majority of cases that touch the system. Thank them for this. But what is at least as important is that if we thank them, we say thank you to those who pursue sin, but not to those who have become servants of the governing parties, Mr. Attorney General, not those who have become servants. Surely, in people's senses, such attitudes do not develop at random; I do not say so. If I said it, it wouldn't be a problem. At a time when many people express these thoughts, there is a much greater problem in my opinion. I told you about impartiality, about impartiality, about partiality, about double standards, about a lot of things in this regard, or about the issue of professional independence. I do not want to hurt you in any sense, I do not want to refer you back, I do not want to refer to your identity, I do not want to, but, after all, you were once a Fidesz candidate. In that sense, I think it's not too far from today's power. I don't want to refer back to many examples of Fidesz's election meetings, his appearances there, many other things, no. That's not what I want to do. But what I would certainly like to say is that I would be very happy if you could resolve the doubts that your person can carry, carry, and that your actions would serve to a large extent to strengthen the immunity of justice from political influence. In the winter of 2014, when the report was made here, I felt that I had failed to resolve these doubts. I can't say that these doubts have passed, but I really want them to go away in time, because they're not good for anyone. It is not good for politics, but it is especially bad for the country to have doubts about people in this sense. At a time when you are talking about the results of your accusations - over 95 percent now, if I remember correctly, 96.6% of last year, as you said about the pulpit - then I also remember the idea of my fellow Member, our lead speaker, Barándy, on the other hand, that I do, but what about matters of so-called political concern; if there is a matter of political concern. Depends on how you handle all this. I think there is, because, as in general politics, there are cases that obviously touch the D.A.'s office, but in terms of the format of the treatment, what about the results of the prosecution? Can you show 96.6 percent success there, or 20, 40, 60? But it's nowhere near 96.6 percent. I think this is a huge problem, because this is once again the basis for the issues of bias, impartiality, double standards, bias and many other issues. I would like to indicate that if, in terms of procedural action and adaptation to political events, there are anomalies, say, four days before an election, the prosecutor's office will play the role of the postman, or, three weeks before another election, it will start processes that... - which cannot be said to be random. There are no coincidences, at least not in the prosecution's work, as far as I'm concerned. It would be nice to change that. The ability to change lies in everyone, I think, with the possibility. It would be nice to change, because that would help the country a lot. It would be nice to change and think that nothing is forever, Mr. Attorney General. Nothing's forever! [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Neither are you!]] However, your position can be considered forever. After he yelled at Robert Répássy, I say he no longer has it. [[Dr. Répássy, not yours! Attila Mesterházy: It feels bad to be replaced!]] So what I would like to say, Mr. Attorney General, is that, although you have been appointed for nine years, after nine years, we have to face today's rules that it is virtually irreplaceable, because a blocking factor can be created by one third so that you cannot be replaced. I would add that this is a big problem, because not because you would still be the Attorney General, if you were to remain the Attorney General, but because if more and more people have doubts about whether or not the person of the Attorney General in the prosecutor's office is broadcasting impartiality back, this could, in a sense, base the political influence of the justice system. That's not good, that's a big problem. [[14.30]] So I think that, in addition to raising his professional work to the highest possible level, we should also strive to ensure that these feelings, I think, are not bad feelings, but, in this sense, bad feelings. To do so, however, we really need to operate a justice system that serves the interests of the people, the persecution of sin, and does not serve parties, not parties in power. Look, Mr. Attorney General, I will not go into the details, but I would like to say one more time, but I would like to say that what the country is experiencing with regard to corruption, which is not only said and formulated by opposition representatives within the walls of Parliament, and the relationship between it and law enforcement agencies or the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, at least in question. I don't make allegations. No. You know very well that Transparency International was just 2015. CHAPTER VIII In the snow, perhaps, his summary of what content it carries. My fellow Member Bárándy has also said a few thoughts about this. I do not believe only a series of measurement data, but when there are many sets of data when the movements in the corruption assessment index do not show a positive picture, when our position in the region is not improving in this respect, but is deteriorating, when Hungary is in the 21st, 21st, so we are in the lower third, Hungary is in the corrupt third, while I see and perceive that there is no sufficient efficiency to change this, then I think there are big problems. But I'll talk about this in a little bit more detail in my next comment. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2015-10-21-87	I now give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács.
u2015-10-21-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At a time when there was a dispute as to whether or not the administration of the prosecutor's office should be conducted with an independent prosecutor under the attorney general's authority, or in another manner assigned to the government, we hoped that the prosecutor's office could be kept away from politics with this possibility. We were hoping that he would be subjected to much less political attacks. Looks like we had to be wrong. This day is nothing more than a complete disregard for the account. It is certainly the action of the Socialist faction, who confused the genre of the report and the question. These two are separated between the genres of Parliament. The D.A.'s allowed to ask questions. These questions can be asked - but this is not the genre of the account! I would not like to advise the prosecutor, but I would certainly reply that there have been a lot of questions, it is in the minutes, put them on the table, whether orally or in writing, and we will respond. Otherwise, we will be listening here, who are well aware that the vast majority of these questions are completely unfounded, we can listen to questions and answers, and otherwise, I think that personally, it would certainly go beyond my ability to give credible answers to all questions of this nature from Miskolc to Al-Duna. Well, that's not why I asked you to speak, I just couldn't help but tell you that, and let's not try to fix the genres between us at least, because when you play the violin, you obviously don't play the piano. So it's something like that here, too. Dear House, The point is that the Attorney General held a report in which you could hear impressive numbers, but you felt that it was somehow like in the village circus, that despite the good genres and the great performances, they were screaming at the bear to come. That's what this is all about. Let's go with the bear. But I think that in the particular situation, we should be more concerned with what is the subject of this report. What's this? Public security, the safe opportunities for the time to come, are those which are clearly shown in this report. Of course, the prosecution's work is not flawless, nor is it ours, as I say with great courage. Consequently, it is clear that questions can be asked and will obviously be answered within the appropriate framework. For my part, I wanted to say something else separately, and that's why I asked for the floor. From the beginning, it came up as a kind of polemia, whether there is such a thing as political affairs. I think that if something like this exists - it surely exists - it is a completely different category of politicians involved in crime. This is how I would define it, and these matters really need to be dealt with, regardless of what kind of politician it is. I think that we should try not to pursue cases in this way, in one way or another, but specifically mark what they are that we think should be pursued, persecuted, not persecuted enough. This is a debate to be decided. Furthermore, what I would like to point out is also not indifferent. So let's talk about the Pecuñar side of this case: is it a lot or a little money that comes to the D.A.'s office? For their job, even as pro-government, I say it's certainly not much, it's not enough. That's exactly what I said in the courts. In a given situation, the requirement that what requires a better and stronger public security is always a sacrifice. We need to be able to make these sacrifices in order for the prosecution's work to be effective. Last but not least, let me be honest with you that the fundamental problem that has led the whole of today's polemic to such a political level is that every government, when it comes, promises to be accountable. The first action of accountability should have started sometime after 1990. Well, you're very late. Then he was so late that after that the chain reaction began, and we also promise, and even they promise a settlement, and everyone is dissatisfied, because the accountability is somewhere in those who should be provided with the data to be accounted for. Because the data is limited, there is very little data. It follows, therefore, that if we cannot find a reasonable solution in this regard, this chain reaction will continue. Somewhere within Hungarian public life, obviously with a cleaner Hungarian public life, you should be able to finish it there. Not the report. 'Cause we're gonna have to get to the bottom of the report someday. But once we get to saying yes, there's a point, there's enough, and from that point on, maybe we should focus on the country's things. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-21-89	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-10-21-90	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Béla Turi-Kovács's words led me to a little comment, as Béla Turi-Kovács is a well-respected veteran of this Parliament, who spent more than two decades in the walls of Parliament. So what you're saying is worth paying attention, and I think it's worth considering. I would ask so much of my fellow Member to understand that it is another, sitting in a pro-government group, to talk about these issues, and another, sitting in the benches of an opposition party, to talk about these issues. Perhaps the genre of Parliament, let us allow it, that is also a matter for the opposition to ask questions in such a debate, because it may have received or not a reply to previous questions, so it would probably also like to use this opportunity to talk about the issues it considers important, even if it is in the form of a question, because in the end we will be waiting for an answer. That's something to argue about. It is not a debate to tell the Attorney General about his presentation, and we will listen quietly, and in the end, all we can do is press a button to support it or not to support it. In this I ask Béla Turi-Kovács to understand that the opposition is also asking because he feels that he would also like to use this opportunity to speak on matters that are important to him; it may not be important for you, but we would like to see it a little more clearly on matters that are important to us. And by the way, my fellow Member is supposed to be absolutely right about the genre. [[14.40]] So allow me to get out of this genre a little bit, what you said, and I would also like to focus on a problem, which, of course, will be formulated in the form of a little question. In the election campaign there was a civil society organization, the Civil Alliance Forum or CÖKA Foundation, which started a poster campaign. This poster campaign happened to portray me as a common criminal, so I thought that in court I would try to settle for being presented to Hungarian society as a public criminal, because I am running for election as a candidate for another party. So I considered that my right to privacy was abused in this sense by this civil society foundation. A court decision has been taken at first instance - and I need to describe it a little longer so that Mr. Attorney General understands exactly the context of this matter. The court of first instance made a judgment that gave me the truth as plaintiff that this association, foundation, violated my rights as a person by using my image the way it did. The second-degree court ruling overrided this, and decided in its final judgment that the defendant had not violated my rights of this type, and that the story could almost end here, since one acknowledges that the court has decided otherwise at second instance. But there was a very interesting explanation for the second-degree court's decision. This is how it was said that the conduct of the defendant - namely the CÖF, CÖKA, more specifically, the CÖKA organization - that he expressed his political opinion in the form of a photo montage, is an activity which falls within the scope of the exercise of his fundamental rights which is not based on the protection of personal rights. So, in fact, he said that the final court decision was that he exercised the political opinion of CÖKA when he posted these so-called clowns or posters known as this one on the streets of Hungary. Now, based on this, I'm going to admit honestly, I've started thinking, and I've been at the Civil Alliance Foundation to see what the purpose of this foundation is, so why it was created, what it was organized for. When describing the target, the Foundation begins with the following sentence: . The purpose of the Foundation is to be an effective tool for shaping the country's economy by conveying citizens' positions to promote local economic policy and government activities for the common good, regardless of party policy. I am not a lawyer, but all I know is that there is a law on the right of association, which states that in order to register for public benefit, the organization's instrument of establishment must state that the organisation is not engaged in direct political activity, is independent of parties and does not provide financial support. If I don't have to post posters in a campaign because I don't do it as a party, there's a civil society organisation instead of me, and it doesn't include my campaign financing costs, then that certainly means a support for the party at the level of daily practice. Therefore, according to the Civil Law and the CÖF or CÖKA's own statutes, it should operate independently of party policy and not engage in direct political activity. Therefore, on 9 September 2015, I made a submission to the Metropolitan Attorney General about this anomaly, or I may have only wanted to draw his attention to an apparent contradiction, in order to examine, in the context of a legality procedure, whether this foundation or this Civil Alliance Forum works properly in the form of Hungarian laws and the statutes it describes. 'Cause if it wasn't C.E.F., it'd be, like, a politically self-active group, so P, uh, CS. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I would understand that you would be engaged in any political activity. But it's not P, uh, CS. It's COT. For this reason, the appropriate Hungarian laws apply to him and what he has written for himself. But I'm bringing this here for two reasons, on the Attorney General's desk. One is that the Attorney General is of a sort, and I may not be very specific, and you'll have to excuse me, Mr. Attorney General, but he has an order for you to respond to these kinds of submissions within 30 days. The Metropolitan Attorney General didn't respond within 30 days because the deadline was October 9th. We didn't even get to know if you had to submit any extra data or do anything supplemental, either, that you started any procedure. So it wouldn't be bad if a citizen filed a petition, then a reply to what they're doing with his petition. But it wouldn't be that important, by the way, if my personality rights were violated or not violated, because I could live with that, there was something worse in the campaign. But it is an important issue, and it has an impact on the electoral law, the whole electoral system and campaign funding, whether it is permissible in Hungary to carry out campaign funding hidden behind a civil society organisation by Fidesz. Is it permissible for all other parties to be at a disadvantage against Fides, because through a civil society organization, he can organize his smear campaign, and in the meantime he can pretend that I have nothing to do with this, because it's some kind of civil society organisation. Well, they love us, we didn't ask them to love us, but they love us, so they can make any kind of dirty campaign, poster, and use an amount of money for that. I mean, everyone who sits in this room on the political side knows that campaign costs money, even the billboard. In addition, they do not have to account for precisely and precisely how, from where, they obtained these funds, while all political parties and representatives must, of course, be legally accountable for this amount. So I wouldn't have brought this question here, because I would've e-mailed it to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office or the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office on this subject if it hadn't had a social, public policy impact. And I didn't do this lawsuit or this announcement either because I thought I couldn't live without it now, but simply because, in my opinion, it has, or has more effect than just what the image of a public figure is used for, because it has happened to the Prime Minister in the past. I would add that the Fidesz immediately reacted as it was supposed to, that he was offended by the use of the Prime Minister's portrait for certain purposes. Last time I checked, he was in a newspaper with a Hitler moustache. In that interesting way, everyone was outraged by the pro-government benches. When it happens to opposition representatives, it is not quite similar, but it is insulting, they are a little more lenient, but there is nothing wrong with that, because this is a good fit for political debate and expression. So in Hungarian, from a completely different aspect, I would expect a kind of answer or some kind of guidance from the Attorney General, which civil society organisations should be more closely monitored, which, where he is more careful about it, do they have one at all. And perhaps even for a moment, referring to the words of Béla Turi-Kovács, we do not have the problem that there are prosecutorial investigations involving politicians. It's natural. If a person violates law, a rule, then it's natural to have to act. This is the ultimate expectation of justice. Our questions were about to point out that we may not have made it clear that in many cases there appear to be more equals or even more equals among equals. So there are times when they're persecuted, sometimes they don't pursue so-called crime or the criminality of a politician.
u2015-10-21-91	In this case, too, a bit of an analogy is that there is a civil society organisation where the prosecution is rightfully acting, and there is a little bit more difficult to do, and we would like it to be what the Attorney General has talked about several times, namely that everyone is equal before the law, mutatis mutandis. So, we're simply waiting for equal treatment, please, we're not asking for anything extra. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-21-92	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Yes, it has been said here several times that what impressive numbers there are in this report, that is what Béla Turi-Kovács said. The problem is that behind these impressive numbers - we know since Churchill that he believes only the statistics he himself forged - we have to look at the content behind these impressive numbers. [[14.50]] I don't think the first thing about the prosecution's judgment is the impressive numbers. In my opinion, in Hungarian society and in Hungarian people, the most important reason for the prosecutor's office is whether they are really afraid of it, whether there is a public prosecutor's opinion. I mean, the prosecution is the body that oversees legality, which has to keep the law in mind in every case. Do people believe the current DA's office that if a criminal is a criminal, the prosecutor's office will strike without bias? The D.A.'s office is keeping an eye on charges and everything else so they can't commit crimes? And whether people believe that the D.A. doesn't care who it is, it could be anyone, it could be any high-ranking politician, anyone, if they find that there may be a crime here, then the D.A.'s office will act in this case - so the question is whether people believe it. And the other thing that is very important in the prosecution's judgment is, do people believe that the prosecution really is completely independent of politics and that the prosecution cannot be used for political purposes? I think these are the two most important things that judge the prosecution's work. I have a slight sense of absence here in relation to the report, namely that I have found very little data, and I have not found any information at all about how many proceedings the prosecution has initiated on its own initiative; when there is no complaint, when the prosecutor's office itself finds that any crime could have occurred here, when the prosecutor's office itself experiences that there may have been some unlawful conduct and has opened an investigation. There may be very few such cases, but you may be disproved about this. Why do I think there may be few such cases? I'll give you some examples. When we called the prosecution's attention - and I do not know if this is the case - to the fact that one of Fidesz's politicians, Zsolt Tiffán, makes a statement on Facebook in which he specifically talks about political mafia and political crime, refers to corruption in this post, and the Jobbik Hungary Movement draws attention to the fact that this has happened, we called on the prosecutor's office at a press conference to be so kind and to deal with this matter, we do not want to press charges, because we feel that the sentences that Zsolt Tiffán addressed to Viktor Orbán are absolutely suitable for the prosecution to at least ask Zsolt Tiffán what you were thinking about, what it might be that you wrote here. In such cases, I think we should start these cases on our own initiative. Once again, the question is how impartial the prosecution can be about politics and how independent they can be of who they are. These are the main criteria, in my opinion, which should be mentioned. If that were the case, then the Jobbik Movement for Hungary would not be able to meet with such outrageous things as I find outrageous by the prosecutor's office that we had to report Béla Biszku and György Mátsik. We shouldn't have reported him. The D.A.'s office should have dealt with these two. But what happened? What happened was that they didn't act against György Mátsik, because they refused to file a complaint with the blood prosecutor. It must be said that two days before the anniversary of the revolution, he asked for the death penalty for Péter Mansfeld, and now he is living his world, having a good time, not even having a case against him, the prosecution refuses to act. The other is the Bisku case. In the case of the Bisku case, Jobbik had to press charges, and on the basis of this complaint, the prosecution started investigating and prosecuting, but not on the basis of the complaint, but on the basis of the series fires which it could have done before, up to five to six to ten years ago, and it was not necessary to wait for the law on crimes against humanity, because at the moment the proceedings are not based on that. We feel that the prosecution should have acted on its own initiative here, too, and I believe that the prosecution should have dealt with these matters on its own initiative. Then allow me, Mr. Attorney General, to come to some specific matters. We are writing to each other, and the last letter I received from you was mailed on the 19th of February 2015, in which the Attorney General lists the cases that he claims to have been challenged. Well, we didn't just challenge so many cases, but there are a lot more cases here that the Attorney General may not even know about. From the FÖMI, the Institute of Geological and Remote Perceptions, to the abuse and violation of the Holy Crown, many cases are listed in the heart of Budapest. The Attorney General writes that in criminal cases brought about by the Member's complaints, the determining authorities gave a detailed explanation for the assessment of the evidence and the conclusions drawn from it. So they refused to press charges. How long does a case like this take? Let's take a look at the FEMI, for example. Just so you all know, at FÖMI, it's about renovating the headquarters on the 5th floor, concluding a contract for generating exports just below the threshold, so that no public procurement is required, and then, in the same area, for the same work, another two contracts are concluded with other two companies, only now not to generate for export, but to paint and replace floor coverings. In fact, we also report that the head of the general contractor is the same as the head of one of the other companies, so it's his two companies, which means there are certain things. By the way, this report - just so we know when it was - was made in 2012. From then on, I had to keep asking questions. I'll tell you this in chronological order: We filed the complaint on 14 March 2012 and then I wrote a letter because I didn't know what was going on with the case. My written question was answered by the Attorney General on 11 June 2013, in which he said that the case could be closed in the second half of 2013, i.e. deciding whether there will be anything. Then, in 2014, I rewritten a letter to the Attorney General about what would happen to this case, and then the Attorney General replied that something could happen in the second half of 2014. Then in 2014 I wrote another letter, and then in October the Attorney General said that the investigation, as he promised, would probably end and ask me to wait for the outcome. So I waited, and it was indeed decided in the second half of 2014. The complaint that we made as a criminal offence in public procurement and concession procedures for fiscal fraud causing significant financial disadvantages, fraudulent treatment causing significant financial disadvantages and a restrictive agreement on competition has come to the conclusion that since the investigation data do not indicate that a criminal offence has been committed and that there is no expected result from the continuation of the procedure, the proceeding will be terminated. Once again, the Attorney General said in this letter that the evidence was evaluated and what conclusion was drawn from it. [[15.00]] I would like to quote you from this explanation what happened. It has happened that it has been established that what we claim to be true is true that Haus-Bau Kft. and B.D. Sign Kft. Managing Director of the same person, József Balogh. Then, when a judicial construction expert was requested, it was also found that the amount of business fees was significantly higher than the current market price at the time of implementation. This expert also concluded that some parts of the content were requested from entrepreneurs, and that the priority parts were implemented under separate mandates, probably in order to avoid exceeding the investment limit. That's been established, too. Then it was also established that, in all likelihood, these costs were significantly, at least 40 percent higher than those which would have been acceptable, compared to competition prices. You write all this down, I don't make it up. And they also find that the two kft.s do have overlaps, and they're contracted for the same job. And in return, you say - by the way, I don't know why - that you can't press charges, that nothing has happened here, that nothing has happened here, that is even in the justification, even because the Director-General of the FÖMI was aware that he didn't need a public procurement procedure. So the public procurement procedure was played out, but this is not punishable because he was aware that there was no need for a public procurement procedure. Therefore, given that, on the basis of the data obtained during the examination of the subjects referred to in the report, there is no doubt that the offence of fraudulent treatment could be committed, the operative part could therefore be... But it wasn't just an unfaithful treatment, it was another three things. So I don't understand. So when we press charges in the first place, and even if your justification proves that our report was justified, we still... And you know what the biggest problem is? The fact that there was a provision under the second Orbán government that the case stopped from now on, because I cannot complain, I am not involved. If I were personally involved, I could file a complaint, so the case stopped, and it's over. And I have to bring up one more very important issue, and this is again a serious issue because the prosecution has a huge responsibility in that social morality is at all affected by its decisions, that social perception is influenced by its decisions. This is a violation of the national symbol, in which we have filed several charges, because at the expense of the Holy Crown, several crimes have been committed that have indeed violated the Holy Crown. For the first such thing, Playersroom was a company, who carried out a representation in which a representation similar to a baseball cap appeared, and you rejected this complaint with this justification:, however, the legal act is clearly stated, you say, that the act must be directly related to the protected symbol, which, for example, in the case of the coat of arms or the flag, can be committed on any crest or flag as defined in the Fundamental Law, but given that the constitutional state continuity of Hungary and the unity of the nation are represented solely by the Holy Crown guarded by the National Assembly, the offence committed by the desecration of the Holy Crown can only be established if the object of the act is directly attacking the sole Holy Crown. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We brought this to the Judicial Committee, where György Rubovszky assured us that this was not the intention of the legislator. The intention of the legislator was, indeed, to punish the demeaning or any representation of the Holy Crown, since it is not necessary to protect the Holy Crown, the Holy Crown, from this place, but only by the decision of the Parliament, and it is under constant protection and guard. No one here will - I hope it will not happen - desecrate the Holy Crown. And Mr Rubovszky said there, in the Committee on Justice, that they would actually support this, so that the prosecutor's office could interpret it that way. I'd like to ask Mr. Attorney General how you interpret it. So can this be achieved in the Holy Crown itself in Parliament, or can it be done anyway? And why is that a problem? It is a problem because this rejection came on February 13, 2014, and it is encouraged to open an exhibition in Blaha Lujza Square in April 2014, where the Holy Crown is pictured in a picture of Miklós Horthy, Hitler, Ferenc Szálasi and a swastika instead of the cross. And when we press charges in this case, you'll be investigating for about a year, and then you'll turn down this whole complaint by not being able to find out who this picture belonged to. Who posted this picture in a public exhibition because they can't find the person, so you'll forget it from here on out. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-21-93	I will, of course, continue, and I will ask Mr President for some more time to finish what I have to say. Thank you.
u2015-10-21-94	Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Even Béla Turi-Kovács, a Member of my opinion, asked me to take the floor in response to his speech and so that I could answer with a few thoughts what he said. I too - and I said this a year ago at the hearing of the report - I would very much like it to be possible for our faction to be able to analyse the statistical data of the report presented by the prosecutor's office and to draw conclusions based on them, and, in good case, to conclude that, after a brief comment, it will ensure the adoption of the report by the chief prosecutor. It's just that we're not here.
u2015-10-21-95	We have a preliminary question that prevents the analysis of statistical data. This is that we consider that some of the D.A.'s bodies are not doing their job impartially for certain types of cases. If we say so, then I think that it is right to have examples to justify why we think this, why we are saying this, and, as a matter of fact, we are also asking questions to the Attorney General. I would like to remind you that they say - and there are many truths in it - that there are many parts of it. We are now presenting all these parts to the public of Parliament and to the Attorney General, and that is why - and I would like to say a word about this - because it is either the politician to whom the particular type of case belongs or the one whose constituency is affected by the matter. I think it's understandable how these cases come to the prosecution's report. So I'm asking you to appreciate this, not as a day of complaint, because it's not meant to be. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-96	I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bellozó. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Attorney General. Colleagues! You may not be surprised that I am not one of the Members who came here today to give a treatise similar to a production conference about the numbers of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, but rather I am here today to express my concern that the prosecution you run often plays a political role. In some cases, it can be felt that they deliberately want to discourage those indicters who press charges in some case involving a fidesz politician or a fidesz political circle. And these are generally well-known cases, so by mentioning these examples, I will not have to talk about them for a long time, because everyone will know them, because they will always receive a large media publicity. For example, the report by András Horváth, who reported abuses of the NAV, and yet the prosecution brought proceedings against him. Then, for example, the case of Ákos Hadházy, who was satisfied with the fact that, as a fidesz, the prosecution could no longer assist the Fidesz in trying to rob the country and published the recording that exposed the whole of the traffikmoty, yet Ákos Hadházy was prosecuted by the prosecution, or, for example, the case of the David Ibolyas, when a recording was made public in a case, which was again about an amazing case, but not about the substance of the recording, was investigated by the prosecution, but instead initiated proceedings on how this recording came to the David Ibolyas and why it was made public. But as in this case, when the proceedings went through, there was an acquittal, it should finally be acknowledged that this lousy threat should not be continued, since these procedures cannot even be legally justified. That is why I claim that they have purely political motivation. But we can also talk about the other side of the coin, when you cover up cases, with obvious abuses, you're looking for legal loopholes as to why you shouldn't prosecute. I came to you with a case like this in the last year's report, which you could not answer at the time, so you sent your reply in writing and informed me in writing that, I quote, the prosecutor cannot press charges if, based on the assessment of the evidence, you are convinced that the suspect did not commit a crime, and that if he committed a crime or that the suspect committed it, there is no evidence. [[15.10]] On the other hand, Mr Attorney General, what your colleague wrote in the prosecutor's report, I quote, is that the prosecutor's office says that they have chosen the lawyer's office in the case in the course of a material and fraudulent tendering procedure. The prosecutor said in the resolution that: "It was possible to establish that the persons lobbying for the withdrawal of the application had successfully applied in the second round. In this case, however, it was found that there was actual abuse, and that the evaluation of some of the tenders was arbitrary. However, on the basis of the evidence fully assessed by the prosecution, it cannot be established that these abuses were committed in the interest of official persons, indirectly or as a result of their direct influence, and that therefore there is no legal possibility to establish a criminal offence of a breach of office and any other similar criminal offence of a corruption nature. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What's this about? The D.A. also writes that there has been abuse, that the records have been falsified, that on this basis huge values - a thousand hectares here - have been used illegally, and then he writes that I cannot in fact conclude that there has been an abuse in this case, so I will not initiate proceedings. This is totally unacceptable to me, and it is clearly a political case, because we know very well that those who were involved in the case of Roland Mengyi and András Tállai, who would not have won the first round of these contestants. Also, in the other land cases, the prosecutor's office claims in a number of cases that I have also filed a complaint that they are not prosecuting because there could not have been an abuse of office because there was no official in the case, because the body that made the decision is not a public authority, so it is not an official person who manages it. But in the case of Bükk National Park, in this case, Article 4 of the articles of association states that it is a body which carries out public authority under the law, because the public task of the Bükk National Park Directorate is a public activity defined by law. I quote from the articles of incorporation. So the leader of this is an official. I find it quite pathetic that, in this case, the prosecution is trying to hold onto the fact that this was a civil procedure, and in this case, it is not an official person. If the organization is a public authority, then it is an official person, but otherwise, I'll say it again, it's just a search for a legal loophole. Once the D.A.'s office tells you that they've gotten to these lands illegally, you shouldn't be looking for how you don't have to do the procedure at the end. And then I also came to you on a written question on another matter, which was a matter of Siófok, two, to be exact, when a recording shows that the mayor of Siófok was talking to Fidesz's candidate at the time that I was about to... quote, okay? According to the recording, the mayor says: "The Prime Minister has signed the Somi, soon there will be news when he has signed it and the launch of the Somi project has been published in the Gazette. So it starts, the best offer was made by the Public Machine, not yet announced. So - I'd like to skip a part - the Public Machine itself is getting in on us, as it has already been in every election, by the way. The candidate asks who he has discussed this with, the Public Machine, Miklós Németh, the Head of the Public Machine. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this case, the hardest part is that this is a October recording of which the mayor admits that this recording, this conversation actually took place, he talks about it in October, and based on the recording, it also turns out that they want to launch an embarrassing campaign with the support offered by the Public Machine. At the end of October, this campaign will take place, flyers will be spread out, and then the Somi contest will be announced in December, which will be discussed in October, that the Prime Minister has approved, and this will be published, and the Public Machine will win it in March. Don't you have anything to do, nothing to do with this prosecution? The other case is also based on a recording of the hospital investment in Siófok, where the two gentlemen also talk about the fact that the hospital investment in Siófok was stopped because the contractor selected by Erik Bánki, Épkar, was interested in this because they found out that the building could slide statically. Árpád Balázs explains that the whole thing, that it can slip, was invented by the Épkar, and I think there are some hard-core interests, and the congressman answers: "I think it seems to me that the Épkar still wants to unbutton some money from here. Only the penalty missed 30 million forints. After asking you what procedure was initiated in this case - after you were sent to investigate these matters by the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office of János Lázár - you informed me that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office had sent this matter to the Central Investigator's Attorney General in order to assess the content of the case and to take any necessary measures. The Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office has initiated an investigation into the crime of publishing false voice or image recordings in connection with the news in question, but no suspicions of corruption or any other crime linked to the content of the recorded conversation have been identified on the basis of the available data. After the mayor admitted to the conversation, by the way. After a little looking into the facts, you could see, for example, at the hospital investment in Siófok - because I took the trouble, looked at the calls and how they changed - which is not included in this conversation, that before they figured out that the building was slipping, and so they stopped it so that it could pay the rent, they changed the contract, so that it could pay the rent, because the original contract didn't. An amendment was made that if the investment had to be stopped, it would be possible to pay a penalty; this was accepted and then the investment was stopped and the debt was paid for nothing. And then you describe that the ongoing investigation at the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office does not affect the conditions under which the hospital investment in Siófok is carried out, which only examines the conditions under which the recording is created and used. Mr. Attorney General. These cases continue to support me, as I said last year, that your prosecution is politically motivated: in some cases, you are prosecuting those who press charges instead of investigating matters in substance, in other cases simply covering them up. And now that I'm going to finish this with a case that completely put the point on the i: this week, citizens of Siófok called me by subpoenaing them as defendants for questioning, fingerprinting and photographing them, because the article about the Fidesz mayor of Siófok was distributed on their own Facebook site without comment during the campaign. What's this about? We scare people that if an article is shared on their Facebook page, we kidnap them and listen to them as defendants, while in a case where we know that in an insolence of fidesz leaders, they take away the land awarded by the locals in a fair trial, they create a new procedure where they forge the records, and they give these lands to the friends of the fidesz leaders, we don't initiate proceedings, and we say there's no corruption in this case? !
u2015-10-21-97	Mr. Attorney General. These are the cases that the whole country sees, and these are the cases that we are all concerned about here, that the prosecution does operate in a politically influenced manner. We would expect you to try to eliminate our doubts in meaningful answers, because what you have written here is not a meaningful answer, it is a pompous lecture that I cannot accept as a representative. Thank you for your attention. [[15.20]]
u2015-10-21-98	Mr György Szilágyi may now continue his speech. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. So I'd like to continue. I was saying that there was an exhibition at the Corvin Store, in the gallery called the Cultural Level, where an image of the image of the Holy Crown was displayed in violation of the law, which is why, in our opinion, there was a violation of the law. We weren't the only ones who thought that, by the way, because there was another reporter, a civilian reporter, and the cases were merged. This is what happened: I filed the complaint on 4 April 2014, and this decision came from the Attorney General on 30 July 2015, after nearly a year and a half. After a year and a half, the D.A. managed to get to the point of asking four people, interrogating four people, that is, the competent authority to whom this job was issued. What happened was that one of the executives of MÜSZI was heard, and he said he didn't know who owned this picture, how it got there. They kept going, asked the art director of MÜSZI, said he didn't know who this picture belonged to, he doesn't know. Then they asked the person who organized or initiated the whole exhibition, said he didn't even remember this picture, he didn't even know how it got there. And then, finally, there was one gentleman who also exhibited works at this exhibition, and he was found as an exhibitor who said, yes, he remembers the picture, but he doesn't know who this picture belongs to. Then, after a year and a half, the D.A. decided that since the unsub's identity could not be established in the investigation, the investigation would be suspended. So my question is, do you find this acceptable? Do you find this appropriate, or do you intend to deal with it later? And what made me bring this here is because, as I said, I brought this question to the Justice Committee, and it is almost possible to say that there was consensus, all the Members present said that the legislative intention was indeed not to defend the Holy Crown, but to protect the image of the Holy Crown. But the Attorney General sees what I have read to you, which is quoted in Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. I got it from the D.A.'s office, Dr. Attila Kenyeres sk. From the District Attorney General, his justification is that this is how the law should be interpreted. The intention of the legislator was to protect the image of the Holy Crown. The question raised in the Judicial Committee is whether the law should be amended or clarified, which is why I am now asking the Attorney General. So will you be willing to interpret this law as a legislative intention that the abuse or representation of the image in any negative color is a criminal act, or should we amend the law? Because then Parliament is willing to amend the law if the current legislation is inadequate and unclear. That is why I would ask which one, and I would ask you to answer that, because then Parliament - at least there at the meeting of the Judicial Committee - would be willing to amend this law. We do not want to wait for more of these to happen, which is why we want to change that. And then there's one more thing I'd like to bring up. I don't know about that either... but I'm guessing the Attorney General is also aware of it, because he's got a lot of press coverage that the National Development Agency is no longer here. You know, this is the National Development Agency, which operated illegally, because in January 2012, Parliament passed a law whereby offshore companies would not be given public money, and after six months we looked at it, and it turned out that in the last six months, until August 2012, 30 billion forints of EU money were given to offshore companies. This turned into quite a scandal, because first Zoltán Petykó was replaced, and then, as it is, the entire NFU was abolished, and now the Prime Minister's Office is under management of these funds. The question is whether there was a crime in these cases or not, because it is 30 billion forints and 30 billion forints for public money. I think it would be nice to get these money back from these offshore companies. Have they done these things or not? So what I'm saying is that this case could have been investigated from its own initiative. I'm not saying there was a crime, but it would be comforting if the D.A. had investigated it and the D.A.'s office said there was no crime, or the D.A.'s office would say, yes, there is a crime, and that's what we've initiated and that's what we've done. So I have questions. My questions to the Attorney General would thus end with whether, on the one hand, it is necessary to amend the law on the Holy Crown and, on the other hand, whether it wishes to examine or review these matters in relation to the cases that have been listed so far. As I said, the case of the FÖMI, as I mentioned, is about the case of the NFÜ, whether it wishes to be investigated, and as I have said, Zsolt Tiffán's words could possibly be examined whether he knows of any crime, if he has not already filed a complaint, and if he is aware of any crime, he should have done so, as he is bound by his oath of the Members of Parliament. So are you listening to Zsolt Tiffán, who are the mysterious people who are handing out the money around him by mafia methods, according to Zsolt Tiffán?
u2015-10-21-99	Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-10-21-100	I now give the floor to Congressman László Teleki for a two-minute comment. Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, At your meeting of the Justice Committee, you said that the National Roma Municipality has been reported several times, and because you are not competent, you are not very aware of the cases, but you will be able to provide information in the near future. I would like to ask that these matters should be resolved as soon as possible, because the public is very shaken up by what happened in the National Roma Municipality, and because it is also a Member of Parliament - we know that Flórian Farkas, former President of the National Roma Municipality, is also a Member of Parliament - so a lot of people are asking the question on the street, anywhere, in any institution, about what is going on with the affairs that have appeared in Roma affairs. The process that has started with regard to Roma integration has been largely blocked, because social tension is even more strained by such things. Therefore, I think it would be very important to show and see that the reports that have started and which have been confirmed where your cases are, because it is not only the Roma in Hungary that should be reassured in this matter, but the population of Hungary should be reassured. If there were crimes that had to be launched - and it looks like there was something that had to start - then it would be good for the Hungarian society to see where they stopped. It is very important that the Roma in Hungary should also be focused on a direction that proves that it is not the problem of all Roma NGOs or local government bodies that was in the National Roma Municipality, but on the contrary: there is a body that is a public body, and this public body is likely to have abused the resources it received from the Hungarian Parliament or from the European Union.
u2015-10-21-101	Therefore, I would ask that Roma organisations, Roma people and the majority society be reassured in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-102	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to mix what I have to say in my speech as a keynote speaker, because my fellow Member, István Józsa, who is abroad, asked me to ask some questions about the answers he had written to him. I am also very happy to do this, because these are issues that concern not only those specific cases, but also the prosecution's activities in 2014-15. One is that, first of all, on this subject, I would like to thank the Attorney General for having answered the questions that we asked a year ago, but the wormhole in the joy - and I do not think I am the first to say this here today - that although he has provided information on the subject, it is not the answer to our questions. This is also the problem with the reply to Congressman Józsa. I am also very pleased to present this because I also asked these questions in my speech as a speaker. [[15.30]] In connection with the public prosecutor's leaks, how they got and get to this day certain internal prosecutor's information and documents are in the possession of certain specific press organs, and here, most of all, the Hungarian Nation can be mentioned if we look into the past. In response, the Attorney General writes that: "I inform you about the public prosecutor's leaks that the prosecutor's office is conducting an internal investigation in all cases where there is a possibility that a prosecutor's employee may disclose data belonging to a public prosecutor's property in breach of law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's all I'm asking, Mr. Attorney General, I understand. How many of these procedures have been initiated, and what are the results? Because this, by the way, reassures us that there are such procedures, I think it is a far from satisfactory answer. We'd like to know if there's a result of the fact that he's responsible inside the prosecutor's organization for how these confidential information could have gotten there. I suggest that we start the search at the Central Detective Attorney General's Office, because in most cases, in my view, these documents have been leaked very consciously from there, and it would be nice to find those responsible. The second point is the application of excessive coercive measures, which occurred with me and with Congressman Józsa in connection with the BKV case. Here you wrote in response that during this period, not the D.A.'s office, but the police continued these proceedings, and the investigation of suspects was also a matter for the police. Mr. Attorney General, we knew that, thank you very much. What we don't know is why the D.A. didn't act in their jurisdictional oversight or investigative powers. What we don't know is if you think it's appropriate that this happened, that you think it's okay for three or four VHF cars to rush into a mother's apartment with two children and take her out of handcuffs at night or at night. That was our question. Our question was not whether the police or you have taken this measure, but whether you consider it a reverse and whether you consider it a case in which you should have taken action. The answer to the third question is also; about Gyula Molnár, he informs my fellow Member when Gyula Molnár was acquitted in the first instance and then informs me when Gyula Molnár was acquitted in second degree and that he did so in the absence of evidence. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, That wasn't the question. The question was why the pre-election, I think, was to deliver four days earlier, just then deliver the suspect subpoena to a potential mayor. I know other cases. You've already written this to Congressman Bellozó. In a slightly different tone, it says here that I must reject the statements made by the Member on the timing of individual cases and his view that any form of political considerations would have been involved in the opening or continuation of these proceedings. Here you refer to Dezső's case, the case of Béla Kovács and the case of Gábor Simon in this answer. Do you need a hand? Shall I give you the number of this document? This is Nf.6752/2014-32-IV. the answer to a question under number 1. I'll ask you, why, Mr. Attorney General? I understand that you have to refuse. But why do you have to refuse? We understood the strange coincidence that Gyula Molnár, who was a better representative, had been able to act in a procedural manner there just before the elections to the European Parliament, who, by the way, was a candidate for membership of the European Parliament. Our gullible fellow Member Dezső also managed to do this in the immediately preceding time of the election. Not to mention Gábor Simon, who, I believe, started this scandal in February, mid-February, knowing that a month or two later there will be parliamentary elections. This information has been in your possession long before, at least that's what you said to the press. On the other hand, I would like to know on what basis you are rejecting these assumptions, because I understand that you are doing so, but, Mr Attorney General, on what basis you are doing it, because we have argued in favour of the reason why we consider these procedural acts politically timely and guided. In return, the reason why this period, 2014-15, is also affected is because I have to say that the prosecution's attitude has not changed at all. That is what I said in my speech as a speaker, and that is what I can say in relation to these issues. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-21-103	It would be good, and we would be happy to see that if the Attorney General has been so kind and I must admit, it is also rare these days that he has written an answer at all, then do so by writing us a meaningful answer, because by informing us of the facts that we have, we do, thank you very much, but we do not need it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-21-104	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Attorney General, I'm gonna say this most seriously once again, with great respect to those people, no matter if it's a prosecutor, a deputy attorney, an author, any man in employment who pursues crime with honor, the greatest respect. But I must also add that those who serve political power purposes do not deserve respect. I hope that Mr. Attorney General thinks, as do I, and as many in this country, that we should not serve political power goals. Sin must be persecuted, it must be done with decency. I don't argue with Béla Turi-Kovács' thoughts, because that's what I see. It seems to me that, naturally, everyone who commits a crime acts unfairly must act. But, as has been said many times today, the application of equal standards is a necessary condition. It's not good, Mr. Attorney General, it's not good to prosecute bias against any of the Attorney General's chief officials. It is not good if, with partiality, it is not good to use double standards, it is not good to accuse anyone with impartiality. It's not good for anyone, it's not good for the country, it's not good for the people. I do not want to go into a multitude of examples that have been mentioned here today in the walls of Parliament, whether by my fellow Member, Mr Barándy or by my fellow Member, Mr Gábor Harangozó. But to get to the point of abducting our fellow citizens and their daily lives in the context of a story that has been mentioned, while I think there is something to be done on other surfaces, it seems a little repulsive, dissonant to me, not a little, but a lot. [[15.40]] To what my fellow Member Turi-Kovács has said, I would just like to say that, although he has been prejudicated in a good way, he has told me what the Attorney General will have to do in his reply or he will not have to deal with the issue of individual cases raised. I would like to say that Parliament is not a theatre. It's not about coming in, listening to the D.A.'s lecture, and then clapping. No! I think that Parliament is precisely about knowing what you are putting before the walls of this House, and in addition to that, or together with all that, we can ask, even give an opinion. We may even make mistakes, if necessary. It may even be that it does not stand in every tiny mosaic of our opinion, because we do not see everything. But don't take away or want to take away the possibility that, in this sense, we can either make statements or ask you questions. Once again, it was an honor for me and for all of us that you responded in accordance with your promise at the time. We were here on December 12th, and you were here sometime in February, March, I don't remember exactly, but you responded early in the spring. I'm honored. I'm honored, but I don't think that's enough. This is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for the functioning of what I have just said, so that impartiality prevails and much more. What I would like to say is that I think that everyone should have equality before the law, whether they are political or not, whether they are Fidesz or even opposition, whether they are politicians or private people living their daily lives. But that feeling, and it's not just me, Mr. Attorney General, that in many cases it doesn't work that way. In many cases bias is enforced, which is supported by the outcome. I have given you a specific example, whether in the case of Miskolc or in other matters. They say that many people, and they feel themselves, if any, that once information is leaked, dredged, and sometimes they refer to the fact that there is no information about an ongoing case. When is it once and when is it the other time? I've read it so far, and I'm trying not to read it selectively, that it's when it's in the best interest of the governor. The other time is when, let's say, on the opposition's side, it doesn't matter which side we try to put anything into perspective. So once, when the power wants - because this power, which I believe is today and is not a service, the power wants to be leaked - then interestingly comes out of the information, even within the prosecution's framework. Another time, when we ask you about cases that have been going on for two, three, four years, you say you're not going to be informed of an ongoing case. Don't you feel the contradiction between the two? Mr. Attorney General! I read in the report about the effectiveness of criminal statistics. If I remember correctly, it shows a 12.8 percent improvement. I don't read "Btk." In connection with its transformation and other changes, the drawing of the statistical background was also transformed, in Hungarian: the apple is compared with the pears, not the apple with the apple or the pears with the pears. I don't read it, I don't see it drawing attention to that difference, or simply giving me information about what it compares to. You know, I'm gonna give you an example of this kind that doesn't necessarily fall within the D.A.'s jurisdiction. For example, in terms of employment, this is what we see and we hear it all the time. We see that they are trying to write on every media site how good the situation and employment in Hungary are, while almost the whole country knows that this is a set-up. After all, a significant proportion of people are made up of the number of public workers in this employment expansion, not through jobs in the economy. They also know that a significant proportion of those who have gone from Hungary as an economic refugee to other countries of Europe to earn their own bread do not work more than a year ago, they are included in these statistics, increasing the number of people employed. That's not a result. It's exactly the opposite, opposite result, negative result. So I would like to point out to you, Mr Attorney General, that it would be good if, say, for criminal statistics, this type of torso could also be weeded out. That's where I stopped, and I'm going to continue to think about it in terms of corruption. I said that Transparency International's statements in August 2015 virtually confirm the criticisms or opinions of the Hungarian Socialist Party in previous years. I told you that what can be found here in connection with the role of the Attorney General himself is that you can personally influence the development of investigations. I also said that any case, if you think you can bring me to you, or you can have me signed, which means you can take it out of the D.A.'s hands and transfer it to another prosecutor. This may be practical in certain situations, if any, Mr. Attorney General, but in some ways it gives us another opportunity. I do not wish to say that you do. I don't want it because I'm not convinced. But if there's only the danger or the risk of something like this, are you sure this is how it's supposed to work? As far as corruption is concerned, I stopped thinking that there are a number of statements to support Hungary's downfall in the corruption assessment index. Hungary has gone down, we are doing worse in the region, and I have just finished my sentence by saying that we are the 21st of the 28 Member States in the EU, i.e. Hungary is performing in the lower third of the corruption. It's not good, it's not good to say. I think we need to change that. There's something I think the DA, the Attorney General, shouldn't go around except the areas that seem to be sensitive. We have heard countless reports here, within the walls of Parliament, whether it is MSZP or better, or from any fellow Member, after which they have found that the processes are going on for a long time. I don't think it's a good thing, I don't think it's a good thing. Meanwhile, at the same time, we read, see and experience many times, I can say that government decisions are becoming increasingly opaque in time. The processes are becoming increasingly confusing, as if they were consciously trying to create a situation where they could not follow these things. As far as I know, 144 countries have also been examined in this regard, and from these 144 countries we were in 119th place; in 119th place, how and how the transparency of government decisions looks. I think if I just quote this, then I have to say that, if you think about it, obviously, the Attorney General's office is also involved in this matter in a professional way, so that the processes in this regard can change in the future. It is said that many and perhaps it is right that the government abuses its power. Specific examples can be given. Several people told me about the trades, the history of the tobacco farmer or the problems of the land or the savings unions, a lot of other things. And in these specific cases, when reports have been made, we do not see progress. This was the case of the Norwegian Fund in spring 2014. I'm not going into the details, I'm sure you'll remember. They also know what your attitude was in this regard. And in the fall, there was this ominous ban scandal. I won't go along with it. You know what your attitude was in this regard. Well, most of all, the way I've seen it, the pull-ups, the procrastinations, the push-ups, we don't deal with the cases. But there were concrete cases raised by the Hungarian Socialist Party, in respect of which it has already been mentioned, as regards election frauds, from 2 billion forints what came back, whether they even examined how they came to the conclusion that 2 percent of these funds had been repaid. The issue of the hospital in Siófok has already been discussed here today, but about the financial uses of hundreds of millions within the Roma municipality, much more about land affairs. I see that they seem to be making much slower progress in this than they usually are in cases that serve, say, the interests of current political power. [[15.50]] Mr. Attorney General! If that is so, if that is so, can it be said with a calm spirit that there is an impartial operation on the part of the Attorney General's Office? My problem is that you can't miss that feeling in me, that you're impartial, that the Attorney General's office works impartially, impartially. That's my problem, and it's not just my problem, it's a lot of us. I think what I have to do is ask you with great respect to resolve these kinds of doubts, not just in us, but in many Hungarian people, which in direct form give rise to experiences that I have put forward in the foregoing. If it was just us, it wouldn't be a problem. But not only do we say that not only I, not the Hungarian Socialist Party, but a lot of civilians and a lot of international organisations, besides civilians, come to similar positions. This needs to be changed. Once again, overall, I can't and don't want to say anything else; it's always made up of parts. If we are faced with a multitude of problems in terms of parts, then our attitude to the whole cannot be only positive. But I also have to say, as I said in my first sentence, and here in the last: respect and thanks to all the prosecutors, subconscious, authors and everyone else who do their job with honor. Respect and thanks to them. Sin must be persecuted, without bias and without political affiliation.
u2015-10-21-105	I ask you, Mr. Attorney General, both you and your deputies and all your leaders to do this, to strengthen this, to strengthen the formation of this consciousness in us, so that, in a later period, such a report can be accepted, which has been placed on the table. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-106	I am currently giving the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi as his last speaker. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I also asked for the floor to clarify that what the Jobbik Movement for Hungary said and raised, these were raised, believe me, with absolute improvement intention. After all, if we look at all the speeches and my fellow Members have raised the problems, it is very clear that one of the greatest results of the prosecution could be the preventive effect. I am convinced, by the way, that if at the time, say, in 2011, when the Jobbik Movement for Hungary reported abuses at the Roma Municipality in Budapest, where there was much less abuse than we are talking about now, if the case had actually been investigated, and if there really was a crime that should have been retaliated, we would not be able to talk today about abuses at the National Roma Municipality, because it would have a preventive effect. If the perpetrators had been punished in the first violation of the law in connection with the Holy Crown, we would not have to talk about new cases today, because that would have a preventive effect, that is my belief. The other, in relation to policylessness: I do not wish to make accusations, I would just like to say that it is not honest enough, and it must also be seen. Therefore, it should be taken into account, where appropriate, the steps taken by the prosecutor's office and the appearance that it does or does not do so at political pressure or for certain political purposes. And one more thing: I want to protect lawyers working in the Jobbik Hungary Movement. I do not think that the lawyers working at Jobbik are incompetent, because what has now come down from this debate - otherwise, not only with us, but also with the MSZP - is that, in vain we are filing complaints, these complaints are usually unfounded because the prosecution rejects them. I think that we have very excellent lawyers working for us, and these excellent lawyers are putting together complaints that are legally valid, so I think that somewhere else is the problem, not the ground. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-21-107	The last thing I want to say is that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary - I can say this as the party preparing to govern in 2018 - is that when we are on the government, we should have a strong, independent but ruthless prosecutorship in Hungary. A prosecutor's office that clearly sets itself the goal - which Jobbik has set for itself - that in this country we can restore people's faith in legal certainty and justice, which means that people should also consider the prosecution to be honest, that if I am honest, I have nothing to fear, but if I commit any crime, it doesn't matter who I am, it doesn't matter what my religion is, it doesn't matter what my political attitude is, it doesn't matter what my skin color is, they'll still get me and they'll punish me. We want to live in a country like this, we want to live in a country where the order and the law are absolutely respected, without any belongings. That's what I want for the prosecution until 2018, as long as Jobbik doesn't govern this country. Thank you so much for listening. [[There's no candidate.]] I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate.
u2015-10-21-108	I do not see a candidate, so the joint general debate is closed, and I give the floor to Mr Péter Polt, Attorney General, to respond to what has been said in the debate. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I listened to their comments with great interest. Indeed, this was a discussion with many lessons. I only had one sense of absence: that it had little to say about the 2014 report, not only in the sense that there were concrete issues here that could not naturally be reported in the report, but also because a very significant part of these matters is not dated to 2014 and should therefore not be the subject of this debate according to the relevant rules. In addition, I understand the speakers that if, for example, an immediate question is addressed to the Attorney General, the time frame available is very limited to expressing their views. Perhaps the institution of the written question offers a better framework for this. I believe that these frameworks should be used by all of us, the questioner and the responder. I believe that we have always answered these questions among the legislative options and given the answers that we have been able to give. As I recall, perhaps Congressman Barándy complained that we were writing facts. I think that this is our duty and our duty to write the facts, not assumptions, or possible thoughtfulness, which, however, is not supported by evidence; the prosecutor's office is just such an organisation that it has to work as required by the legislation. You have asked a lot of questions in your speeches, I have written them all up, but after a while it has become clear to me that the 30-minute time frame available is not enough to answer all the questions here, even if, of course, I cannot answer all the questions from my head, because the Attorney General does not handle these specific matters on his desk. Of course, I have so many handholds that you are not bringing up the same cases for the first time, not for the second time, and not for the third time, of course, there is always a new one and they are leaving one, but they are well known among us, and therefore I have been able to navigate; of course, I do not know them at such a depth, but there would not be enough time for the answer, even at the level of visibility that I could present here. [[16.00]] You have rightly said that the prosecution must work without discrimination - I fully agree with and apply this in our practice. I will apply this now: I will not choose between your questions and thus discriminate against some, but everyone will receive written answers to all the questions you have asked on the basis of the official record. I think it's the only way they're really going to get an adequate answer, and everyone really can get an answer. We will, of course, also answer those questions, which, by the way, do not affect the agenda of this meeting, cannot be affected, because they are not related to the 2014 report. So much for the specific issues. I believe that this is the best solution for everyone, and it is also our duty, to me personally, my constitutional obligation, and which I try to fully respect. Some of the things that did not arise in connection with a specific case or a specific case, but that are of principle and can be answered, of course, are those that are linked to the 2014 report. Many speeches concerned the question of trust, the question of public confidence. One thing has been said is that citizens can conclude from individual cases how reliable this public body is, not from general activity. I'm sure there's truth in that, and I'm sure those who come in direct contact with the day-to-day work of the prosecutor's organization can make an objective picture of it. It has also been said that abroad there is a positive picture of the prosecution, the prosecution's work. That's what I'm saying. Perhaps it has even been said that it is not so positive here at home. I do not agree, however, because it is possible that some political parties, based on their own political convictions, do not consider the prosecution to be trustworthy, but I think that this is not a professional decision. Let me just say one thing, since we are talking about the 2014 report, and I am trying to keep to it that, according to the Media public opinion researcher, in 2014, the confidence index of legal institutions and armed police bodies looked like this: the Constitutional Court led the ranking by 56 points, the second by 53 points, and then by the police, the court and the army. So much for that, ladies and gentlemen. You may not like this, but we didn't make this up. As regards further questions, I will continue to maintain what Congressman Bárándy has disputed about the clear position of the prosecution on so-called political matters. The D.A.'s office doesn't have any political issues. The D.A.'s office only has cases. Of course, I think that we agree in substance, of course, there are matters of politicians, and there are other matters considered political in public opinion. By the way, we can choose between cases, since Congressman Bárándy has linked the indictment to this, that he would be curious to know how much the indictment in political matters is. I think that there are a lot of points to be chosen between cases and to bring out 100% and zero percent indictment, which just shows that it is not good to make such a distinction. Of course, you can make this distinction in your own political life, but we cannot and will not do so in our legal professional work. Besides, speaking of prosecution, this was once a positive one, and it was once a negative one. It's a statistical indicator, it doesn't really matter. It is possible to work very well with 100% indictment, and it is possible to work very poorly, if it is the same indictment rate, and the same in the true fifty percent indictment rate. This is partly a question of selecting statistical aspects, and partly I think that it is a question of the structure of the legal system, so where, for example, the questions of proof are decided. But this is indeed a professional debate that is actually a professional issue, not a matter of political judgment. I would add that this only makes sense if, at the same base, we always compare data and numbers in time. So absolute numbers are irrelevant, that's my belief. One or two other things that have come up that need not be answered in writing. One of them is the question of how the D.A. can bear the apparently increased negotiating burden. For the time being, as stated in the report and in the oral amendment, this is in addition to great efforts, but it succeeds, even in such a way that we are also involved in court proceedings where otherwise there would be no obligation to participate. Obviously, as long as this pace can be achieved, it also depends on the speed of the judgment and the additional resources the court receives to speed this up, obviously the prosecutor's office must follow that pace and receive these resources. There have been, in many speeches, statements that such opinions and such opinions have been expressed in such decisions. I think that this can be discussed on a case-by-case basis, but it can not be discussed on a case-by-case basis, because in general it is not possible to say something that I could say in a specific case, yes, this decision was made because the expert opinion and the administrative authority in this area clearly expressed such a view, I would say, for example in the case of the environmental waste dump in Cicola. So you could say something like that, but then we'd really be sitting here until tomorrow night, and I should be constantly memorizing and getting new data. [[16.10]] It has occurred to me that the prosecutor's office is legally acting on a case-by-case basis, but that does not necessarily cover the truth, as Mr Cook said. It's a matter of principle, that's why I'm talking about it. The D.A.'s office can't act otherwise than legitimately. The extent to which this corresponds to the truth may, of course, raise certain questions. Obviously, the aim is to bring legality and justice together, but we are living in a rule of law, where legal certainty is a fundamental value. The D.A.'s office has no choice but to act according to the law and to make the decision required by the law. Of course, he strives to achieve justice, I think, in a rather good proportion, but the two cannot be opposed, and in particular cannot be opposed by saying that we should put the legality aside, because that is justice and that is contrary to it. I think that this would create quite a difficult situation for the rule of law. There have been many - and I am obliged to repeat this - cases that have already been discussed within these walls. My problem with this is that the answers were also made, and these answers are quite clear and factual, if you will. Again, I say to the Member that I regard this as a value and not a mistake. There's nothing I can do about it if the question goes back to the fact that there's a statement in there that doesn't actually correspond to reality. The questioner should be aware of this, because we have answered the same question many times. To give you an example, let me not speak in general terms, this Quaestor case, the Quaestor investigation, that ten days have passed since the report, without any procedural action being taken to investigate. On the day of the report, a search was carried out. But I've told you this many times, so I don't understand it, or maybe I understand it, but I just don't want to accept the probable reason why it reappears in this form again and again. But this was just an example, because this was also raised on a number of other issues. And I don't understand that, although if I was a politician, I might understand that, but I'm not a politician, and I've been serving long enough at the DA's office and in front of other public authorities to say that this approach is completely foreign to me, not just to the point of view, but to accept any political influence. If reports come from one side and it is rejected, then this side grievances this and considers the decision politically influenced, but if rejected from the other side, then, of course, that is the greatest order and vice versa is possible. I'm just saying this for the Miskolc cases, where they've been numerically filed almost the same number of charges on one side and on the other side, and the investigating authority has eliminated them. Of course, it keeps coming up, but I don't care that this investigating authority is not the D.A.'s office for 90 percent of the cases, but of course we're the supervisors, so I don't care about that. I would like to say that I am convinced that the prosecution will abide by the laws in all respects, and that it will also respect the legal deadlines. I say this to Congressman Mesterházy. In his specific case, which he said in Parliament, the prosecutor's reply was born and is being served. I'm just not saying what it is, I didn't know it anyway, but I was informed, because it's obvious that he has to get it alone first, personally, and then he decides whether it's any of his business or none of his business. [[György Szilágyi: For criminals!]] I would like to say that I do not want a prosecutor's office, which has also been said by Member Szilágyi, which people are afraid of. This is not the rule of law I want to live in. The D.A.'s office should be respected, respected and trusted, but not feared. The criminals... but that's not what you said, Congressman. He said there's a record when they're afraid of the D.A.'s office. The criminal, of course, should be afraid, but society should trust him and, if possible, love the prosecution. But that's just a personal comment. As far as the Holy Crown is concerned, because it is once again a matter of principle, yes, it is not only the Holy Crown in Parliament that is protected. So it's a clear practice now, but there was a principled uncertainty. The specific case to which you referred is suspended, not because the position on this issue would be different, but because the person of the perpetrator is not clear. This was the case. We haven't been able to locate enough data, but the reason you're suspended is that if any new facts come to the attention of the investigating authority that will lead the case forward, they will continue. But the question of principle is quite clear that the Holy Crown is also protected in general. I can tell Mr Gábor Bellozó that it is not right for someone to be loud and angry. This is neither an argument nor a basis for our opinion being adopted. Besides, what you've said to us is completely unacceptable, impossible, and I reject it on behalf of the entire D.A.'s office. I would add that many people have said that they are honest prosecutors; and obviously the others who work unfairly. Name them. There has been an example of this, though not in this debate, but in another debate. I think that's where the road to Mr. Bellozó's departure is headed. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That last sentence was intense!]]
u2015-10-21-109	I think the D.A.'s office is working legally, professionally and effectively. The excuses you have raised are not of a professional nature. If that's the only excuse the D.A.'s office can have, then all prosecutors and prosecutors can sleep tonight. Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2003 XCII on the system of taxation. General debate on the amendment of laws and certain tax laws until closure. The government referral is T/6636. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[16.20]]
u2015-10-21-110	First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, who speaks about the pulpit. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 13 October, the Government submitted to Parliament the 2003 XCII on the Rules of Taxation. a bill amending law and certain tax laws. The bill proposes, in particular, amendments to the procedural rules governing the tax administration's and taxpayers' relationships and the substantive rules, but also initiates a minor change in certain laws. The system of taxation regulates the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax administration. Although there has been a positive shift in this field for both the population and businesses over the last decade, further action is needed. This is also justified by improving the country's competitiveness. A key aspect is the implementation of interventions that are not restrictive, but stimulating, in terms of economic development and our daily lives. Greater efficiency must be achieved by supporting both public authorities and taxpayers with the greatest possible scope for voluntary enforcement. The newly introduced rating system of taxpayers, based solely on the examination of objective conditions, is introduced to about 525,000 registered companies and about 3,000 VAT-registered taxpayers. Taxpayers who essentially follow the law and fulfil their tax obligations are considered to be a good taxpayer. Based on the available data, about 25 percent of taxpayers, or 140,000 taxpayers, will be included. A good, also known as reliable taxpayer is a taxpayer who has been operating continuously for at least three years, in the reference year and in the preceding five years the State tax authority has not imposed a tax difference of more than 3 per cent of its tax performance, has not initiated enforcement proceedings against him, has not been or has not been subject to bankruptcy, liquidation, compulsory cancellation or enhanced tax supervision, has not been suspended and has not been subject to tax clearance, has not been charged twice in the reference year and the two preceding years by the State tax authority. It is also necessary that on the first day of the quarter it does not have a net tax debt of more than HUF 500 000. These are the conditions for classification as good, reliable taxpayers. These taxpayers receive benefits according to the government's bill, which makes good taxpayer quality attractive and supports them in fulfilling their obligations. In this context, it is important to highlight the maximum time limit for monitoring in 180 days and the abbreviation of the deadline for the allocation of the general turnover tax from 75 days to 45 days from 2017 and from 2018 to 30 days. In addition, the result of the reliable taxpayer rating is the granting of an automatic payment discount up to HUF 500 000 in debt and a reduction in the ceiling of the default penalty and the tax penalty. On the other hand, taxpayers whose operations are demonstrably in breach of tax legislation, which accumulate large amounts of tax deficits and tax debts can be classified as bad taxpayers, also known as risky taxpayers. According to preliminary estimates, their number is 10 to 20,000. They are subject to stricter regulation by the bill, forcing offenders to comply with the legislation. A taxpayer not subject to winding-up, winding-up, compulsory cancellation procedures, registered in a company register, who is included in the list of taxpayers with a high tax or tax debt, or is included in the list of taxpayers with undeclared employees, or within a year the State tax and customs authorities have applied a re-closure measure against him. A large tax deficit or tax debt is HUF 10 million for private individuals and HUF 100 million for other taxpayers. As a consequence of the risky taxpayer rating, these taxpayers will always be subject to a VAT referral deadline of 75 days, a higher rate of late payment and a default penalty, and the deadline for verification will be extended by 60 days. The current account integration of the National Tax and Customs Office, which has so far been managed separately by the tax and customs departments, will result in a more manageable, transparent system of current accounts for taxpayers. Dear Parliament, As is known, NAV has been examining, under the conditions laid down in the tax registration procedure since 2012, whether a company can receive a tax number, i.e. a member or manager with a holding of more than 50 per cent has not accumulated a large amount of tax debt or has not been or is not currently a member of a company that has or has a large amount of tax debt. In the first three quarters of 2015, 19 132 new companies were subject to a tax registration procedure, and as a result, 731 taxpayers could not start their activities this year. As regards the scope of the changes in the person of the managers, officials and members of the operating companies, 7936 cases of obstacles arose which led to the conduct of the procedure by the State tax authority. Based on the experience of recent years, this regulation would be tightened next year by reducing the tax debt threshold in order to avoid further abuse. From 15 to 5 million and from 30 million to 10 million forints for taxpayers with the highest tax performance, the amount of tax debt would be reduced. The investigation would also include company managers in the future, as companies are currently trying to circumvent the rule by indicating this position. In addition, the tax authority would consider as a new condition whether the person concerned is not banned from the designated management, official position or occupation. [[16.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation and submission of personal income tax returns is one of the biggest administrative burdens for individual taxpayers. In order to make this obligation a real administrative problem only for the increasingly limited number of taxpayers, the bill before you proposes the introduction of two new forms of reporting. If the individual has only income from employment and does not account for any costs, does not apply any benefits and does not provide for his tax, except for 1 percent offerings, he may, for the first time in 2016, make a declaration of his income in 2015 to his employer and thus fulfil his tax obligation. The tax authority will only contact the individual making the declaration if there is a difference between the tax advance deducted during the year and the actual obligation based on the information available to it. From 2017 onwards, the tax authority will make and send a declaration offer from the data at its disposal without a specific request to individuals who have a customer gate or electronic access for this purpose. The tender shall become a declaration by the individual if it is accepted in the same form or in a manner which can be justified by amendments. Dear House, In the present case, the magnitude of the administrative burden reduction is illustrated by the fact that, thanks to the new possibilities, more than 1.5 million individuals, as from 2017 up to 3.8 million individuals, do not have to submit tax returns, and instead, the tax authority prepares the document. The other amendments to the personal income tax law aim, on the one hand, at the legislative wording for the implementation of the task required by the Government's decision and, on the other hand, at the transfer of the necessary changes due to the amendment of other legislation, at ensuring consistency between the laws. The amendments to the General Traffic Tax Act aim to reduce the administrative burden on businesses. To this end, it is proposed that companies providing international passenger transport may fulfil their obligation to provide invoices next year with other accounting documents if the consumer does not request an invoice. In addition, in order to avoid unnecessary self-checks, the amendment extends by 30 days the final date on which the payment of VAT is due after the periodic clearing transactions. In order to simplify the application of the law, the amendment removes the practical barrier to the formation of group VAT by state and municipal owned companies. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Honourable Members, I would like to inform my fellow Members that, after long negotiations, the government has defended home-made pálinka brewing in Brussels, so that the EU procedure against Hungary will be completed shortly. To this end, the details of private cooking are slightly altered, but this activity can still be carried out at minimal cost and administration. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] from January to the customs authorities for 700 forints per litre for the purpose of pálinka cooking. A minimum of 5, up to 86 spirit tax tickets, made available by the customs authorities on paper or electronic basis at the choice of the claimant, may be obtained. The distillation equipment used for the production of distillate shall continue to be notified to the municipal tax authority and the same tax authority shall also verify compliance with the legal provisions. The amendments to the Company Tax and dividend tax Act and the Special Tax and Contributions Act which improves the balance of public finances provide clarification of a linguistic and legal nature, and no conceptual change to these laws will be made. As regards local taxes, the proposal makes a deduction of 7.5 percent of the tolls and tolls paid abroad and domestically, from local business tax, in order to improve the competitive position of carriers. The two amendments to the proposal relating to the local business tax also serve to reduce the administrative burden for taxpayers. On the one hand, taxpayers who are not liable for tax under the local tax regulation do not have to submit a tax return from 2016. On the other hand, as of 2017, entrepreneurs will be able to submit their tax year reporting obligation to the State tax authority using the general form filling programme. The latter change does not affect the tax administration powers of the municipal tax authority and the person entitled to revenue, i.e. the local government. It does not affect the right of the local authorities to tax. According to the proposal, in order to implement the Jedlik Ányos plan, there is no tax to be paid in the car tax, company tax and registration tax on environmentally friendly cars, i.e. in addition to the currently exempt, purely electric cars, the external charging, the increased range of hybrid electric cars and the zero emission vehicles. Furthermore, the acquisition of these cars will be exempt from the payment of the vehicle acquisition levy. These tax advantages constitute de minimis advantages. Currently, only a few hundred environmentally sound cars are in circulation in Hungary, but the incentives of the Jedlik Ányos plan are expected to increase the total number of electric cars to around 54 thousand units by 2020, which is expected to increase sharply in the period between 2020 and 2030. The proposal includes regulation for the so-called assembly taxation of semi-trailers and semi-trailers. From next year onwards, the tax base of the tractor will include the maximum total mass of the tow which it can tow, and consequently no tax is to be paid on the tow. This change benefits all carriers for which the number of semi-trailers exceeds the number of semi-trailers. The amendment of the tax law will make it tax-free to obtain buses, semi-trailers and trucks by economic operators. The latter constitutes a de minimis benefit. In addition, no charge shall be paid for the automatic payment of instalments initiated by an entity that is considered to be reliable. In addition, the resolution trustee shall be added to the list of persons entitled to the personal exemption. Thanks to the amendment, the inheritance and return transfer fee will be refundable in the event of renovation of the historic buildings, and the enforcement before the penalty for the debt arising from student loans will become easier and simpler. By amending the rules on the tax on public health products, the tax position of insured persons will be improved by allowing them to recover the amount of the accident tax on the return from their insurance company earlier than the current date. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Please discuss the bill, discuss it, and accept it at the end. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-21-111	Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-21-112	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps the positive side of this bill is also shown by the relatively few of us here in Parliament. It is generally common for those who look at it professionally to speak in these debates on the part of the government. But since this bill brings almost exclusively positive changes to next year's tax changes, it is evident that opposition representatives are also more professionally represented, and I think that this is basically right, because if we go through what Mr Tallai said, it also follows that, as he went through the list, there are almost only proposals in the amendments to next year that will bring positive changes either for businesses or for people and families. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 30 new taxes!]] But I have set this example because it has not always been so, unfortunately, and my fellow Members who have been in this House for the last 10 to 12 years have been prepared for various tax laws. Unfortunately, referring to the socialist period here, usually the submission of a next year's tax law was accompanied by annoyance and fear, usually because it resulted in an increase in burdens for entrepreneurs and people. [[16.40]] I think you will also have the opportunity to give your views on tax laws to others, including my Socialist fellow Member. But it is a fact and a fact that we have seen a number of discussions here in Parliament on tax laws, where we have unfortunately had to argue about how the tax burden on businesses has increased. Or if, by the way, there was a period - once again referring to my socialist fellow Members - when there was a tax reduction in the debate of a tax law, for example in the case of VAT, we knew precisely that it was basically for a short time, because these tax cuts were a scam at the time, because after the elections, taxes were higher than those of the previous tax, so they clearly served only to obtain votes. But maybe so much about the past. We are fortunate that today the performance of the Hungarian economy is much higher, and because of this, we must not argue with the tax laws about who and how their payments are increasing, but about who and how their burdens are reduced and how their administrative obligations are reduced, as has been said here, in many cases. The proposal to amend certain tax-related laws before us was made by the Government on 13 October with a clear aim to keep the tax burden on families, workers and businesses raising children at a low level and to encourage the whitening of the economy, in line with the direction set out in previous years. Since 2010, I have not listed it now, because it is likely that time would be short, and the government has taken a number of steps - and the majority of Parliament has supported it - so that the creation of a work-based economy can be achieved here in Hungary. One of these may be the employment protection action plan launched in the summer of 2012, which I mention only because the measures taken at the time live on, and the benefits that help work in Hungary continue in 2016 within the framework of the tax package that has just been submitted. I believe that the measures taken in recent years have stood the test of time in this respect. We can clearly say that the government's idea of not punishing, but of supporting work and, if necessary, raising consumption taxes in the previous years, in order to balance the budget. As a result, the substantive transformation of the system has been completed, and this is why the tax package that we have just submitted does not have any significant, radical measures, and we can even find government steps specifically to reduce administration. One of the most important elements and the biggest novelty of the proposal was the introduction into the law of the desire of the business community, which basically puts the concept of a positive entrepreneurial list, i.e. a reliable and risky taxpayer, into the tax system. The reliable taxpayer is more positive than the general rules, and the latter, i.e. the risky one, receives more stringent treatment. In the case of positive taxpayers, the fine of default and the upper limit of the tax penalty are 50 per cent lower than the standard rate, and the requests for VAT allocation will be accelerated from January onwards. I think that this is an old demand for honest Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and an important message from the government in terms of its appreciation and support for honest entrepreneurs. With this, these entrepreneurs can gain prestige for themselves and their clients. However, it will be much easier to negotiate between two reliable taxpayers, to make a better business offer, to negotiate more favourable terms for themselves than companies that are risky, i.e. to the category that is essentially passed several times over certain legal frameworks. But the bill contains additional, I think, important measures, as Mr Secretary of State has said here, specifically the strategic nature of the transport sector is reinforced by the proposal submitted to deduct from the business tax the toll paid abroad and 7.5 percent of the domestic toll. I would also like to point out here that this is an old request for the profession, to which the current improved economic situation gives us the opportunity to introduce it. By the way, transport companies do not receive tax relief, but receive tax relief. With this measure, we hope that domestic businesses will have a competitive advantage. In any event, the government's objective is also to ensure that, in addition to electric vehicles, the proposal submitted also makes the acquisition of other environmentally sound vehicles free of charge. Basically, this is happening within the framework of the Áyos Jedlik plan. The exemption will be used as a de minimis aid and will include the purchase of certain commercial vehicles. It is also important, perhaps, for the payment obligation, that the bonus-free payment option will increase from the previous HUF 150,000 to HUF 200,000, which will also cover the payment of ekho in the future. It is very important and has been said - one of the most important parts of the proposal - that millions of Hungarian compatriots will be affected in the future by the fact that NAV is essentially taking over the preparation of tax returns of all taxpayers who meet certain conditions, i.e. they will declare to their employer that they do not have any other income, that they do not benefit from tax relief or that they only provide for 1 plus 1 percent. We believe that this could, by the way, result in significant administrative cuts for millions of Hungarian households and Hungarian citizens next year. It also affects the corporate world that companies operating in liquidation will not be required to conduct a tax authority investigation in the future. Moreover, the reason for this, with which we can agree, is that most of these companies have an orderly financial background, the mandatory control only remains with risky taxpayers. It serves the work of tax administrations, more effective cooperation, to convert payment obligations in the separate records of the State tax authority and customs authorities into a common account register next year. In the excise duty, as has been said, perhaps we can put an end to the decision in Commission v Hungary in Pálinka I, on the basis of which the benefit remains significantly, but is linked to certain payments and administration. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, I would recommend that the tax package just submitted to Parliament be supported by thinking that next year's tax package is both good for entrepreneurs and good for entrepreneurs, because it creates a predictable, stable tax environment with significantly decreasing tax burdens, and it is good for families, as it maintains the earlier benefits, and it also brings a significant administrative burden reduction from next year onwards. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-21-113	Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly think that I would like and wish for Hungary a lot of tax disputes where the Hungarian population and the Hungarian entrepreneur can expect falling burdens and reduced administrative burdens in such a predictable, stable tax environment. On the part of the Fidesz faction, we support the government's presentation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-21-114	I now give the floor to Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[16.50]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, It's autumn, and it's normal for this House to negotiate tax laws. Yet this one has a particular charm and special significance. The special charm of the fact that the Parliament is discussing tax laws is that, in fact, this task should have been completed by the beginning of summer, according to the government's intentions. After all, as my fellow Members remember this well, the government stated as a huge success that the budget for next year, together with the tax laws attached to it, would not be adopted by Parliament in the usual timetable, autumn or early winter, but would be adopted by Parliament before the summer break. We had already indicated that these laws would probably not be long-lived, and that the government would continue its favourite practice of spreading something in haste and rushing to accept it by the majority of the Parliament's Fidesz and KDNP, and then, when it realizes what it has done, it begins to modify it little by little. Or if it is not simply a correction of a mistake, but a lack of foresight, when in a few weeks or a few months he remembers what he really wanted, what he wanted to achieve with this bill, then he will start again. In other words, it is perfectly normal that we are discussing tax laws now, but in fact, the government should finally decide whether it wants to have this discussed with Parliament every 3-4 months or whether it is sufficient to do so once a year. This is not only of formal significance, my fellow Members, but also of a very important substance, namely: the economic policy of a government can be calculated if it is made up of stable laws, and it is not laws, whether it be the fiscal law - by the way, but also the amendment of this year's budget is on the agenda in Parliament. So if these economic policy laws are not like this every 3-4 months, there have been years when they are amended every month, but the government knows for a long time what it wants, it will put in a package the changes paragraphs and passages containing its intentions, and the Parliament and the business community will discuss this, the citizens know what they can expect. Hungary has a government - I will talk about this later - when we cannot talk about it. Its operation is not predictable, and it is particularly hasty in economic policy, and unfortunately there are also negative consequences. While, by the way, I have every right to criticise the lack of foresight of the government, I must point out that in the bill tabled, there are, and I cannot say this as an opposition representative, eligible elements. Our criticism is partly with part of the pass, and partly with the part that is left out. We'll talk about this later. Because there are eligible elements in it. We consider it an eligible element that taxpayers who pay their taxes properly do not commit a crime against the rules and laws in time and in no way fall into the category of a so-called high-ranking taxpayer, and for them it will be easier to tax and enjoy more benefits in the future than otherwise. This also allows for more efficient tax collection, as if the tax administration has to pay particular attention not to all taxpayers, but first and foremost to the resident taxpayers, then we hope that this can improve the efficiency of tax collection. There are, therefore, elements that are otherwise eligible in this bill, and an environmentally friendly approach is also an eligible element, although the government has not been brave enough in this area - and I will explain this in more detail - in this respect. It could have gone much further in the field of environmentally friendly measures than it did in the bill. But what I would like to continue with is that these positive measures, these favourable provisions in this bill, are, however, nothing more than a kind of wrinkle for the tax authority. Because if we look at the image of the tax authority that has developed in recent years within and outside the borders, I have to say that this image is depressing. In the picture of the tax authority, unfortunately, we have to say that the general public opinion is that the tax authority makes a distinction between a company and a company - which, according to official accusations, is one of the hotbeds of corruption - and that the tax authority is also considered to distinguish between a company and a company from a political order. It is not in one case that the domestic press has written about how the government has exercised pressure on entrepreneurs and business owners through the tax administration's secture in certain cases, in order to achieve its goals more effectively. So when a terrible picture of the tax authority developed at home and abroad, it is not enough to lift a wrinkle. In fact, it is not included in the bill, but it was Mr Tállai, State Secretary, who held the expo on behalf of the author, that we are not at all satisfied with the solution that, after the change of regime, the tax authority, in an otherwise unique and unprecedented manner, is directly controlled by a Member of Parliament, a politician in the rank of State Secretary, at a time when some of the suspicions about the tax authority, some of the accusations, as I have just mentioned, sometimes using the tax administration as a kind of club for the political purposes of the government. So, like I said, it's kind of a wrinkle. At the same time, this overall picture, produced after the wrinkle lift, is overall not unfavorable. As I have just said, it is a useful and good element of the bill that it is finally trying to take meaningful steps in the field of environmental protection, but it does not go far enough when it starts on this road. We also consider the idea, to simplify it, that electric cars will be cheaper in the future if someone buys them. In this respect, however, the government could have gone much further, since environmental protection could be one of the most important activities for the future, and the measures set out in the bill are rather modest. Because, given the proposed changes in the light of the fact that these environmentally friendly products are otherwise subject to the highest VAT of 27 percent in Europe, the government could have been braver in this area, with a significantly higher tax discount on the spread of environmentally friendly technologies and products. Here, we could even suggest to the government that, using the most favourable, lowest VAT rate, they spread these modern technologies, not only in public transport and in transport in general, as emissions are very high, but also in other areas. [[17.00]] We know the government's position that solar panels, for example, give it a chill, because, as L. Simon László said here in Parliament, the problem in Hungary is that the country is not windy enough now, but that the sun does not shine at night, which is an undoubtedly accurate scientific statement, let's just add that there is enough sunshine in the country for Hungarian grain, for Hungarian apples, Hungarian peppers, for Hungarian pears, there is enough sunshine in the country, but according to the government's view, there is not enough sunshine in the country to generate electricity, let's say, there is not enough sunshine in the country. By the way, we think it's dark not only at night, but also in one of the heads of government, because there seems to be darkness here and there. The proposal is therefore still moving in the right direction. We believe that it is not moving in this direction enough, that we would encourage the government to take a much braver step. Minister of State Tállai mentioned our freedom fight with regard to brandy. I'd be more modest here if I were the government, I'd just admit I didn't make it. It is true that, according to the government, Mr. Secretary of State, if I have listened well to his expo, the change is very small, indeed, just one word. So far, you've been exempt from tax, and now you're not exempt from tax. This small change is that from now on, it is necessary to pay for what the government originally intended not to pay, and up to a certain limit, the spirits cooked at home would have been exempt. This freedom fight has been badly defeated by the government. By the way, it was envelopable. The result of this freedom struggle is that after the home brewed brandy, it is necessary to pay, much more than before, a number of changes in what would be healthy, but the distribution of quality brandy in the country has fallen dramatically, not incoherently with the amount of home-cooked brandy. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, You might think, and the lead speaker at Fidesz made references to this, that everything here is fine, because it's just right that there are so little changes, and there's no need to be afraid of tax changes. I have to say that we socialists wanted to see much more tax changes once the government changed its mind after a few months and touched the tax laws already adopted. There are many criticisms of the government's tax and economic policies at home and abroad. I'd like to remind you of some of them. First: before the summer, Hungary's largest economic partner, Germany's companies, made it clear that they were dissatisfied with unpredictable and corruption in the context of Hungarian economic policy. The other warning signal should have been that, contrary to the government's expectations, credit rating agencies did not remove the country from the Bovli category. The third warning signal, a renowned investment specialist the other day, pointed out that the EU's money loss actually covers the serious weaknesses of the Hungarian economy and that, as a result, a major problem could be expected in the country by 2020. It is true that the government of Viktor Orbán is interested in what will happen in 2020, and they will certainly no longer govern. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] But at the same time, if this had not been enough so far, we would have to pay attention to the resolution of the Hungarian European Business Council, which calls for a tangible country strategy, and one that is based on a real social consensus. But we know that, instead of social consensus and dialogue, the government has introduced the so-called NER, in which it consults itself and its most important believers, and believes that it has been able to hold every debate and consultation on its part. Contrary to the lack of consultation called NER, a real social consensus would therefore be needed. And, as I have already said, predictability would be very much needed, since the success of companies is much more affected - I quote the resolution - by the regulatory environment in which they operate than by their own efforts. This is about Hungary, of course. For the business world - the document states - the greatest risk is the government's unpredictable measures. That's something you should watch out for. As the material states, while this is not entirely unknown in any other country, if not to this extent, it is a real Hungaricum that, contrary to previous promises, special taxes have not been introduced or even replaced. These are therefore an economic part of the findings, but there are also serious social findings. One third of the population lives in poverty, and it is a shocking fact, says the document, that 43 percent of those living in poverty and social exclusion are children. To add, it is shocking that in Hungary, the government is warned about social sensitivity by businessmen, since they already like their beaks and their eyes, to say the least. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-10-21-115	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. There are positive elements in the proposed bill, some of which are also eligible, but there are serious shortcomings in what it does not touch, and the government should admit that the fight for freedom that it has fought has lost. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-21-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We're going to continue the lead speakerial round. Mr János Harghitai, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Listening to my fellow Member Burány, the socialist lead speaker, I think that I should answer a preliminary question, at least in my view, before I begin to say it, because he was trying to make us believe here and through the ether to the public that they had confirmed what they had done during the debate on tax laws. I note to the public that we have not yet experienced the adoption of tax laws for a next year six months before the normal deadlines. So the spring session was concluded by establishing tax laws and budgets for the country by 2016. We consider this to be absolutely positive, and I am convinced that the Hungarian public, the Hungarian entrepreneurial world, considers this to be the same. I do not know why we should be ashamed, therefore, to establish these laws in time, and not as usual, that Parliament voted in the last days before Christmas, say, the budget and a month before tax laws. It is not that it is true that, well, then the government has fast-tracked the tax laws, and after a little while now in the autumn, when it was customary for us to negotiate tax laws, we are forced to renegotiate tax laws. This claim is simply not true. Anyone who knows this package of tax laws is aware that this law is about something else, and I am going to talk about this other thing, not the way that Congressman Burány has set up this tax law. What is it that lies in front of us? Basically, the amendment of the Act on Tax Procedure, which is Art, determines this package of laws, and as a result of that, of course, Art. We are also amending certain tax laws. Overall, let us all note that we are not imposing additional tax burdens, but either granting discounts or making procedural simplifications that will certainly be good for private individuals paying personal income tax and good for businesses. The tax policy of the Hungarian Government is typical, unlike what Congressman Burány said, what Kristóf Szatmáry said was that it has been predictable for some time. At the time when we came to government after the crisis, we took government from you, for the government, it was a dilemma to take forward the tax policy, the tax system that you have given us, or to touch a new one. It was not difficult to convince ourselves that your tax policy will lead us nowhere, because as a result of this tax policy, the country is in the hallway of bankruptcy, and during the excessive deficit procedure, which Hungary has been forced into as a result of your tax policy and as a result of its fiscal policy, has not been made up of this since our EU membership. From this shameful situation, the Orbán government has taken the country out, including by changing the thinking about taxes that you have represented. What else did we bring in? We have said that one of the important points of our philosophy is that we will consistently reduce wage-like taxes and increase consumption taxes if we are forced to do so. And, of course, we also said that the crisis will have a consequence that sectors that have been less taxed so far need to take their part more with temporary separate taxes and in all other ways to prevent the crisis. This is what we consistently represent now for a period of one and a half government cycles, and now the government has seen the time to touch procedural issues. So what we have here is more in line with the law that we started to negotiate a good week or two weeks ago on bureaucracy, the reduction of red tape, the reduction of red tape. [[17.10]] When an entrepreneur engages in his activities, he starts by starting his business, he meets the public administration, and the company keeps in constant contact with the Hungarian State, but the most important thing is obviously what happens year after year when he pays taxes to the Hungarian State in the framework of the tax procedure. The intention to reduce bureaucracy that this government is trying to achieve and to take this path would be one-sided if we were not able to do so in the tax procedure. I am talking about the system of government offices, regional government offices, district offices, where taxpayers and businesses turn around, will be seen tomorrow, I am convinced, there is already a more favourable picture of the customer's perception. If we could do this only in that area of life, then our activity would be one-sided. So it is very important that, in terms of tax procedures and the tax administration, we can also achieve this kind of change of approach, which we represent in other areas. This package of laws we are discussing is basically about this and not about the government's haste, as Congressman Burány has tried to present in a certain section. The Minister of State Tállai has also set this area as a question of competitiveness, and in this respect he is absolutely right, for Hungarian businesses it does not matter what environment, what tax procedure they encounter. I mean, like I said, it's a recurring question in their lives every year. If we can deliver facilitations and procedural simplifications here, then this means savings on the side of entrepreneurs, in this respect it is a competitiveness issue. What is the most important change of perspective that Art has. In this respect, did the socialist and the Fidesz keynote speakers highlight it as a positive thing? It is to judge taxpayers who have so far thought alike in some way, even though we know that these taxpayers were not the same. Some of the taxpayers have done very well. If I wrote András Tállai's data correctly, he classified 140,000 taxpayers, entrepreneurs, 25% of taxpayers. This category of taxpayers is a good debtor, a reliable taxpayer in the future, and this status is accompanied by various discounts, a shorter tax control deadline, if VAT is claimed back, then instead of 75 days so far, this will be temporarily fulfilled by the tax authority in 45 days, and a year later it will be done in 30 days. If this good taxpayer is forced to pay a tax penalty or a default fine by some mistake, it is maxed out to 50 percent of the amount paid so far. These are all such important and exciting questions that will take taxpayers in the direction that it is good to get into this circle, because it is not just a fig leaf, but such a rating has simply an economic value for the company. It is also important to mention what Kristóf Szatmáry has already mentioned, that if I sign with a taxpayer like this, who I know is on the list of good taxpayers, it is reassuring to me, because I know that my partner is someone that the state considers good. So I can see him as predictable and reliable. Obviously, the opposite is true; it is good to know about each other who the taxpayers are, who have outstanding debts, who are crafty. They will face various difficulties in the coming period. But basically, this distinction, I think, is acceptable, and there will be results. Integration of current accounts is a step that can only be welcomed because bureaucracy has been reduced. Let me talk to you about personal income tax. Yes, as a private person, this is a slightly simpler world, and we also meet with the tax authority every year when we make personal income tax returns. That's what it means, especially if someone wants to do it themselves, and there's a lot of people like that, the biggest problem for a private person. The aim of the IPEH, which will be imposed by law, is welcome and will result in this big and difficult task being carried out by the tax authority for us, in a way that 1.5 million people will be affected by 2016 and potentially up to 3.8 million personal income tax returns in 2017 when the tax authority makes our own declaration for us. We can either accept it, or we can contradict it, and we can take the procedure into our own hands. But since the IRS wants to do this well, it's a big, big relief. Obviously, it is not worth talking here about legislation which contains only technical or linguistic specifications. In the local tax law, I highlight one thing, and I also consider it important to change from the entrepreneur's side that the local tax declaration, here the recipient is the municipal tax authority, practically the notary, can be made to the tax authority by the subject of the local business tax, i.e. the entrepreneur. Obviously, this doesn't mean any dereliction from the local authority, it's just a way of reporting, it's gonna end up where it needs to be, but it doesn't have to use two software for the taxpayer to do his tax return. So in this respect, this is also simplification, and it is easier for the company. Environmental issues, electric tax and the reduction of charges thus payable are clearly acceptable and encouraging, especially now, in the context of the Volkswagen car group scandal series, this is certainly worth highlighting. I think, ladies and gentlemen, and to my colleague, Mr Sándor Burány, President of the Budget Committee, that he should never have any other pleasure than to say to an opposition Member, which I agree with, that there should be some extra money to be paid on pálinkafron. This can also be explained by the fact that the Brussels bureaucracy did not fully allow what we wanted. But I think that is the least of the problems of Hungarian private people and Hungarian businesses, that we were forced to retreat on pálinkafront. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-21-117	This package of laws is welcome, part of the reduction thinking that has come before us, and if we accept this, it will be easier for Hungarian businesses and will benefit them in this respect. So it increases their competitiveness, so our faction supports the adoption of the package. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-21-118	Thank you very much. The speaker of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, will take the floor. Here. Mr President, Dear House, Before we look at this package that is more than cosmetic, which lies before us, it is worth considering where we start. Here, at the time of the announcement of packages planned to reduce taxes in previous periods, or even when introducing new exotic tax types at tax increases, the government has always said that it is actually trying to implement the tax reduction budget, to simplify this system, to cut red tape, even if it has raised the level of the number and scope of State Secretarys of State, Deputy State Secretarys of State to quite amazing heights. But we do know that basically there are three things that can and can be taxed, income, consumption and wealth. In fact, in the centre of the Fidesz government's tax policy, taxes on consumption have always stood and stand. We can also see that the budget called tax reductions contains more than 200 billion increases in tax collection expectations compared to the previous period. So it is very difficult to link this with the tax reduction expectations, even though, in principle, the tax-paying camp is growing in your opinion, but it is not growing at a measurable level that justifies this tax collected by 200 billion more than before, to be more precise: these expectations. But we can also see that, in addition to the fact that one third of the central budget revenue comes from VAT payments, the expectations, together with the taxes linked to consumption, excise duty, registration tax, telecommunications tax, transaction tax - this is one of the funniest types - and together with the insurance tax, more than HUF 4600 billion are expected. With regard to these, we now have a package that affects only a relatively narrow circle and a few slices compared to this large number. It can also be seen that it could affect more serious areas in a better and more efficient way. [[17.20]] However, we also see that if we look at corporate tax revenues, which could seriously increase on this system, they will be reduced by an order of magnitude compared to VAT and personal income tax revenues. At the same time, we can see that we know that there are huge profits in these companies, Audi, GE, TEWA, Richter and other interests, for which there might be a need for respect for the exception, but more involvement. However, we see that many of them, not all of them, but many of them are almost identical in terms of pre-tax and taxed results. It follows that some companies do not pay or barely pay taxes, and these companies, one of which recently received a new, perhaps 6 billion, discount, are actually channeled into these companies as suppliers, as a assembler, a good part of the Hungarian economy, and then a Volkswagen scandal-like thing comes along, and we can worry about the Hungarian so-called GDP and the projected effects that can actually cut this whole system off. Meanwhile, the accounting profession has already known more than 50 forms of tax and tax withdrawal, and so have tax experts. Many of these exotic ones, such as the so-called soap tax, the shampoo tax used to be, were discussed just this week by the National Assembly about the extent to which they meet expectations or in what way they do not. After that, when we look at the speciesic elements of the package before us, we see that some of it may be on marginal issues, and another part may be on tax returns or on technical, confessional things that are very important and important in terms of convenience, but they do not transform history. Take, for example, the amendment to the 1990 Law on Charges, its intention. Here, too, we see that, in fact, in terms of electric cars, some, perhaps we can say, are making it easier for luxury goods. In fact, these types of cars are all available at horror prices, so in less than ten million people can rarely be caught on the market, who are able to buy at this price, certainly a lucky man, we do not envy him, but he represents a narrower social cross-section, so the average car customer does not belong here. However, as far as registration tax is concerned, it would arise if, let's say, cars below 1600 cc do not fall into a reduced category in the long term, where benefits could already be granted to a measurable social group and a measurable social mass. We also need to see that, if the environmental aspect is so important, we have just this week argued about the so-called environmental product fee that not only the government taxes solar panels, but also, where appropriate, electric boilers that could contribute to energy-saving uses, or that Hungarian people not only save on themselves, but also less burden and more spare the environment. These are subject to a special tax, and when it comes to special taxes, we can actually only show a substantial reduction in the banking sector where the government has entered into a very cowardly, very self-rewarding agreement with the EBRD, and therefore we can say that it has made certain setbacks. However, he also agreed to say that the situation of foreign exchange credit victims will no longer be substantially supported by new instruments. So we can say that there are absolutely eligible things in this package, and once again, these are often of a cosmetic nature, sometimes more about convenience, but what we see and what we can see is probably the biggest debate within the press will be triggered by the issue of tax returns, and that there is an apparent discount for all taxpayers here. I'd really like that to happen. The problem is that, on the basis of their current draft legislation and in the light of the current publication of the SAY Law, it is true that out of this whole preferential circle, to whom the tax authority would take this work off its shoulders, those who benefit from a tax base are excluded. So you have either mistakenly codified this, or the original intention was not to have very wide layers of 100,000 in this discount circle. Now they have the opportunity to correct this, but it is quite amazing why anyone who, say, has to benefit from a tax base in terms of health savings or pension savings should be excluded from this system. This is also interesting because, in this form, an unacceptable plan has been put on the table in relation to the tax ruling in respect of the declaration, which has no real reason to do so. The fact is that the taxpayer is entitled to this preferential form only if he does not enforce the tax base discount on which all relevant information can be found with the employer, and the employer normally transmits and delegates these data to the tax authority. Therefore, the tax authority has the data mass that could be taken off the burden, but you exclude it in your draft legislation, categorically excluding this helpful, lighter opportunity or the opportunity to do so for hundreds of thousands of people. This is not just about those who have pension savings, it is not just about those who are members of health institutions or, where appropriate, benefit from such benefits, it is simply about family people, it is about newlyweds, those who are trying to make extensive use of family tax benefits. Once again, information on the lucky arrival of a fetus should also be sent to the employer, the mass of information about the circumstances of the marriage will also appear at the employer, and the employer will normally and ideally forward to the tax authority the mass of data available, which can be organized, and which would allow these people to benefit from the same ease as anyone else. We see that if anyone wants to enforce this right in connection with the establishment of a pre-emptive one, then, in fact, even according to the paragraphs, the employer has to notify the relevant changes, i.e. there would be no obstacle for the tax authority to prepare their declaration on the basis of this statement. We are confused as to why this is not in your legislative plan, or why, if it arises here during the debate, we are not immediately adapting what they have done to us, because it is quite clear that this step, which could otherwise be sold logically, will not now be available for a very wide range of social groups. I fear that this will end in the same way as in the case of the so-called private failure, where we have had very serious debates, particularly with the honourable group leader of KDNP, who has, by the way, brought up senses, professionally, I feel that he has been well prepared to participate in the debate where we have indicated the concerns and problems that might arise with the private institution. At the time, it was argued by pro-government colleagues that this form could help some 20-25 thousand people. A written question about MSZP recently revealed that there were only a few hundred people in practice and that this list could increase by just a few more hundreds for the future. So we are afraid that we are again talking about a discount that is advertised to a very wide circle, the range of reachers, so those who become available by number, but much narrower. And, in fact, the questions arise: on the one hand, if you want to exclude broad groups from this possibility, why do you do so, if it is a simple slendrianity, or if it is a legislative error that has led to a failure to draft this bill, or is not in line with the law, then how can a force on the government for the fifth year put such a quality proposal on the table? So in any case, the situation that came up calls for an explanation. We very much hope that we will receive this during this debate. At systemic level, it would be very good to see that moving towards public burden-sharing would, indeed, be slightly less successful large enterprises where the pre-tax and post-tax results are virtually the same, i.e. in many cases the tax will be lost in part or in all. And it would be very good to see that, in the case of these so-called consumer-type taxes, a wide range of Hungarians achieve discounts that not only affect cars of more than ten million people, but also, where appropriate, what ordinary Hungarians have to suffer in terms of their daily purchases, let us say, the brutal VAT content of basic foods. There, too, a reduction from 27 to at least 5 per cent would be justified. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-21-119	So you can see that they have a sea of work to do. It is our request that you begin to carry out these things. Thank you for the opportunity. Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speeches by the lead speaker, Honourable Parliament.
u2015-10-21-120	Since an independent Member is not in the Chamber, two-minute speeches will follow. First, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the opportunity to find her microphone - she has found it, then, to speak. Here you go. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to add to the pálinkaharc, Mr. Secretary of State: do you know the difference between zero and 700 forints? That's exactly 700. And if we multiply that amount - now help us out if we're talking about 50 liters - by 700, that's 35,000 forints. I don't think that's going to be a success on the part of the government. [[17 .30]] Secondly, I am sorry that our fellow Member from KDNP has left, because I am shocked to hear that there will be a reduction in taxes. Then let me ask from the government that we would expect the same kind of reduction in government debt, the simple entrepreneurial tax citizens as this government allowed Andy Vajna. It is well known to the Secretary of State that the amount that the government gave to Andy Vajna as a gift is estimated at HUF 7-10 billion a year, because Andy Vajna does not have to pay VAT on the concession fee, and he is also the entrepreneur who does not even have to connect the slot machines to the NAV.
u2015-10-21-121	Secondly, let me ask a question to Mr Secretary of State, in response to my better fellow Member, who referred to soap tax, that he was given a new position because last year we called on him to pay soap taxes, that if the prices of products were to increase, he would resign. But I see you're not resigning, you're creating a new position for you. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-21-122	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát asked for another two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2015-10-21-123	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to introduce a very important aspect in the debate, while there has not been much mention here of the systemic problems affecting the tax system that are facing the national economy. I would like the Secretary of State to give an opinion on the list of OECD comparisons that is easily accessible on the Internet, which, by the way, places Hungary in the first place as regards the minimum wage tax list, and there are quite accurate percentage figures here. In Hungary, the rate of withdrawal of minimum wage workers has been 35 percent for two years. With this, we drove high, we beat 8 percent of the players in the second place, and then the Polish, German and Slovenian economies follow, and we also prevent them in the face of this brutal tax burden. The examination of the OECD countries concerned also examined families with two earners, which are unfortunately not typical, since the number of children in Hungary is significantly lower. But let us assume that in the long term we can move towards this fair average, and there it came out that Hungarian families of this type were the fourth worst taxed on this issue involving more than 30 countries. In the meantime, the four most backward regions of the EU are in Hungary, and we can show you things that provide the basis for the fact that it is not certain that discounts should be introduced here for cars over 10 million, but we stress once again: let us say, in terms of the VAT content of basic foods, in terms of reducing the VAT content of child-rearing products. But let's move on, let's say, to move from 27 to 5 per cent of the new-built apartments from 27 to 5 per cent, as they are all able to spin the natural domestic economy and its units, which, through normal multiplier effects, could finally start this country, but not in this way and not in a cosmetic way, as you would like.
u2015-10-21-124	There are no two-minute applications, so we are moving on to the speakers that have been announced. Congressman László Szakács is the first, MSZP. Here you go. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I must start by responding to what has been said in the debate; there has been a sharp debate about who has saved this country from what over the past five years. Obviously, this is a government phrase, you always save this country, and then somehow the population of the country is always running out, and everyone wants to leave or the majority wants to leave; they always reduce taxes, but somehow neither the percentage nor the number of taxes is falling, on the other hand. Obviously, the country was taken over in a state bankrupt state in 2010, even if Viktor Orbán himself said that the state's economic conditions were not bad and that they were good. He said this in 2010, when he took over and then after two excellent statements, after the Szijjártó-Kósa's double declaration, the exchange rate of the euro began to fall deeply. Then we thought that it would take time and hour, and this time and hour has now been five years since the euro is over 300 forints. So much for your great salvation. So if you guys happen to want to save someone, I could suggest you start running the other way right away, because the way you save someone, no one's gonna get away with it. In terms of success... I'll start somewhere else, sorry. I start from the fact that the goals that you have described are basically even eligible, most of them. What a step they are taking in this, we have a debate on this, and I think that my fellow Member Burány has said this very well, that there are some of them that are bigger, some of them even bigger, some of which could be made smaller. In fact, Secretary of State Harghitai also called that pálinka vita marginal; not because we come from the same county, but we agree with each other very much. I believe that the country's biggest problem is not whether the taxes should be paid after the brandy. Another thing is that you promised me something else, and you supported the schnapps, and you asked for a business plan. Therefore, these businesses are obviously now facing more serious burdens. This must have been a category of salvation. So these steps themselves, the direction itself, could be the right thing to do. Sometimes we, of course, do not always consider speed to be appropriate in this current legislation or in the present progression, but if, in terms of success, we are asked to accept that it will be successful, it will be good and effective, then I must say to you, fellow Members, that they are only asking for something they have not yet been worthy of. In 2010, when we started this debate from there, since János Harghitai, we were promised that this tax return would be available for a beer mat. Now, we're gonna have to make some big beer mats in this country to get a tax return! And then they told me that from now on, employees shouldn't do their taxes themselves. Instead, you didn't do it, but you entrusted it to the accounting companies of individual small and medium-sized enterprises, or even larger companies, and there was an extra job and an extra tax burden on this issue. And then from 2018, it will be different again, and we think, or I'm sorry, I may have said the wrong year here, so we're going to take another step in this direction, only in terms of its success, we're not convinced that from 2017 - yes, while I watched that from 2017 - the NAV, especially with around 8-10 percent drop-off between NAV employees in general, will be able to meet this objective from 2017 and not be the same embarrassing explanation as it usually is on tax issues. Its main point, a bit of a campaign, is that as of January 1, 2018, NAV will return VAT claims within 30 days, obviously to good taxpayers, I think this can be seen from other provisions of the law. That would be almost dreamy, by the way, because we know now that this is not the practice. The practice is mainly that, in the last quarters, when a sudden balance has to be improved, for example, in 2014, for example, a 3.6 percent increase in GDP, a 2.4 percent deficit, they quickly withheld the amount of VAT that was paid a little later, because it was in your interest at the moment. It is almost dreamy, however, that if they have recognized their own mistakes and try to do so, let us have the possibility of doubt - because we have much more experience with you than we have any illusion left - that this is likely to be a promise for the campaign and the campaign for Hungarian SMEs, which will certainly be respected in the first quarter if the elections are held in Hungary in April or May. So they might even keep them for a quarter. As regards environmentally friendly cars, my fellow Member Burány has said many things, and I agree with them, of course. [[17.40]] Yet, when the entire tax system is revisited by Art. We are talking about its continuous codification and recodification, and unfortunately, we see that these are always sound sentences, and instead there are always temporary taxes, which remain permanently with us, permanently burden certain sectors. Then there will be taxes, taxes, which we have never known before, because, starting from the environmental product fee, which is known as soap tax by the public, there would be a lot of taxes, a total of 40 types of taxes - almost impossible to keep in mind - that you have introduced, starting from transaction tax to a lot of things. Where is a tax system, which is conceptual, thought-out in its structure, and which stimulates the economy in a real matrix, which does not necessarily only benefit one layer of society, but also several layers of society, or even all of them? I know that there is no fair tax system, so I'm very quick to use that term.
u2015-10-21-125	In conclusion, we can say that the direction is good, the step is small in this case. It would have been nice to have argued about this and it was a waste to bring 2010 here, but I do not think we can do that without talking about it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-21-126	Thank you very much. There could be a two-minute speech - it's not encouraging, it's simply fact-setting - but no one came forward. Thus, I give the floor to a speaker who has been registered in advance. Congressman Nándor Gúr is next. Here you go. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. The Secretary of State performed a selection on the pulpit. Practically in his introductory thoughts, he said that there will be good taxpayers, or there will be bad taxpayers. He used different numbers. I couldn't really put it together. I'm sure you'll help me along the way with your comment. He said that about 25 percent would be among the good taxpayers, which would affect about 140,000 people, unity, and 10-20,000 of those who belong to the category of bad taxpayers. If 25 percent and 140 thousand, the 4×25 percent is 4×140 thousand, which is 640 thousand, if you look at the number of businesses. This increases the number of businesses in Hungary. So the numbers in this sense will be worth fixing up a little bit. The other part of the matter is that ratings include certain advantages or disadvantages, depending on whether they are a good taxpayer or a bad taxpayer. I think it's okay, it's okay, because if someone really does honour their obligations, then it should be useful. On the other hand, if a person fails to do so, it will operate under more restrictive conditions in a sense. If we consider a person to be risky, the Secretary of State said these aspects, but perhaps he did not mention the issue of a large tax deficit or tax debt, but he certainly did not mention what is related to the issue of black employment, or I could mention the closing of shops twice in a given year and other things that the draft law contains. I would like to highlight only one of these, and that is the job of black ops. In Hungary - it doesn't take great science, and now the man on the street knows it, because he has experienced it - unfortunately, on the stage of employment there is a very large proportion of black employment or gray. For this reason, of course, I support the kind of idea and direction that is about making employers who employ black or grey into risky qualifications. This is not included in the draft law, but it would be okay to add this, simply because it would be possible to make the economy, the functioning of the economy, and, in a sense, to bring economic benefits to the country. The other part of the story, on the other hand, is that when these promises - placed in quotes - are placed on the table, two things should never be forgotten. One thing is that you promised people a beer mat, and you said that a beer mat could make a tax return. On the other hand, do not forget what tax burdens and how many have been imposed on people in 2011-12 and subsequent years. About 30 new taxes were levied, and only in 2011-12 the additional tax burden that people and businesses had to face was over HUF 2000 billion. When tax burdens of this magnitude have been imposed as a surplus compared to the previous period, you have to look at the length of this current tax law and you can see that it is a small fraction of what you have imposed in the past. In English: 100 times, a thousand times as much tax burden has been imposed in previous years as they are now returning to people through small lollipops or sucking candies, and this is what they are saying. That's what they're talking about, "Wow, we're doing wonders, how much good we do for people, and they took away the multiples, hundreds of times, if any, a thousand times, and they put it on people as a burden. These two aspects of the story are worth looking at. I don't really want to deal with the details in this sense, because what appears in the tax relief of the purchase of cars, in relation to taxes, in other respects, is almost - I say - zero equivalent, by the way. There too should be a question of VAT, you know, the 27 percent, European champion or world champion VAT. Then, yeah, they'd give people a lot of help. But let's just say I don't want to go around cooking schnapps. Not even because the Secretary of State himself is in our midst, who, in Brussels, has won this battle with a title. Secretary of State, I can't tell you anything else, but the fact that the purchase of the spirit tax tickets costs 700 HUF/litre, taking into account the 42 per cent distillate, and the maximum price per year, if I remember correctly, is 86 such spirit tickets, only as a result of a simple multiplication - 700×86 - comes out immediately, that is seven times eight 56, which is roughly 60 thousand forints. [[17.50]] Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has just said what is the difference between 700 and zero. That's 700, but I'm a little bit more refined. Do you know how many times 700 is zero? It will be difficult for you to answer that, although your mathematical knowledge is certainly advanced, but I would like to say to you that the shift from zero to zero always means a great deal. In this sense, this....we won the Battle of Brussels....the revelation is a bit cynical. You could say this very simply, say, in the case of pálinka, to protect you from András Tállai or Viktor Orbán, because it brings this with it, 700 forints of spirit tax tickets in practice. As far as VAT is concerned, what you're planning to do is not to say it's wrong, no. I'm not saying that. I'm saying it's hard to do, and based on what they've done so far, it's almost unthinkable. Here I can only come to the conclusion that my fellow Member, Szakács, said: it might be maintained for a quarter, if they had the chance, but they will not have the chance, in this sense it will not be necessary to deal with this issue for 2018. Nor is it a bad idea, as they say, that 7.5 percent of the fees on foreign motorways can be deducted from municipal tax payments. Although I am confident that this loss, which will be borne by the municipalities in this regard, will be complemented by the government, so again it does not want to impose another burden on the municipalities. It is good, of course, from the perspective of businesses, that it can reduce the tax burden they have to pay to municipalities, but it would be appropriate for the government to provide the municipalities with this loss. So not everything has to be passed on, and in the meantime, we have to talk about how this glorious government is doing good things for people. No! Then it must be said to the municipalities individually that it is we, the municipalities, who practically let go of a fee of 7.5 percent, because that is the legal reference. But it's not the government who's doing so well. It is also okay that the rate of duty or non-Community tax or charge below EUR 10 is not to be paid. I'm not saying they're okay, they're good things. I just want to point out once again that, compared to what you've thrown at people as a burden, what you're trying to do is return in drip form or talk about giving it back, there are differences of magnitude. The other thing I wanted to say was that when my fellow Member Kristóf Szatmáry talked about how good the situation was, I would also like to point out to him what had happened to the number of taxes - almost thirty new taxes - what had happened with regard to the burden - more than HUF 2 000 billion in additional burden - what had happened, say, in terms of minimum wages - I will give a little more details about this - and who was the beneficiary of this. Well, there's a beneficiary, like everything else, which means the government is the beneficiary, not the people. Meanwhile, if you've spoken so gloriously about these things, where is the 1 million new jobs in the economy that could actually bring results? And, of course, let us never forget, if we are talking about taxes, the rate of 27 percent VAT, which, as I said, is also a European and world summit. And I would add that when we talk about the 1 million new jobs, you should always remember how many people have been forced to leave this country in the last five years. According to Matolcsy, it was about half a million at the time. About 600,000 people were forced to leave because they couldn't make a living at home. And, you know, this roughly 600,000 people refer home to the funds equivalent to HUF 1200 billion, which, if we count 600 thousand, means that 2 million forints per person are sent home every year. In Hungarian, through this branch, I want to authenticate the figures about the fact that more than half a million people left this country during the period of your government, and they didn't have a job opportunity, not out of a good mood, not out of an adventure, not from much else, but simply because you excluded them from the world of work. My fellow Member, Sándor Burány, has already said the basics, and I do not need to add them, I just say that predictability, as he said, is an essential category. And while you are here, Mr State Secretary, I say that the National Tax and Customs Office and an institution that should operate without any policy. I wonder how you, as a fidesz politician, will manage the National Tax and Customs Office politically. At least have faith in it, and then the day-to-day events will confirm or deny it. I'd like to tell you one item in these two or three minutes. This is the item mentioned by János Harghitai, the minimum wage contribution. In 2010, the net minimum wage was HUF 60 236, now it is HUF 68 775. Employers paid HUF 20 945 as a contribution in 2010, now HUF 29 925. Employees' contributions were 13 246 HUF in 2010, now 36 225 HUF. The total load in 2010 was 34 212 HUF, now 66 150 HUF. In Hungarian, the employer's contribution burden increased by HUF 9 thousand in the five years behind us, the employee's contribution burden increased by HUF 23,000, so all the contributions were increased by HUF 32,000 or suffered so much. The result of this HUF 32,000, which was added to employers and employees, is that he takes into his hands a minimum wage worth less than HUF 5 000, the person who is forced to work for minimum wage is putting it in his pocket. There's a profiter, that's the government, but not the people. It is not random that poverty in Hungary is growing in a measurable way. It is not random that differences in Hungary have become immeasurable. What should be changed, Mr Secretary, is that people who are doing their job for as little money as the minimum wage today, i.e. 5 thousand forints less, get more money in their hands. You know, what you should do is at least start a process during the pay negotiations to ensure that the net value of this minimum wage is at least equal to the minimum wage per person. Then, in the second stage, if they still have time, they should strive to reach a net amount of HUF 100,000. And even if it does, we will only get to the point where we will catch up with Europe's average in terms of purchasing power, and we will not be in a favourable position. But then at least this government can say that it has launched a process that is trying to prevent poverty processes and is trying to strengthen the catching-up process.
u2015-10-21-127	Look, if there is a drop of decency in this government towards the people who are doing their daily activities for small amounts of money, then it is worthwhile and necessary to start on this road. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-21-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Speakers seeking a normal word will follow. Congressman György Szilágyi is first, Jobbik. Here you go. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Act on the Rules of Taxation is a basic standard that affects the lives of all Hungarians and provides a framework for the collection of budgetary revenue. The importance of the amending proposal is therefore undisputed. The amendment contains a number of clarifications, technical changes, which hopefully will make the tax declaration, payment and collection of taxes easier and easier for both taxpayers and the tax administration in practice. My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, has already said Jobbik's position on the bill, he has said the questions and anomalies that have arisen within us, so I would like to deal with only one aspect of the bill specifically. The part of the legislative amendment that distinguishes between reliable taxpayers and risky taxpayers deserves to be highlighted. The new legislation is also remarkable, since so far the main elements of public authority have dominated the tax procedure, and positive feedback and confirmation for honest taxpayers have been virtually unknown. Therefore, it is commendable that the effort that is reflected in the legislative amendment before us is, in my view, an important step towards a truly service-friendly and customer-friendly tax authority. The distinction between reliable and risky taxpayers appears in the proposal in several procedural ways and in the case of acts. However, in my view, the maximum time limit for tax control in the case of taxable persons who are considered reliable remains alarming for 180 days. We all know from practice that if a maximum time limit for the implementation of a formal act is laid down in the relevant rule, then the determining administrator will deal with the case with this in principle, so the actual time needed to implement the procedural act will be close to the maximum period laid down by law. At present, we could mention a number of examples where the duration of tax controls was well over 180 days, and it is not uncommon that a check takes almost a year. Compared to this, in the case of reliable taxpayers, the duration of the verification is 180 days, although it is a forward-looking effort, let us consider that 180 days is half a year. For a period of six months, the tax authority will carry out a check on a taxpayer who has previously been qualified positively for the behaviour of the taxpayer. In my opinion, this period is incontrovertible, and I have therefore tabled an amendment, which will maximize the duration of checks for reliable taxpayers for 90 days. Of course, in the event that the taxpayer under control does not provide the tax authority with the documents necessary for the verification, the deadline may exceed this level, the amendment proposed by me is without prejudice to this provision. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[18.00]]
u2015-10-21-129	Given the government's ambition that the tax office is about to undergo a major transformation, I can only hope that the positive trends in this amendment will also take place in the practice of the reformed official organisation. Once again, I would ask the Secretary of State and my fellow Members to consider - although I know it is not customary to accept the opposition amendments - that we have indeed made a constructive proposal for this amendment, since 90 days should be enough for the tax authorities to carry out a check on a reliable taxpayer, so that we can provide an even greater relief for both the tax authority and the taxpayer. Please consider the proposed amendment to the Jobbik Hungary Movement to accept it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-10-21-130	Thank you very much. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is the next speaker, LMP. Here you go. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to apologise to my fellow pro-government Members because, you know, I do not feel it my job to highlight the positives of the amendment in my speech; obviously, given my position as an opposition, I would like to draw attention to some of the problematic points that might be considered in substance on the basis of common sense. Some minor amendments to reduce the administrative burden for coordination are also eligible, as they can help the lives of taxpayers, but it is a funny situation that the budget and the tax laws were adopted in the spring with a cry that everything will be predictable and stable. Well, you can pretty much see it, it's so predictable that they're already bringing in a small package, and for example, they're making a significant adjustment to the rules, deadlines and methods of taxation. So much for stability, if it could be stable for a few months, and that's how it could be prepared. For my part, as my fellow Members have said earlier, I read with interest the presentation of the category of reliable taxpayer and risky taxpayer. I would just like to draw your attention to one thing, Mr. Secretary of State and the government. The announcement of a reliable taxpayer system will obviously make life easier for many and simplify, but I find this risky category of taxpayers a bit of a concern. It means that if a person lives as an employee for years and, let's say, has only one income derived from wages, then he can easily become a reliable taxpayer, since his employer does the administrative work afterwards, and therefore his reliability is based on it. At the same time, there are many small and medium-sized enterprises who undertake to suffer from the employment of one or two people, the occasional replacement of these people, by creating work in a rural area, very easily to make mistakes, because in this sector personal fluctuations, production activities, very often the unpredictable tax environment can easily push them into one mistake. Despite the fact that they do a very important job for society in terms of social responsibility, they are the ones who create jobs. As a result, I feel somewhat concerned that it is easy to get into the risky category of taxpayers from such a medium, despite the fact that there is a greater social responsibility on the part of these small and medium-sized enterprises, because there is a greater possibility of error where there is greater responsibility. I would be delighted to see that this risky category of taxpayers could be refined at some level and to distinguish between taxpayers who, in many cases, do not simply fall into mistakes, but unwittingly, which could cause them to fall into the category of risky taxpayers. It would be good for the government to appreciate and pay tribute to small and medium-sized enterprises that create jobs and take into account the related tasks in the risky tax category, rather than what we so often experience, that such small and medium-sized enterprises are placed in the target group of the NAV, the primary target group, and in this particular group, the monitoring activity of the NAV that can impose the most sanctions is the most important. This is obviously why it is this medium of small and medium-sized enterprises that can be a loser of this system, as they can be subject to much more controls from a permanent category of risky taxpayers, and unfortunately this can continue to be the entrepreneurship of Hungarian society. I am sure you are aware that we are among the worst in the European Union's comparison in terms of entrepreneurship, and that there are also the least proportion of those who start their careers in individual businesses, self-employment or possibly small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, for almost a year, the closure of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary has been constantly breaking new records. It would therefore be very good to try to help Hungarian initiative to create such small businesses, not to make their lives difficult by a risky category of taxpayers. It also arises, in this package there is the fact that if the buildings of the monument begin to be renovated within a year, the levy will be refunded. This can also be a desirable and useful measure on its own, but I would like to draw the attention of legislators or legislators to the fact that there are a lot of historic buildings that could not be protected because of the lack of renovation, the current state of the building, the current or previously built bad windows. This is not a category that is so easy to obtain, but a number of properties could be converted back into monuments if the legislation helped. So if you consider in the Ministry that all buildings that become monuments after purchase and renovation should also have such a discount in order to encourage customers to try as much as possible to restore buildings from a cityscape point of view, from a historic point of view, in its original state. This measure is a starting step, but this could be improved by extending this kind of regulation to the protection of monuments acquired after restoration and reconstruction. I would ask the Secretary of State to consider this. In part, we were pleased to see that registration tax, company car tax, car tax, electric and zero emission vehicles are exempt. However, a large proportion of Hungarian companies obviously cannot use this type of technology, so it would be good to try to help with further tax factors. Although it is clear that the beneficiaries should not include taxpayers who are able to obtain such high-value vehicles, they should be able to provide as much assistance as possible to those who are not yet able to do so. Secretary of State, help me understand a little: did I understand correctly in the material that sloop and mushroom pickers were taxed? I read in the proposal that 25 percent of their income is now a tax base for sloes and mushrooms collectors, so they are covered by 4 percent of their product, which is deducted by the purchaser at the time of the acquisition. What clearly appears to be a danger that he might deduct it, but he will not admit it, because the administration and control of this is not so simple, because we are talking about wild plants or mushrooms, for which this will not be an easy registration and administrative task. I don't know how much you've thought about putting this into practice, but it might be worth considering. As regards the reregulation of private brandy, my fellow Members have repeatedly spoken here in Parliament in the previous ones. To be honest, I agree that this is obviously not the biggest problem for Hungarian taxpayers, but thousands of people in Hungary bought brandy cooking equipment as a result of the facilitation that made it possible to cook pálinka for their own purposes. These equipment has been purchased from a few thousand thousand forints, and this will now be paid over and over again in the form of a tax, since the rates that have now been published at the private pálinka cooking are the price of one of these equipment. So, in practice, the government, if not because of its own fault, but because of the obligations of the European Union, has put those who bought it in an awkward position, legally, paying VAT on these appliances, and can then only cook again under the tax burden. I don't know what the solution is, it would obviously be nice to think about whether these home cooks could be helped with some kind of compensation, since they did what they did in good faith. [[18.10]] Let me draw attention to one more thing. The transfer fee will be abolished for environmentally friendly vehicles, which may, by the way, have positive benefits, as well as for buses and semi-trailers and freight wagons, only if bought by an economic entity. This seems a little like a discount for large cargo carriers that should be given to think about. We do not know how much this is a Wáberer gift or Wáberer tax law, because this can be a 100-300 thousand forint relief for a truck, and in the system of saddle tractors we find large entrepreneurs rather than small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. What I'm concerned about is that some of the tolls are being deducted from the business tax, even the foreigner. This is typically used to beat nettles with their other staff, since they are drawing resources from local authorities with virtually a discount for large ones. Obviously, a significant part of the local authorities - Mr Tállai State Secretary should know from his former work and life situation - are not in such a good position to do so. So what should be done is to help the municipalities to preserve their own tax revenues rather than to give them a tax relief that will take more tax away from the municipalities. So far, I have talked about what is now in the amendment, and now let me say three things that are not included, but we would like to see them. Speaking of the 2003 XCII on the system of taxation. There is a law on the amendment of legislation to amend certain tax laws, and I would have been pleased to see the government reconsidering how the single-key implementation and reduction of this personal income tax is in the interests of society, as we see even more in Hungarian society that the fragmented income conditions are making it a very narrow circle. I would have been pleased to see such an amendment and it would be easier for us to vote in favour if they finally saw the mistake that they had made with the introduction of a single-key tax. Similarly, one of these propaganda products of the 2016 tax laws was the reduction of the VAT on pigmeat to 5%. In the past period, if the problems of this legislation had been reconsidered and some practical proposals were made to improve it, I would certainly have considered whether, in the current animal housing situation, it would have been appropriate to consider whether, either in the case of cows' milk problems in the European Union or in the sheep sector or in the freshwater fish farming sector, since health problems and health preservation would have an increasing role to play, let us say, fish consumption in Hungarian society, whether it would have been appropriate to consider extending this 5 per cent VAT reduction to all animal production sectors that have higher living needs and contribute not only to rural employment, but also to a significant sector.
u2015-10-21-131	Obviously, the last point we would also have liked to have seen is the statistics I have already mentioned this week on Monday's question to the Prime Minister. The statistical data now clearly show that in the small and medium-sized sectors under 5 employees, i.e. in virtually family farms, while there was a 40% decrease in these producers between 2000 and 2010, this alone is 15 per cent, which means that the number of small farmers and self-employed enterprises has accelerated. Indeed, it would have been very good if these statistics, which saw the light of day during the summer, had been used to help this type of agricultural activity, whether in connection with the involvement of its farmers or family members, and how we could preserve this type of traditional farming for Hungarian agriculture. I ask Mr Secretary of State that, if there is a way, he should respond to my suggestions even in the course of the debate, so that I may be able to respond to his answers. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-21-132	Mr Nándor Gúr asked for a two-minute speech. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have two simple thoughts, Mr. Secretary. One is the question of the spirit tax ticket for the brandy, this 700 forints. If you take it 86 times, which is maximum available in a given year, it means an extra burden of HUF 60 200. But this is not what I want to push, but what I really wanted to say in connection with this is that such battles are not worth winning, or so it is not worth winning battles according to your vocabulary, so that it is an extra burden for the people. The other thing I want to get back to, and I have a suggestion for you, Secretary of State, is to consider it, and perhaps it would still be appropriate for you to polemize, talk about it, before you say it. This concerns the minimum wage itself. As I mentioned, the minimum wage contribution from 2010 to 2015 is plus HUF 32 thousand. Well, if this contribution was to be taken by the government, not by the government, but by the people, then we would be able to get to the point that today's net minimum wage of 68 775 forints would be virtually in the vicinity of 100 thousand forints. It would be worth considering, Mr Secretary of State, that the government should give up on the extra charge it is collecting from employers and workers and benefit people who are working on a minimum wage today. I do not think that there should be such a degree of resignation as to make the budget impossible. I don't think so, I know. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And my request is that when life turns out to be overseeing the National Tax and Customs Office, you have to believe me now, I ask you once again.
u2015-10-21-133	that it will ensure that there is no policy. Then I'll ask you how and how. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much. It is my duty to ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. I'm looking at the hands, and I don't see anyone signaling. That's right. Therefore, as no one has applied for further speeches, Honourable Parliament, the general debate is closed. [[For signal:]] Does the Secretary of State wish to react?
u2015-10-21-134	Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor. Here. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, I would like to answer some questions. Although I have been involved in many tax debates in Parliament over the last few years, I must admit that I have not yet met the fact that both the pro-government and opposition groups say that there are basically eligible elements in the proposal, and in fact the content of the proposal has not been criticised, but that the opposition has received the most criticism of those which are not included in this tax package or the tax package. There is also a small misunderstanding with the opposition, because the aim of this package of laws was not to fundamentally change the level of taxation, its size, but rather to simplify tax procedure rules, and to transfer the merits of certain government policy and economic policy objectives through tax laws. These include, in particular, the tax relief for electric cars and the various tax incentives granted to carriers. That is therefore not the purpose of this referral, since there is an approved tax law, which we actually adopted in the spring, which will be due from 1 January. [[18.20]] Of course, opposition parties do not highlight what is eligible, but they spoke briefly about it, although it surprised me that the head speaker of the MSZP, Sándor Burány, did not mention a word about the transformation of the personal income tax return system, although this is one of the most significant positive changes in the presentation, in my opinion. We will soon reach the time, in 2017, when, in essence, individual taxpayers do not need to make a tax return, we do not need to spend energy, we do not need to spend money, we do not need to listen to an expert, we do not need to bring the certificates collected to the tax advisor to prepare the complex tax return, but, in essence, this task will be carried out in two steps by the tax authority at two paces. For the first time in 2016, i.e. this year's tax returns will be provided by the tax authority to the one and a half million people who will ask for this. Those who do not benefit from tax relief may apply to their employer for tax returns by 31 January. Although Congressman Dániel Z. Karpat has left, I would like to say that he is likely to misunderstand, and he was only talking about next year's change. About what happens a year later, in 2017, that for all 3.8 million people, the tax authority makes the declaration, he either didn't look at it in the bill or he didn't understand it. So I would like to reassure you, through the protocol, that we will indeed achieve that, instead of everyone, the tax authority will make its declaration, and the tax authority will have the capacity to do so, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it will be available. [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] What everyone was concerned with was the introduction of brandy and spirits taxes. Yes, this is the end of a long debate that the Hungarian Government has held with the European Commission. In the end, we had to return to the taxation of home cooking on the basis of the contract signed upon entry. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: That is not true, Mr. Secretary of State.]] What is important, however, is that, on the one hand, this option, the possibility of home brewing, remains. The possibility of home brewing pálinka still does not require any registration, no administration needs to be carried out, no need to report to the NAV in essence.
u2015-10-21-135	What's wrong? You want me to get you a schnapps?
u2015-10-21-136	Easy, easy, easy. I'm entitled to determine what's wrong, and I'll determine it. It's okay for now, we won't bring any brandy into the Chamber, and we'll take care of it outside. The Secretary of State, without interrupting your exciting and valuable thoughts, proceed. What is very important is that it does not fall under the control of the National Tax and Customs Office, but the municipal tax authority, so the notary, will control it, only if something illegal has happened, so the law is not respected by the home brewer. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] As far as the battle is concerned, the Hungarian people have had five years to basically cook schnapps free, free, without taxes. [[Nándor Gúr: 60 200.]] The other thing is that you had to pay 1000 HUF registration tax now, and if someone buys the price of five liters, five times seven is 3,500 forints, it comes down to 1000, because it has already been paid, then exactly as I calculate, the possibility of cooking the brandy at home will cost 2,500 HUF more. I said this only for the sake of the facts, not to persuade opposition representatives to do so. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Revenues from the casino? Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The 2012 law must be drawn up, Mr Secretary of State!]] But if Mrs Bangóné has already made comments during my speech, let me tell you that the VAT on the gambling concession fee is not missing from the budget, because before that, under socialist governments, when you were not a Member, but were governed by the socialists, it was still VAT-free. So let's just say that the European Union has a single, proper regulation on this issue. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Is it now?]] The other very important thing, returning to the question of regulation of the sija declaration, has also been raised by several people, and I think that there is also a complete consensus that the administration of individuals will cease, otherwise this will be an almost unique new system of reporting in Europe. I think the beer mat system is going to go away. [[Anita Beringes, showing you an A/4 card, is that a beer mat?]] Now, yes, the congresswoman doesn't know that either. It's called a tax declaration. It's a one-page tax return. In total, there are four ways a private individual can make a tax return today. From 2017, it will replace this one, this particular return offer, which the individual will receive. [[18.30]] We are pleased that many have raised the question of VAT reductions again. I indicate that this package of laws was not intended to regulate such far-reaching changes. I would like to say that, indeed, the government is considering extending the VAT reduction, for example by reducing the VAT on housing constructions, and by reducing the VAT on other services, it is hoped that a decision will be taken on this issue and that we can continue to extend the reduction of this turnover tax rate and its extension. In fact, what's important is a matter of good and bad taxpayers. This was also welcomed by the parliamentary parties in a uniform manner. They basically agree with him. Some were worried about the good taxpayer, some were worried about the risky taxpayer. It is true that, after the law introduced, the practice will show how to further refine it, as it is also a system in few countries in Europe, yet we considered it important that taxpayers who comply with their tax obligations should be given a tax advantage. To suggest to György Szilágyi that 180 days of control is a lot: I think that basically this question really needs to be considered, because 180 days is a maximum deadline. It does not mean that it has to be checked for 180 days, and there are indeed checks that can be completed much earlier, but the tax authority must be given the opportunity, if, say, a taxpayer that is also in contact with taxpayers in other countries, so that international evidence and documents can be obtained by the tax authority, it must be given time to do so. One thing is certain: the practice that the tax authority now has, for several years, cannot even produce a report, let alone a first-rate decision against which the taxpayer may appeal, must indeed be abolished by the tax authority. As regards the conversion of the NAV or my person, it is indeed not included in this bill. There'll be another bill. I think that it is not unprecedented in Europe that the Ministry, the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Economy receive direct management powers in relation to the tax authority. This is well confirmed by international examples. Several people are returning to the anomalies of the tax system. The LMP refers to the existence of a single-key tax. I believe that this has already been demonstrated by life that the single-key tax system is good enough, and society has accepted this and demands that the VAT on additional basic foods be reduced, which is also not the subject of the bill. This is an opportunity to discuss. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your comments. I am pleased that the content of the bill has not been much criticised. We will see what kind of amendments Members of Parliament can make, and we will obviously discuss it, take it to the government, and decide whether the government will support them with what classification the amendment will bring to the committees or the Parliament. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-10-21-137	Overall, I think this bill is forward-looking. Indeed, as you have said, the direction is right, and I trust that we can continue to continue this direction, namely the reduction of administration, bureaucracy, the simplification of the tax procedure in the future, and that we can indeed create a tax system, a tax administration that will essentially take into account the interests of taxpayers, the aspects of taxpayers, and that is essentially a customer-friendly tax system. One step in this is the bill that I am asking for the Members to support me. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the draft law on the introduction of international financial reporting standards for specific reporting purposes and amending certain laws on financial matters until closure follows. The government referral is T/6638. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network.
u2015-10-21-138	First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As a result of the development of capital markets and financial globalisation, a significant part of businesses fulfil their financial reporting obligation by applying the most common accounting system in the world, international financial reporting standards or also IFRSs. Using these new standards, corporate data, management information will be made available and comparable at international level. This is important for any undertaking that maintains business relations with more than one country. In Hungary, international standards are currently required to be applied only in a very narrow manner to consolidated annual accounts of listed companies. In addition, the Accounting Act allows non-listed companies to apply them to consolidated accounts. However, with regard to individual annual accounts, there is no possibility today for an undertaking to apply the standards instead of the domestic accounting standards. In order to improve the competitiveness of the domestic business and to reduce administrative burdens, there is an increasing need for the use of standards for specific reporting purposes in our country. This demand is particularly strong for foreign-owned enterprises, as well as for companies operating abroad, as the system of IFRSs is essentially characterised by a financial approach and information provision based on investors' needs. With the application for individual reporting purposes, the annual accounts of domestic companies will be directly comparable to those of foreign competitors, business partners, and companies with foreign parent companies will no longer have to keep double records in order to provide adequate data to their parent companies. The European Union also makes it possible to apply IFRSs in such a way that Member States may allow or require certain companies to compile their individual annual accounts or consolidated annual accounts on this basis. Member States' practices vary considerably in this respect. Overall, however, it can be said that standards are being made available in more and more Member States and, in some cases, mandatory for both consolidated accounts and individual annual accounts. Dear Parliament, The government has understood the needs of businesses and investors and supports the broadest possible application of international standards. To this end, it has drawn up the necessary legislative amendments. This bill contains all the legislative amendments necessary for the application for individual reporting purposes. Government decision on the introduction of IFRSs has been preceded by broad social consultation. In doing so, there was complete agreement in the introduction in Hungary and that its application should not be extended to the smallest enterprises. Accordingly, it is proposed that standards should not be applied to undertakings below the audit obligation threshold. The introduction should be carried out in several stages, gradually between 2016 and 2018. The gradual introduction will provide an appropriate period of preparation for both businesses and the authorities concerned. It has also become clear in the course of professional preparation that companies should be given the option of choice in the first place and compulsory application should only be required in certain priority sectors. The latter fall within the scope of financial undertakings subject to a prudential regulation equivalent to a credit institution, a stock exchange firm, a credit institution or a credit institution. The required time of preparation shall be taken into account in the mandatory application. Therefore, the mandatory application will only take place from 2017 and, in some cases, from 2018. Dear House, The IFRS system is a separate accounting system that fully defines the principles of application and the rules of valuation. Consequently, the proposed amendment to the Accounting Act only contains additional provisions which are not covered by the standards. This is due to domestic regulatory features such as inventory, documentary, auditing, deposit and disclosure. In order to ensure consistency with the domestic economic and company law environment, the bill sets out specific provisions for the transition to reporting under the bill and for the return to domestic legislation, as well as for special company law situations such as transformations, mergers, divisions and winding-up and winding-up. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The concept of local business tax and corporate tax is closely linked to accounting accounting rules. It is therefore necessary, in parallel with the introduction, to establish specific tax base rules for taxpayers who lead their registers under IFRSs. The aim of the new additional rule system is to ensure that the tax position of entrepreneurs does not change depending on whether their individual annual accounts are prepared according to Hungarian accounting rules or standards. It is important that the transition remains neutral for both local business tax and corporate tax. On issues where there is no such special rule, such as the provisions on the subject of the tax, the creation of a tax liability, the general rules on local business tax, which are still in force, must be applied. Similarly, the Corporate Tax Act provides for a new chapter on special rules for taxpayers applying IFRSs. [[18.40]] Due to the differences in Hungarian accounting rules and international rules on tax bases, the bill also lays down important guarantee rules in order to ensure that there is no temporary reduction of liquidity in the individual tax categories due to the changeover. In the context of these guarantee rules, the proposed legislation lays down as a minimum tax base for local business tax that the tax base for the tax year of conversion and the tax year following the tax year of conversion should not be less than the tax base for the tax year preceding the year of transition.
u2015-10-21-139	A similar requirement is laid down in the bill in respect of corporate tax, with the exception that in the tax year of transition and in the tax year following the transition, the tax year before the change and not the tax base are set as a benchmark, as a minimum tax. Dear House, In addition to the proposed amendment of the Accounting Act and the Tax Laws, it is also necessary to clarify some other legislation. These include the amendment of the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises and the Act on Investment Enterprises and Stock Exchange Providers. In these cases, the President of the National Bank of Hungary is authorised to issue regulations in which, acting in his power to supervise the financial intermediary system, it lays down prudential requirements. These requirements are currently laid down in separate government regulations containing specific accounting rules, which will not cover reporters under the new rules. This justifies the granting of a power to draw up a regulation. Each undertaking will be subject to the same requirements in the Regulations laying down prudential rules. Dear House, The application of IFRSs for individual reporting purposes will increase the transparency of business accounts and the comparability of business information. This will also directly help to increase the competitiveness of the undertakings concerned and reduce the administrative burden. I therefore ask that the bill be debated and supported. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-21-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I would like to give the floor first to Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, please. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The IFRS system is a separate, clear, widely used accounting regulatory system, which typically differs from local accounting rules by using a principle approach rather than specific, specific or taxative rules. Why is there a need to amend the law for applying an accounting standard? As in many cases, we are talking about the transposition of an EU directive into national law. To be more specific, strengthening the free flow of services is the main motivation for regulation. While we've come this far, it's a very long story, let me just say that I'm not going to explain it in detail right now. In March 2000, the Lisbon European Council decided to speed up the completion of the internal market for financial services, and then it continued until 2008, when an EC regulation laid down international accounting standards and related interpretations. Then they were amended and, in fact, the EU legal environment that created the current regulation was established after 2012 and which will be transposed in Hungary as well. We are also in Hungary after a very long and thorough preparatory work. On 23 June 2015, the National Assembly adopted a law on a similar subject, and in fact the motivation for change in spring 2013/4. It was a transposition of the EU Directive, so a number of the rules applied in IFRSs were transposed into the Hungarian accounting rules even then. For the first time in the preparation of EU rules in Hungary, audit firms examined the willingness and current application of domestic companies to introduce IFRSs. The results show that 49 percent of respondents are currently preparing IFRS-based reporting, a so-called reporting package for a foreign parent company, or are preparing an IFRS report primarily at the request of banks. In practice, 87 percent of respondents said that they would use or use IFRS at the level of individual accounts if certain conditions were met, which is a very convincing ratio. It can therefore be seen that stakeholders are also willing to become familiar with this new reporting system. Later, in 2014, five working groups were established in the first quarter of the year in order to introduce IFRSs, accounting, tax training, translation, statistics, and financial and capital markets in Hungary. As a result of the work carried out, a government decision was taken to support the introduction by the government. On this basis, the preparation of the bill before us started, as it required a great deal of careful consideration to be made in line with a number of accounting-related legislation. During the preparation, it was important that the use of international financial reporting standards should not result in the companies concerned operating a double accounting system. In addition, a capital adequacy table for elements of equity under an accounting law which ensures, for example, that the Ptk. The company's legal provisions may use concepts such as subscribed capital, capital reserves, profit or loss with unchanged principle. Dear House, It is then worth clarifying who will be subject to the transformation, which companies will be required to use IFRS standards. The bill provides a long list of exceptions and rules in this regard, so allow me to summarize this briefly, all the more so, because the Secretary of State has already spoken about this in detail. He also spoke about the introduction, Mr Secretary of State, which is divided into three years from the first day of next year. There will be farmers who have to apply IFRSs, while others can choose them, and a narrow circle of legislation will be excluded from the application. Therefore, since the Secretary of State has presented these things, I would rather not do so. I would perhaps point out who should not use IFRSs for specific reporting purposes: property managers, non-profit companies, cashiers, foundations, associations, condominiums, law firms, mergers, social cooperatives and water companies. The draft amends the law on local taxes and corporate tax, which is based on how these taxes should be determined in the IFRS system. A lot of related legislation is being amended, let me not talk about it either, because the Secretary of State has also spoken about this in detail. In order to avoid abuse, the legislator also thought that if a person converts to IFRS on the basis of current plans, he would not be able to return five years after that, so that he would not be able to abuse the changes. With regard to the future application of the proposal, stakeholders will have to take into account whether or not their business is first employed or which exemptions or exceptions they intend to make in drawing up the report. For example, if a foreign parent acquired her daughter before she first prepared her IFRS-based consolidated annual accounts, then she could use it on the basis of her individual accounts, of course with certain modifications. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments are not just an accounting change, it is a very important project that affects the top managers, through a change in strategic planning and the HR area, as the category on which the interest system is based may change. In addition, IT systems should be prepared for switching, and in case of bank loans, it is worth clarifying in advance the new interpretation of previous contractual terms, due to the changed accounting categories. It is worth keeping these in mind for everyone before making a decision on the transition or when considering the preparation time due to the mandatory transition. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-21-141	Overall, I think that the bill improves domestic accounting legislation and because we join European standards, it increases Hungary's competitiveness. I therefore ask that these aspects be considered in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-21-142	Thank you very much. Mr László Szakács, lead speaker for the group of the MSZP. Here. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I will be disruptive, since I must say that the unification of the goals that we want to achieve at any level that the European Union expects, and the transparency of Hungarian businesses, the Hungarian financial system in all things... - I think we should do this. Of course, if we have a few concerns, I think we should tell them. [[18.50]] I would not speak in more detail than the Secretary of State, nor could I, and as my fellow Member Manninger has said, what rules will be in the coming period, we believe that this will in any case help the kind of pride, the kind of transparency that I think should have been pursued a little sooner, but if it is the time now, now is the time. The fact that, in relation to organisations participating in the economy as a part of a financial intermediary system with special management, we remove it from the rules of government regulation or regulation with special effect, and put this into the legislative powers of the Hungarian National Bank, obviously - I am already concerned - we have a problem with this that the professionalism, current management of the Hungarian National Bank is considered to be opinionary in a number of ways. We do not necessarily trust him, but once he is there, we hope that he will, for example, perform supervision of the financial services sector or supervision of the financial intermediary sector more effectively than in the last two years, when he will establish prudential requirements for non-performing exposures, restructuring claims, counterparty ratings, collateral assessment. We're hoping there won't be any black spots, let's just say, ugly fiascoes like what happened last year's inspection or this year's brokerage collapse. So here we believe that this requirement of prudence will in any way help in the coming period. What we are still saying as a concern - and obviously this does not mean that we do not support or support this proposal - is that it will certainly not favour Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in the first years. I do not know whether any incentive scheme or incentive scheme through which their costs can otherwise be reduced, their costs for this training, their costs for the changeover can be reduced or reimbursed to them. I believe that the time available will be sufficient until their mandatory introduction, which is what the government should think about. The only thing we ask of the Secretary of State is that this kind of concern in his mind is that Hungarian SMEs are not necessarily equipped with such a very, very uniform reporting system. We see that this will not be a problem for larger, more capitalised companies, as many have said before me. Probably a larger percentage of them report this today, not to mention that their parent company requires them to do the same. So the kind of business and work culture they already claim to be their own, which will soon be mandatory for Hungarian SMEs as well. Please count on the cost and time needed for this transition, which will obviously take valuable resources and labour away from productive work.
u2015-10-21-143	I have yet to mention one more thing: I do not know if there was an accident who was left behind or not, that, when amending the Law on the Chamber of Auditors, the author did not state whether the consultation with the Chamber had been carried out or not, and therefore did not state their views. I ask the Secretary of State that, if that was the case, you complete the statement of reasons and reassure me that you have agreed with the Chamber. Thank you very much for your attention. [[No one's reporting.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? I'm gonna say no.
u2015-10-21-144	As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Mr. Secretary of State, if you wish to respond. Here you go. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have even easier things to do here than the previous tax procedure package, since a total of one pro-government and one opposition Member gave their opinion, which I thank you for. To what Mr László Szakács said, which he is concerned about, I believe that the concern of the MNB's right to establish a regulation is more political than professional. We have to accept that as an opinion. We see it differently, we think it differently, and we regulate it differently than you can see. Worrying about Hungarian SMEs, I think it is legitimate that for those SMEs who are affected by this rule, it is certain that if they are not prepared in knowledge or, let us say, in IT, this will cost them, but the bill itself sets a limit, i.e. the audit and revenue threshold, where businesses can and must make use of this option. As regards the consultation concern regarding the Chamber of Auditors, I can close it here, because, of course, there have been multiple professional discussions with the Chamber of Auditors, and with their professional approval this bill came to Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-10-21-145	Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you all for your understanding attitude, and I ask you to support the bill. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday.
u2015-10-21-146	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Sallai R. Benedek applied for a speech entitled 'Back to the Future'. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It certainly seems disrespectful to mention that an American cult film, Back to the Future, has a memorial day, in which, on October 26, 1985, at 1:15 p.m., the star of the film, Marty McFly, starts and arrives in the future today. Let me remind you that on October 26, 1985, the President of the Presidential Council in Hungary was Pál Losonczi, who performed the task and took part in the management of the country, with his partner György Lázár, a Hungarian politician who was the President of the Council of Ministers of the Hungarian People's Republic. On the same day, János Kádár performed the tasks as a Hungarian Communist politician in the post of Minister of Interior in Hungary, and so the day began. Meanwhile, in the Eastern bloc, Bulgaria's head of government was Todor Zsivkov, Czechoslovakia's Gustáv Husák, and in Poland, a Head of State named Jaruzelski. In the German Democratic Republic, Erich Honecker was the head of state as the leader of the Communist Party, and the same posts were held alone in Romania by Nikolae Ceauşescu. The first secretary of the Soviet Communist Party in 85 was Gorbachev on that day. In Chile, General Pinochet's reign was raging, and in North Korea Kim Ir Sen was in charge, while in the United States Ronald Reagan was president. It is obviously interesting to recall that on this day when Marty McFly started, Britain's Prime Minister was named Margaret Thatcher, and Germany's chancellor was Helmut Kohl. [[19.00]] In the film, he arrived today, and this American film visualized what the future will be like when cars travel with a fusion power station and fly around their airfields in a completely futuristic future. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that long ago, the Hungarian Parliament did not mention this, that today's news, which we have reached, exceeds what Marty McFly would have experienced if he had arrived in Hungary. In the recent days, Battony will be handing over its plans to the country's largest geothermal power plant, which will provide the region with virtually a full thermal power plant. Hungary has only taken more steps in the area of solar efficiency in the last six months, and could provide more than 30% of the country's energy supply by 2050, not only in terms of fusion power plants, but also in terms of solar power. In wind energy, Hungary has developed again, but Romania is slowly increasing its production from zero percent to 23 percent with wind power parks in Dobruja, and it is creating the future of the green energy that Marty McFly could only dream of, since his vehicle started with uranium at that time. In the same way, I would like to mention as an interesting fact that, in consultation with several energy experts today, it is apparent that there are many other power plant systems that could ensure our energy supply, but there is no way to exchange ideas about this, since Hungary is currently a XX. He's trying to supply these energy needs with a Paks development with mid-century technology. It is equally interesting to say that in 1985 the country did not know what it was facing with regard to the construction of the hydroelectric power plant in Bős-Nagymaros, and it did not know the damage it had caused to Hungary. Today, well after the Hague decision, the Fidesz administration, for basically some refugee flood support, wants to give this water to Slovakia, and from the 40 percent water yield required by the Hague decision, it would be satisfied with only one 20%. These efforts are discussed in a relatively closed framework by the government, and we do not see very much how the system that we saw in 1985 will be restored on Mineralra and all other island settlements. The past period and the time that has passed since then have greatly exceeded the imagination of the filmmakers at the time, but it is still worse in a number of things than it was in 85, and the question is how Hungarian legislation, the Hungarian Parliament, knows all the knowledge that we have acquired in the past period, and use it to make people's lives better.
u2015-10-21-147	I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the future. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for this past and future journey and a beautiful chronological summary. Dear Parliament, With this fine end, we have reached the end of today's agenda speeches. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. [[Meeting ended at 7:02 p.m.]]
