u2015-12-07-0	Good afternoon, fellow Members. I very much welcome all of you and welcome all of you who will follow our work today through the means of communication. The 27th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Moring József and Adam Mirkóczki will be in charge of the meeting to help me. Today we will start our work with speeches before the agenda, then we will answer questions from noon to 2:30, then we will have an hour of immediate questions and answers from 1:30 to 3 and we will end the day with speeches after our usual agenda. Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, from the Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title "University of Applied Sciences" by Károly Eszterházy. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-1	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. In my speech before the agenda, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, I wish to tell you about the state of play of higher education. Dear Parliament, There are large systems in the state's life, strategic areas that need to be updated from time to time and adapted to the challenges of the age. Such areas include health care or education systems. There was no question that higher education in Hungary needed to be transformed. It's almost always been on the agenda, but everyone's been throwing them like hot potatoes, and it's a big and important task, because the fact that something goes right or wrong comes out in years, and it's often too late. This is why it has been an important step forward that the government has taken responsibility for this, even for minor professional conflicts and difficulties; and has taken decisions, precisely for the purpose already mentioned many times, because of the new value saving in modern form. Dear Parliament, This is the title of the new strategy of the government, which offers significant opportunities for Hungary. According to the material, the quality of Hungarian higher education must be increased, and competition must be created within the higher education system. Students must be given competitive knowledge at home and international level, and this requires the creation of a set of conditions, of course, so that it can be adapted to labour market and social expectations. Dear Parliament, In this spirit, we also had to review the Heves County possibilities. With the strategic goals set, we proposed the merger of the two higher education institutions in Heves County, Róbert Károly Györösi and Eszterházy Károly College in Eger. This, of course, as it usually does in every change, caused a great storm of vanity, but today, I think everyone has seen that the union of the two institutions is the right way, and this road can lead to the creation of a strong knowledge center in Eger, in the city where the medical and legal faculty started its first operation in the country; in the city where Károly Eszterházy built a lyceum in 1762 for the purpose of operating a university in the city. Dear Parliament, The citadels of professionalism and not the ivory towers of barren knowledge should be universities and colleges. I also expressed this regarding the further development of the college as early as May this year and at the 242nd opening ceremony of the Eszterházy Károly College in September. That is why we launched a public action called the Eszterházy petition in Heves County, so that local citizens could have the opportunity to support their personal creed, their signature, and be part of the university. I am pleased to report that the Eszterházy petition has been signed by more than 12,000 people, supporting the progress of the case. Dear Parliament, From the summer of 2016 a university of applied sciences will be established in Eger thanks to your decision. Thank you to all those who voted in favour of this in Parliament. The university development, the new concept of higher education and the portfolio it strengthens, the plan to merge two county colleges, the regional perspectives practically create the cohesion of the region, not its division. The strength of character, the openness of mind serve each other and creates new opportunities. This is the joint success of Eger, Gyöngyös, Sárospatak and Jászberény. Dear Parliament, Being a university is not merely an administrative decision, but an intellectual step forward, where the knowledge base can rise by finding each other and connecting arms, and the maturity of the spirit can rise to a new level. The intellectual force is needed to ensure that there are as few obstacles as possible to the enrichment of human scale and human ability and that it cannot be broken. The Eger intellectual training with its environment, tradition, intellectual strength can rise and march against this world, which is difficult to admit and out of direction. This also means that the Eger mission consciousness should not be trapped in the net of province, but should turn its eye to universal human challenges. The hundreds of years of history of Heves county higher education, the results of the present, the becoming of public life, the new concept of higher education, the portfolio strengthened by the merger of colleges, the standing of local people, the Eszterházy petition created the realistic possibility that today we can talk about the possibility that the university of sciences used by Eger headquarters could work. Thanks to Károly Eszterházy, the college staff, the city of Eger, the higher education government and all the Members of Parliament who supported this with their vote. Thank you for that. Let's be proud of Eger. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to the statement before the agenda will be given by Secretary-General Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that it is the success of a community that the Member has been able to report here, and let us say that thank you to the Member, that he has been there for every step of the process, he has organised and shaped this process himself. The University of Eger! This was the first slogan, and with the Eszterházy petition, the Egerians were able to show that it has a very broad social support, it is important for everyone to have a university, a college, any institution in the local environment, a thousand threads of roots attached to it. This is exactly what he has been able to prove with this petition that the Heves County, the Egerians, wanted this change, which has happened and is happening next year, as the Károly Róbert College in Gyöngyös, the Eszterházy Károly College in Eger, and the Jászberény Faculty of Applied Humanities and Pedagogics of St. Stephen's University will now run under the name of Eszterházy Károly University of Applied Sciences from next year onwards. [[11.10]] This was an entire year-long process, until we accepted the amendment of the law, since the start of the transformation can be dated by spring of this year. The institutional leaders, relevant social actors, the processing of impact assessments, were evaluated during spring and summer, and the Minister made his decision on this in September. A preparatory committee will be set up to continue integration in practice. Members of this have already been appointed by Minister Zoltán Balog. So the inaugural session will follow, and this preparatory committee will be able to work on your detailed schedule. The amendment of the law itself awaits the announcement, which the Parliament has already accepted. This means that a different institution with a more prominent profile will be implemented. Besides, the aim of the strategy is to ensure that institutions with a precisely differentiated profile and different profiles are in Hungary. The university of applied sciences itself is a professional training institution which provides the most appropriate training for local, county and local economic and social needs; it focuses on the exploitation of knowledge to provide skills that can be applied there, in the environment, around the university of applied sciences, and therefore it is necessary to launch dual training at all universities of applied sciences, including here at Eszterházy Károly University. It is important to mention, since we have already talked about dual training, that one of the successes of the implementation of the higher education strategy is that higher education institutions have now concluded a cooperation agreement with more than 300 companies in order to ensure that those who attend these universities in dual training mode can already practice in parallel with 300 companies, 300 companies, what they study in theoretical terms at university or other higher education institutions. It also proves the operation of the strategy and the effectiveness of the measures, that compared to the state of September 2014, when the debt of universities and colleges was HUF 20.5 billion, this decreased to HUF 7.6 billion by the end of October this year - from 20.5 to 7.6. This shows that the Chancellery system worked well, as this reduction in debt is clearly due to the Chancellors' help. Since the appointment of Chancellors and apparently the burden of managing state wealth and community wealth has been removed from the administration of universities, the Chancellor and the Rector have been working harmoniously in the overwhelming majority of cases. The Rectors dealt with the organisation of science within their autonomy, this part of university life, while the Chancellors worked well, as the negative side of state wealth, the passive, debt decreased. Not only has the fact that PPP schemes are gradually being replaced, but the cash flow of universities and its reserve has tripled. This is how it has been achieved, showing that in higher education there has really been a change in degrees, that the government is paying extra support in the coming years, and that a 15+5+5 per cent wage increase is expected - not to be expected, but will be - in higher education, especially for young educators, because one of the greatest contributors is the absorption effect in the other direction. We want to keep them on the field and value their work, but for everyone who works in higher education, there will be a wage increase in the coming years, to a total of 27 percent. This shows that Hungarian reforms work; the transformation of higher education, economic reforms have brought results, wage increases, among other things, and the reduction of debt in higher education. And I think it is very important to say, even in 3 seconds, that with Community training centres for higher education, the possibility of carrying out higher education education can be reached in cities, county seats, and significant settlements where there was no college or university before, first to Kisvárda. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-07-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Speaking before the agenda from the KDNP Group, Mr Mátyás Firtl asked for a speech with the title "Emerging Rural Development in the Fertő-szág" on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, a bicycle route in the Fertő region has been transferred to complete the Hungarian section of the cycling road network around Lake Fertő. At the first stage, the Hungarian government provided HUF 450 million for the development of the cycling route network around Lake Fertő, with a second rate of HUF 805 million of EU funds. The creation of the circular cycling of Lake Fertő is of great importance. Like Lake Balaton, the Lake Fertő is now in possession of a roundabout, divided by the border since 1920, but geologically, historically uniform landscapes, natural, landscape, architecture and settlements are unique; not only because my generation could not actually go down to Lake Fertő, and we have lived it, it is also epochal for young people today, and I declare this because it is stressful that it envisages a new opportunity for development in the region. These are untapped opportunities based on water and ecotourism, which can be linked to the development of our so far epochal, large-scale, cultural, artistic and intellectual values in the region, which are marked by the Eszterháza Center, such as the values of wildlife, the natural environment, the Fertő landscape, but the region as a whole. As stressed by Minister of Agriculture Sándor Fazekas at the time of the transfer, there was literally rural development. The current 1.3 billion-dollar development has an economical, tourism-enhancing effect; it also works as an agricultural road; it helps wine-tourism as a wine road; it offers as a new tourist attraction the most beautiful panorama of the world heritage landscape, and it also serves road safety. The affected settlements of the Fertő landscape: Balf, Fertőboz, Fertőshomok, Fertőrákos, Fertőszéplak, Hegykő, Coldness and Sarrod, which, for example, have further developmental prospects related to tourism, but this is also of great importance for Sopron. On behalf of all the municipalities concerned, I would also like to thank the Hungarian Government for its initial support for enabling, launching and giving impetus to development. In addition, the Prime Minister of Hungary paid special attention to the Hungarian-side cycling area of the Fertő coast. The development that creates green access to the countryside is age-old, because its future significance goes far beyond itself in the cross-cutting development line of localities. It is an example that the reconstruction of the reeds of Lake Fertő and the water supply channels of the lake bed was successfully completed in October. Together, the development marks all the still unused opportunities offered by the Fertő landscape and the natural features, surroundings and values of Lake Fertő as unique sights by the continental, Mediterranean and Atlantic climate effects at the crossroads of the flora and fauna in the lake region at the foot of the Alps, which is a unique habitat of rare plant and animal species. This represents additional opportunities for the region: the potential of water and ecotourism is still untapped today. In connection with the development and tourist offer in the area so far, this can only give a character that is characteristic of this area, which can be the exclusive offer in the future. [[11.20]] As a Member of Parliament in the region, thanks to the government's support so far, I still believe it is important that developments that increase the region continue. It's in everyone's best interest. Natural environment and nature protection, local businesses, economic recovery, plantings, tourism recovery are both serving the growth of local residents and the country and the public good. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The answer to the question before the agenda is from Mr János Fónagy State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, It's nice to see you back on the presidential bench. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Cycling as an alternative to motorised transport, an economical and environmentally friendly way of urban change, is gaining ground both in transport and in tourism and sport, and the government therefore prioritises this efficient means of transport. The aim of the development of roads is to ensure that the safe conditions for cycling are met, so far and in the future. In the period 2010-2015, a total of nearly nine hundred kilometers of cycling facilities, i.e. bicycle trails, bicycle tracks, and a designated agricultural route for cycling, were implemented across the country, from approximately HUF 34 billion gross. Among the interventions in the area of Sopron in recent years, I would like to highlight the development of the existing Hungarian section of the cycling route along Lake Fertő, which has recently been upgraded with the government's support of HUF 450 million from domestic and HUF 804 million from EU sources, with appropriate signs - traffic and guidance boards - on more than 20 kilometres. The direct aim of the project is to complete the Hungarian section of the cycling road bypassing Lake Fertő and to renovate the existing sections. The development of the cycling network around Lake Fertő is the development of missing elements of the public bicycle network and the modernisation of existing facilities. As part of the project, a new trail between Balf and Fertőrákos was created between the national road, between the vineyards, partly with the establishment of a new bicycle route, partly with the construction of a new mixed bicycle route and agricultural road, and partly with the renovation of the existing road. In addition, the existing bicycle traffic facility has been modernised in the interior of Fertőd and other bicycle traffic facilities have been designated in the interior of Sarrod, Fertőd, Fertőszéplak, Hegykő, Fertős sands, Cold and Fertőrákos. As a result of the developments, more than nine kilometres of new bicycle routes were established, the existing bicycle traffic facility was upgraded for four and a half kilometers and other bicycle traffic facilities were designated for eight and a half kilometers. Ladies and gentlemen, As regards future developments, in the 2014-2020 budgetary period, bicycle development is essentially supported by territorial and local development, economic development and innovation, competitive Central Hungary operational programme and European territorial cooperation programmes. According to our calculations and plans, by the end of the cycle about 1000-1500 kilometers of modern cycling facilities can be completed. We encourage local authorities to make use of the opportunities available for this purpose. Dear Parliament, Built facilities constitute significant road assets, the continuous preservation of which is a specific burden much less than the possibility of rebuilding a road in a degraded state, so we are reviewing and rethinking the current system of operation and maintenance of bicycle roads on the basis of experience. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group of the LMP, entitled Autumn Speech in Washington, asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2015-12-07-9	Thank you for the floor, and I am pleased that Mr President is once again in full power to lead the meeting on the bench. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to briefly remember that today, on 7 December, 125 years ago, the Social Democratic Party of Hungary was formed as the successor of the General Labour Party in Budapest. Dear Parliament, The chairman of the Parliament Foreign Affairs Committee has made rather steep statements in Washington last week. I would like to suggest that Zsolt Németh's statements may also be issued for national consultation, and let us look at how the Fidesz adherents feel about the words of the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I understand that Zsolt Németh's nervous state is now suffering from the very obvious failure of opening up to the east, and that, once they have moved from valued foreign policy to the foreign policy of interest, the question now is whether Hungary has foreign policy at all. But let's see what statements Zsolt Németh made in Washington. On the one hand, Hungary promised to double its defence expenditure in the coming years. The only thing I would add to this is that since 2010 the operating maintenance costs have been 250 billion forints. The EU R &amp; D average is 2 percent, while Hungary is at the same time 1.4 percent modest. But let's keep looking. Zsolt Németh advised the United States of America to take more action; he lacked the courage of the Americans to take bold action; American engagement is essential to overcome the already unstable situations. Dear Parliament, Let's see the facts. The fact that there is such a situation at Europe's gates today is a closely linked reason why the United States has not lacked courage in the last 15 years and has done exactly enough action to make the situation at the edge of Europe unstable. Dear Parliament, In 2003 Hungary, as a henchman, offered to the United States and Great Britain to break international law with their feet. The fact that today the so-called filter states have collapsed on the edge of Europe is largely to blame for the foreign policy that the United States and NATO have been doing in recent years. We should stop double-talking. The government calls for the support of the people to stop the immigration wave, puts up a fence, and for this reason the Hungarian Prime Minister is celebrating himself, while the pro-government president of the Hungarian Foreign Affairs Committee is encouraging the United States of America to have more intervention and more aggressive action on the edge of Europe, which causes precisely these global crises. But Zsolt Németh said something else. He said with regard to the U.S.-European Trade Agreement under negotiation, TTIP, that this trade agreement is of geopolitical importance - otherwise there is no debate between us but we understand it differently - and that there is only one thing to do about the agreement: put on the mosquito net. Zsolt Németh has said this witty metaphor before. All I can tell you is that it's a little bit like trying to defend itself against fighter planes with mosquito nets. Let's be clear. With this trade agreement Hungary, the edge of Europe and the countries of Eastern and Southern Europe can only lose.Hungarian farmers will still be net losers of this gamble, according to Századvég's study. Indeed, this convention is of geopolitical importance; if this convention is concluded, it becomes absolutely clear that global large companies have taken over the world's democratic governments. If this agreement is concluded, it is completely unnecessary to hold any climate summit, as climate protection will also be decided by large companies. [[11.30]] If this convention is concluded, it is no wonder that there will be more and more countries on the edge of Europe, in Asia and in Africa where the state machine is collapsing, where people will flee because of the lack of resources. Today, while the Hungarian government is celebrating its supporters how bravely it is to oppose the immigration wave and the European Union's quota proposals, it is itself a source of the wave that is at the gates of Europe today. Hungarian foreign policy itself encourages global action, which, by the way, is the cause of these global crises. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-07-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The Secretary of State László Szabó responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Chief of Staff, It's a bit of a tabloid, although some of the facts you've told us are indeed, some of the facts we agree with; the conclusions you've drawn, I feel, are too far-reaching, at least to my liking. I do not want to express your foreign policy opinion in particular; I feel that what Hungary's foreign policy has achieved over the last five years, including the foreign economy, must be proud of it. Hungary's position has been refined in many ways, but we cannot reject the fact that Hungary has been a very important partner of the USA, and this role is very important for the Hungarian economy and for the workers. If you look at the fact that since 2010 the US has come up from 14th to 10th in the foreign trade market, the US has created a 3.5 percent increase of its 2 percent share, 90 thousand jobs, and 9 billion dollars in Hungary, this shows that trust is in our direction. Of course, trust cannot be unconditional, I understand and feel the problems that you have mentioned about TTIP, the Free Trade Agreement, which are really important. However, it should be noted that the basic conditionality of TTIP is not yet established, so we really need to draw attention to everything that can be negative for the Hungarian people in the negotiations. We must protect GMOs, we must protect sensitive sectors, and the investment protection agreement must be such that it does not harm Hungarian interests. At the same time, it cannot be overlooked that Hungary is also the US's most important trading partner outside the European Union, and the EU's largest trading partner is the US. In political directions, there are many levels of agreement and disagreement. I feel that what the Hungarian government represents with the American relation is in line with the present moment. On the Pacific Partnership, I would like to say that this partnership is coming to a very serious conclusion. Hungary will suffer a competitive disadvantage if TTIP is not created soon thereafter. But I would like to emphasise once again that the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people do not aim to reach an agreement at all costs. The only way to agree is if this agreement is mutually beneficial for all parties, and we are taking the right time to do so. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr József Tóbias asked for the opportunity to speak before the agenda with a title on current matters from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2015-12-07-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Today Hungary is facing a long-awaited health crisis. Unreasonably, many people die of cardiovascular diseases, Hungary is in a terrible place in European comparison. There is also a particularly high rate of cancer and mortality. We are failing in prevention, screening, waiting lists are increasing, and there are huge differences in the quality of treatment in some hospitals. A social researcher known in Hungary was ill in Borsod County, and he was brought up to Budapest by an ambulance, because if he had stayed there, he might not have left the hospital on his own feet. He wrote it recently, not so long ago, about the differences in health care in Hungary, about the chances he has of treating his illness compared to where he is born and where he lives. But on Wednesday, news came out, Honourable House: three quarters of the anesthetic doctors working at the St. Imre University Hospital in Budapest resigned, supposedly only half as many as they were needed before the termination, while there is a shortage of doctors throughout Europe, and many believe that in the institution that is the best public hospital in Budapest, the stand-up workers felt that there were no adequate financial and means to work safely. Meanwhile, in the area of health, the current government is busy choosing a new leader after a year in the person of Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, because the previous one has not successfully implemented the reforms. Maybe they'll start again. He announced, Mr Secretary of State, which he had already said four years ago, that health care should be financed not in accordance with the needs of the population, but in line with the needs of the care system. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári's intervention.]] Well, that's exactly what you said, Mr. Secretary of State, but I would like to quote you, Mr. Secretary of State Retvári, that you said that, and it follows that there is a small problem. Four years have passed, and today society, the problem of the population, is the same as the problem of the health care institution. One would like to heal, but there is no proper means for it, and the other would like to be cured, but right now, if you don't take the bandage or the medicine, you don't have a chance to heal. The Secretary of State also said that today health institutions operate at European level. Well, unfortunately, the vast majority of Hungarian society does not agree with this today. Every day, the tragedy of the quality of domestic health care is experienced by citizens, both patients and healers know that the whole structure is creaking. Ten county hospitals are missing from Hungarian health care, hospital departments run out of pharmaceutical frames by the middle of the month, our doctors and nurses work alongside an outdated and incomplete instrument park, while patients often have to suffer more than unworthy conditions in hospitals. Meanwhile, the maintenance of the system becomes unmanageable because our doctors trained for a lot of money are emigrating. If the government had decided today to increase the number of medical education in universities, this expansion would not be due until nearly a decade, and, in addition to today's salaries, it is clear, in this House, that healthcare workers' salaries are not measured at a competitive European average. According to György Velkey, president of the Hungarian Hospital Association, confidence building begins with a wage increase. It is very important to add this lubricant to the system to encourage workers to cooperate. Without a raise, not only can reform be carried out, but there will be no cure in Hungary. What else does it take, fellow Members, to acknowledge that in Hungary, at least 50 percent of the public sector needs a net wage increase, a salary increase, so as not to be outdated and emigrated in Hungary, and the state can provide a high-quality service? I would like to point out that it is difficult for the state to terminate its service relationship with public servants at the moment, because according to your law, public servants will not receive their salaries in health care and education this month, and their salary in January is hopeless. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I demand from the government that the old system be restored until they can decide how to operate the public sector's salaries. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2015-12-07-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The secretary of state, Bence Rétvári, responds to what he has said. Here you go.
u2015-12-07-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, You said in the middle of your speech that, according to a study quoted by you in 20 years, differences in medical care have increased, and if someone was born in the wrong place, they received worse care; then, at the end of your speech, you demanded that the old system be restored. We can't really appreciate this... [[József Tobias: The pay! Give the people what they deserve. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[11.40]] Honourable Congressman, In the old system, you took away the 13th month's salary, since it's a salary from the medical staff, and instead you bought hospital safes, and instead you wanted to make a visitation fee. These old system elements, such as the visit fee, the monthly wage reduction, we do not want to escape, of course. In the last five years, the Hungarian economy has been on a growing path since 2013 due to the functioning of the Hungarian reforms, so since 2012-2013 it has been able to increase the wages of healthcare workers by an average of 27 percent, thus giving more than HUF 70 billion in additional wages to healthcare workers. That it is necessary to continue this, everyone thinks so, Congressman. But when it was here in Parliament, let us say, the proposal for a potato tax, which increased the salary of health workers from an extra tax on unhealthy foods, should have been voted by the MSZP. Because he stands up here and says that more money will be given to the people working in the health care sector, with which all reasonable people agree in Hungary; but when we create the cover for this, and not only in the Finance Act, but also in the Neta Law about chips tax, he should have voted for them by the Hungarian Socialist Party, or he should have voted off the government's proposal to take away the 13th month's wage, and then he would speak with credibility on these issues. Or you talk about cardiovascular diseases, but you keep flogging the government for the introduction of everyday physical education. They were opposed to a large part of governance's tobacco control measures, all of which [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Intercoms at the same place: Oh! Trafies? Don't be silly. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is precisely the problem of prevention. As we said, health care focuses on screening and basic care. But when these legislative proposals come in, you will vote against this, and when it comes to the mensa reform, they also speak not in the voice of support, but they say that older unhealthy foods will again be given to children and those in the social institution. When you have to do something about it, the MSZP says exactly the opposite of what you're saying here. Or the OECD report, which compares the health policy of the socialist period and the Fidesz-KDNP administration. If you look at how the resources have changed, there is a big minus sign in the socialist period, a big plus sign in the Fidesz-KDNP period. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. Nándor Gúr: You can't be serious!]] You have withdrawn resources from health care according to the OECD and increased during the Fidesz-KDNP period. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] You can laugh about it, you can spread your hands, but the government doesn't say that, not a Hungarian body, but the OECD says that, at the time of your governance, there was a 2.3 percent reduction in health resources and growth in our period. [[Nándor Gúr: Take out another card, Bence.]] In Chipsado, what we gave to health care in addition to in wages, they already appear here, I say, not in Hungarian, but in international comparison. Congressman, you were talking about increasing waiting lists. Where and what numbers are you talking about? [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He couldn't put a number pair behind him. When we introduced the standard register on the waiting list you introduced, 70,000 people were on it today, 35,000. [[Lajos Korózs: Half of them are dead, but they're not on it!]] Today's 35,000! Where is it, where are your numbers that you said would increase the waiting list? You can't give me a number to back that up. [[Nándor Gúr: We are not talking about numbers, we are talking about people! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Or when you spoke of rescue, honourable Member, you forgot to buy an ambulance in your last two years when you were on the wheel. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right! That's right!]] That's what this government had to replace, which is why we had to get an extra 300 ambulances, and we also bought them all for the 22 new rescue stations. Look at how many ambulances you bought in the last two years of your government. You will be able to count on one hand, honourable Member, how much the socialist governments have done to this end. It's the wages of St. Imre's Hospital. You know, honourable Member, that Szent Imre Hospital is a particularly good institution, and the conditions here are better than the Hungarian average, and therefore an anesthetist to whom you have referred just now earns about as much as the health secretary. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: This is not what they said!]] The average wage in this department for 19 doctors is 980 640 HUF. When a doctor at St. Imre's Hospital worked overtime, he could make more money than the Prime Minister. [[Zoltán Grimlock: But he'd rather sleep than the Prime Minister! Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Incredible witty!]] This is not a general situation in Hungary. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] This is the high position of St. Imre Hospital, a salary of over HUF 1 million has been made in one, two, three, four, five, six cases. I would like to stress that this cannot be projected, only when you talk about wages being too low at St. Imre's Hospital, and therefore leave St. Imre's Hospital for the workers, compare the fact that there are state leaders' salaries for doctors at St. Imre's Hospital. He forgot, of course, to say the HUF 500 billion development and much more. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] By voting in favour of the residency programme, you would have done more for Hungarian health than you did today's speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the Jobbik Group, the country must be protected from political crime, Mr President Novak has applied for a speech before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-12-07-17	Mr President, I'm glad you're back and that you said that the country should be protected from political crime. Indeed, Mr President, it is necessary to protect the country not only from illegal immigration, but also from government corruption which has already caused invaluable damage to the national economy. We may agree on that, but if you don't, put your hands up, let the person who dares to put their hands on fire for Andy Vajna or Ripper Lawrence. I don't see a candidate. I think we can agree that these businesses, to put it mildly, are not even carried out in a legitimate way, although we see the government's intention, it wants to legitimise the forms of political crime that have taken place so far. We have seen many examples. The latest one, which was pushed through here in one day at the Parliament at the beginning of last week, with which the opportunity to initiate the acquisition of wealth, more commonly known as propertyisation investigations, was removed, and in fact, during public procurement, close relatives of public-law dignitaries were given the opportunity to participate in public procurement procedures, even without publication of a notice. This is what we consider unacceptable. Instead, we encourage you to act, not to vote off our proposals unread, but, as we have demonstrated our constructivity in protecting the country, I am thinking of illegal immigration when Jobbik has provided the necessary majority for the two-thirds of the laws, because two thirds of the current government are no longer present, we are asking you to do so; be partners, regardless of personalities, and rather in our legislative proposals that would change the current situation, regardless of party affiliation. Allow me to present the dozen of our proposals only in headlines, as Jobbik has set a good example in the case of banning political job accumulation, which was a legal form of political crime, and I think they could take a full-time salary from several places. He still has a few loopholes, let's think about the Secretary of State for Defence, who, let's just say, has a second, third, and even a quarter, fifth position in the state sphere, so there's still plenty to do. The abolition of immunity is also an area that only the Jobbik representatives have undertaken to voluntarily waive their immunity, and in any case we vote to suspend it regardless of party affiliation or of any sympathy. I think that if you are serious about what has been described in the Fundamental Law at the level of fine words, of course, that everyone is equal before the law, then it is time to abolish immunity, because it is not only against condemnation, unfortunately it is also against investigation, which is why János Zuschlag said that his higher leaders could not follow him to prison, nor could they even go into the spotlight, because it was impossible to investigate for politicians with immunity. We would also like the family's property statements, including children's property declarations, to be made public, since in many cases we have seen, in the case of János Lázár himself, that he hid tens of millions of property in the name of a minor child. Some things have been leaked, but they are currently in the Parliament's safes to keep the family's property declarations, which were also made public only by Jobbik's representatives, at least we were able to disclose ourselves on Jobbik's website. I would also like to make an automatic assessment of wealth growth and wealth, if it cannot be initiated because of this shameful amendment of the law last week, then it should be automatic, every four years for all politicians. Our legislative proposal to this effect was submitted to Parliament today. Then it might turn out that what the fee doesn't cover is wealth, what the source is, because we've seen the foreign minister dependent on his parents with such a fabulous and amazing creative explanation that Gábor Simon could have envied so much to see where he had the amazing surplus that he could find in the Austrian bank accounts. I think, while we are at Gábor Simon, let us mention that any other nationality of Members should finally be made public, so that we can see clearly what will lead to the fact that, in serving foreign interests, for example, they will make the Hungarian land sellable. But in many other cases, I think it would be justified to see that if someone has citizenship and passport in an African banana republic, then it is clear that he has built an escape route and has something to hide. I think that this could also help to curb corruption, as is usually the release of encryptions, the accountability of communist leaders, as they are unfortunately indebted to and banned from public life. I mean, if the former KISZ KB Secretary were to ban Ference Gyurcsány from public life, I think that would also result in the purity of public life. In addition, we would like to eliminate the limitation of economic crimes committed by politicians, and to automatically double the penalty for politicians, so that we can finally have a sufficiently deterrent effect in reducing political crime. [[11.50]] In addition, the possibility of total confiscation must be created, as it is unacceptable what has already been leaked that Gábor Simon is expected to leave free with HUF 100 million. Only personal income tax, medical contributions from the money we found, and with a simple explanation, you're free to go. In addition, the institution of recall should also be considered, since, as slowly as justice works, even if we want a double penalty, we need to create the callback of politicians. I hope that, in the future, the Jobbik will no longer be the only one proposing this. Thank you for your support. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-07-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I thought, when he put the subject of corruption on the agenda, that KáGéBéla - Béla Kovács - would like to make an announcement here, within the walls of this House, and announce to the House, the Hungarian public what Jobbik has to do with Béla Kovács, what his contacts are, how he supported Jobbik. I think that's what everyone wants to know, and if it's Jobbik. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] You want to be credible about corruption, that is the question to be answered, Congressman. After all, on 4 December, the Central Investigator's Attorney General interviewed Béla Kovács, a Member of the European Parliament of Jobbik, who, by the way, did not give up his immunity, I'm just saying, Congressman [[György Sziâlágyi: You, legal genius! Dóra Dúró: 'Cause I can't!]] , based on a well-founded suspicion of espionage against the institutions of the European Union. If the court pronounces the congressman guilty, he may be sentenced from two to eight years for his crime. Tell us, honourable Member, about Europe's biggest political corruption scandal, in which Jobbik's MEP Béla Kovács, has been accused of an unprecedentedly serious crime. The Hungarian people, but also the voters of Jobbik, would like to have an answer about the interests of President Gábor Vona to cover Béla Kovács to this day, despite the fact that the leader of the group, Mr President, has already admitted in an interview that, I quote, he would not put his hand on fire for Béla Kovács. The Jobbik himself doesn't know what's going on inside his party. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Let's hear the story about the corruption case of Béla Kovács, Béla KáGébé. And if you have already continued with a list of what you would do to prevent corruption, I would like to draw attention to the fact that you did not vote in November 2010 for the law that led to the establishment of the National Defence Service, which started its operation on 1 January 2011. The most important task of the National Defence Service is to carry out internal crime prevention, crime detection, anti-corruption activities, and in the last five years it has been effectively engaged in this activity, which you have not supported. Why didn't you support him, Congressman? Why didn't they support him? Was the fight against corruption not important to you then? Honourable Congressman, You are not telling the truth, you do not really want to oppose corruption if you do not vote in favour of these important legislative proposals. Honourable Congressman, By the way, I would like to tell you and this House, the public of this country, that the government has declared zero tolerance to corruption. Our aim is to make Hungary one of the least corrupted countries, so we must do a great deal to this end, and I ask that you, too - and I ask all parliamentary parties here in Parliament - do everything, cooperate with the Government in Parliament in order to bring these laws into being and that the bodies specialising in this task will be able to implement them as much as possible. After all, this is indeed a goal for which we have a great deal to do. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government has drafted a number of measures in the framework of the national anti-corruption strategy. We hope that these measures will lead to results and that corruption in Hungary will be reduced. Our goal is, once again, to announce zero tolerance, to make Hungary one of the least corrupted countries. In order to do this, we need you to be able to act crediblely in this matter, which we would also like to see you comment on the case of KágéBéla, what you have to do with it, why you have to cover it, why you are providing a hinterland to Béla Kovács. Mr President, if you answer these questions honestly, I think that your credibility will also increase, and then you will be able to better represent the programmes and the proposals that you have just formulated. Because once again, you are not expected to ask questions about corruption, but to answer. We look forward to your answers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Bravo, bravo!]]
u2015-12-07-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that today he has applied for a speech after the agenda: László Varju, independent; László Kiss, MSZP; Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz; János Fuzik, Slovak national minority speaker; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Szebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; László Teleki, István István Ikotity LMP representative. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's 11:56. We're gonna start questioning. I respectfully inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Mr Nándor Gúr, Mr K/7496. Mr Seszták, Minister for National Development, is not responsible for the motion. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice: The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Mr Sándor Fazekas, Minister of Agriculture, who is competent and responsible for the subject. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Last week, we adopted a bill on national land assets, which the Constitutional Court challenged on several points, and in this section there is a section dealing with pre-lease rights previously established in a bilateral contract, which was deleted so to speak retroactively. This section has not yet entered into force, however, in recent years, the National Land Fund Manager has clearly implemented this rule without having a legal mandate to do so, and the invitation to tender is still so. I would like to ask whether on this basis the land lease contracts previously concluded are in force after they have been drawn up on the basis of an illegal situation and are planning something on this, so that any kind of redress is possible there. The other question concerns another type of law, our fellow Member Balázs Győrffy submitted a bill amending the civil code, which would constitute a new contract for land lease contracts previously concluded. I would like to ask a firm answer whether, in this case, if there is indeed a new contract between the new owner and the former land user, the Act on the Traffic in Agricultural Lands Section 5 16. § (2), (3) the maximum amount of property, i.e. 1200 and 1800 hectares, or this legal place will not be in place in this case for some reason. It doesn't matter because it means that their saying that land sales shouldn't affect previous rental conditions is clearly dead, so I would ask for a definite answer. Everyone who wants to buy land needs to know that. Thank you very much for your attention. In this case, the maximum amount of land in (3), i.e. 1200 and 1800 hectares, or this legal place will not apply for some reason. It doesn't matter because it means that their saying that land sales shouldn't affect previous rental conditions is clearly dead, so I would ask for a definite answer. Everyone who wants to buy land needs to know that. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause from the lines of the MSZP. )
u2015-12-07-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already indicated, the answer will be given by Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-12-07-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman Zoltán Grongös, I'll answer the questions you're asking, which concern basic land-rights categories. I'm surprised that you're uninformed about these things, and I'm convinced that someone who does a gold-cheated host course is more informed than you are, but I think [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't be personal, but answer!]] It is certainly useful to talk about this issue. And I can see that the congressman got very nervous all of a sudden and started yelling. Dear Parliament, What's this about? LXXVIII of 2010 on the National Earth Fund. Law 6 provides that, when land or farm land is leased, the right to pre-lease under the legislation cannot be exercised. [[Zoltán Gőgös: This is not on the basis of law, but on the basis of a bilateral agreement.]] This is based on a law, and the National Fund of Earth works under the law, and this is included in the treaties, honourable Member. You have to read this law instead of yelling behind my back. [[12.00]] So this is an existing regulation, which has not changed, and it is also included in the Hungarian Gazette. The other question, this also shows total indiscretion, because one thing is the land lease and the lease caps, which are included in the land law, and others are the property ceilings that apply to current land auctions, which have been 300 hectares for decades, so if someone exceeds that, then it is obvious that they cannot acquire property. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's not that!]] So the upper limit of land grabbing is 300 hectares, if you exceed that, you can't take possession of it, so you had to and you have to keep it in the future. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Minister, that is not what I asked.]] That's the thing, Congressman. I propose that you study more closely the land law, the National Earth Fund Act and all the relevant legislation. That was your question, and that's the answer. [[Zoltán Grumpy keeps talking to Dr. Sándor Fazekas.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-24	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman, I suggest you discuss this with the Minister next, outside the meeting room, okay? Thank you very much. Now, Congressman Gergely Kulcsár would be next. My apologies, the Attorney General has not yet arrived; as soon as he arrives, your question will be taken forward. [[Zoltán Grimlock is talking to Dr. Sándor Fazekas. Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Choose your words.]] Dear Parliament, Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, What is new when we hear about the catastrophic state of health? [[Zoltán Grumpy keeps talking to Dr. Sándor Fazekas.]] Now, however, we have come to the point that every week there is at least one news about the fact that workers in one part of the country are not being paid overtime, like the last time in Kalocsa the nurses' overtime, or working residents unsupervised, and the last time ten thousand health workers could wait weeks to pay their wages. When will these permanent problems finally end... [[Noise. Zoltán Gőgös is constantly in contact with Dr. Sándor Fazekas. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-12-07-26	I would ask the Members of the Council to allow the question to be addressed. I don't want to start my first day here after a long time by touching the discipline wand. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-27	...the more embarrassing explanation that the technical error or the transition to the new system is causing the delay? These are unacceptable, since they are no longer accepted as a substitute for rent and therefore do not provide food to those involved in shops, for example, working part - time. Or I could mention the paramedics, who are forced to make a living with an incredibly small amount of money, month after month, for them this delay has created a particularly difficult situation. With such working conditions, if they don't even get that little wage, who will not escape from this country under such circumstances? [[Zoltán Grumpy keeps talking to Dr. Sándor Fazekas.]] The situation is also serious because the government nationalised hospitals, the whole system is becoming more centralised, and the workers - obviously those who are civil servants - are regularly subject to such state control that they are not paying their wages or other similar problems, so it is clear that the government is responsible for them. You are also responsible for the fact that there has not yet been a general wage increase in health care. Health care is abandoned, the workload is increasing, the number of missing workers is increasing, wages are still among the lowest in the EU. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How much longer do we have to wait for the general health basic wage increase? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-12-07-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Honourable constantly speaking Congressman Haughty! Dear House, You have finished with the general wage increase, let me start there, honourable Member. I think it's a common goal for everyone, not just politicians, every good person, to raise the wages of health care workers. In 2012-2013, a general wage increase was made, and this year a wage increase, which mainly increased the salary of shift workers in addition to the sickbed. One of the foundations of this was precisely the chips tax, and the fact that the Hungarian reforms now have more revenue for the budget, so in 2013 we were able to pay a higher salary of HUF 75 billion to the health care sector, and this year we can provide more than HUF 5 billion, HUF 5.4 billion to the workers on the side of the sickbed, and next year more than HUF 12 billion in extra wages compared to the previous ones, the latter with the release of the previously frozen mobile wage. This is obviously already felt, but obviously we also know that the wage increase will continue. So when you talk about when there will be a wage increase, please start with the general wage increase that started in the health care sector in 2012-2013 and reached about 27 percent. The problem is without doubt, and we must apologize for the fact that some people have actually received their regular payment late due to problems in IT payroll, and we apologize to them. Where possible, they were informed in advance by the institution's management, and according to our information, they have received the benefit they would have been entitled to since then. We apologize for the inconvenience, but I would like to point out that it was not because anywhere, any collateral was incomplete, but because there was an IT shift in several segments of the government, and that caused the problem. With regard to residents, I'd like to tell you that the reason for the transfer was because hospitals no longer pay their residents' salaries. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] but the central budget is the background institution of our ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Attorney General a question, "Why didn't you suspect István Tiba?" It's an address. The answer will be given by Mr Gergely Kulcsár; the answer will be given by István Lajtár, Deputy Attorney General, whom I respectfully welcome from here. Here you go.
u2015-12-07-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, At the end of 2013, it was discovered that the prosecutor's office was investigating suspicion of abuse and bribery in Balmazújváros and that the Fidesz city administration might be involved. Jobbik had already raised its word and called on the stakeholders, especially the then Fidesz mayor of István Tiba, to clarify his role in the case. The answer was silence, then misrepresentation. Later it turned out that the suspect in the case was Margit Veres - former notary, current mayor - trusted by István Tiba. Later it turned out that Margit Veres, as a Balmazújvárosi notary, took 5 million forints in cash in private in a dark evening class from an entrepreneur whose company, as a coincidence, received HUF 180 million from the local government on the same day. The notary gave the money to the mayor of István Tiba in private the next day. Margit Veres, who became Mayor of Balmazújváros last year with the support of Fidesz and MSZP, has recently been brought to justice for bribery. According to the phone records, István Tiba told Margit Veres to keep 450,000 forints of money and to get a car as a gift from the contractor. The D.A.'s office should be praised for exposing a fidesz corruption, but the investigating authority did not suspect István Tiba, nor was it marked as a witness to be heard in the indictment, even though it is clear as day that he has something to do with the crime. According to the D.A.'s office, the money from the crime ended up with him, and he told Veres that he was getting a car as a gift, so it's likely he was pulling the strings. Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, Opposite information has come to light as to whether István Tiba was questioned as a witness in the case. What is the truth about this? Did the investigation find out what happened to the money? Did Tiba spend it or did he increase his party register? I'll ask you this: why don't you dare accuse a pro-government Member of Parliament? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-07-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Attorney General István Lajtár. Here you go.
u2015-12-07-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The charge of bribery committed by a senior official in the matter and other criminal offences was prosecuted at the Central Detective General Prosecutor's Office. The Attorney General has filed charges against the former Balmasújváros notary, who is now the mayor of the city, and an entrepreneur. The first trial in the case was held recently by the court. The Central Investigator's Attorney General's office determined the indictment against the testimony of the defendants who refused to commit the crime on the basis of other evidence. In their testimony, the defendants claimed that the amount in the indictment was not transferred as an undue advantage, but as a loan within the framework of a civil law transaction. The Law on Criminal Procedure 6. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, criminal proceedings may be initiated only on the grounds of suspicion of a criminal offence and only against those who are subject to reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence. A number of provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure contain rules under which a particular means of proof cannot be taken into account or when a fact derived from a specific means of proof cannot be considered as evidence. [[12.10]] In accordance with Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, criminal proceedings may be initiated only on the grounds of suspicion of a criminal offence and only against those who are subject to a substantiated suspicion of a criminal offence. A number of provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure contain rules under which a particular means of proof cannot be taken into account or when a fact derived from a specific means of proof cannot be considered as evidence. (12.10) The prosecutor's accusation must therefore be based on evidence obtained in accordance with the legal requirements, because they are the only ones capable of supporting anyone's guilt, of overthrowing the presumption of innocence. In every case, legality is the only standard, i.e. there is no relevance to the membership of the Party or the quality of its representatives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: He was very weak!]]
u2015-12-07-34	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Member Attila Tilki, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. A new flood reservoir on the Tisza. How is the further development of the.Vásárhelyi plan going? It's an address. Congressman Attila Tilki has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As the longest tributary of the Danube and one of the most important rivers in Central Europe, the Tisza occupies a prominent place in Hungary's water drawing. As we know, the Tisza, reaching the Great Plains, is slowing down significantly, creating a huge number of turns and branches, which has made floods more frequent. The possibility of flooding is increased by the fact that the trees in Transcarpathia cause the water to descend from the Carpathians without obstacles. Only for the past few decades would it be difficult to calculate how many times the river has left the river and caused several billionaires of material damage. In the people of Szatmár-Bereg, the extraordinary situation of 98 and the flood in Bereg in 2001, but the last time there was a flood in the Upper Tisza just three weeks ago. Unfortunately, the experience of recent years has shown that floods develop very quickly and that only 24-48 hours are available to prepare for them. For the people of Satmar Bereg, when it rains for three days, their stomachs shrink and wonder if the villages will be protected from the flood, whether the dams can sustain the terrible power of flooding the rivers. Between 2002 and 2010, socialist governments did little to protect the people living in Bereg and Szatmár. The costs of flood protection have been continuously reduced. Although there were parallel investments on which they did not regret the sources, they tried to bring the Alps' mood to the Hungarian Great Plain with tunnels below the wheat fields, on which the brothers-in-laws found good results - I was thinking of the M6 motorway. A series of failures accompanied their eight - year careers, rarely called government. They couldn't make the Tisza-Samos public reservoir, and as mayor of White-Girmat, I too lived through their failures. I believe that the Bereg flood reservoir, which was inaugurated in Tarp on 26 November from 33 billion forints, is of particular importance for flood protection in the region. I ask the Minister how the Vásárhelyi plan development programme is progressing. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-12-07-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard on behalf of Minister Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The further development of the Vásárhelyi plan has so far produced six reservoirs of 721 million cubic metres in volume. The combined effect is 35 centimeters [35 cm] of the entire Tisza phase. This does not yet reach the goal set out in the Vásárhelyi plan, as it is worth one meter. In this connection, significant work was carried out in the vicinity of Martfű, Vezseny, above Szolnok, and in Rákóczifalva there was also a 6.5 kilometer new charging section in the buffalo lake area. Flood protection work was also carried out in Transcarpathia, which did not result in an increase in the mass of flood waves, but a significant increase in the peak of flood waves. Further investments are therefore needed. In the 2014-2020 programming period, two additional flood control reservoirs and wave spatial planning will take place in the Central and Lower Tisza Valley in the context of the programme. The construction of flood protection protection lines on a moderate flood level and the reduction of the load on the protection lines will be carried out in the framework of four additional initial programmes. The total cost of the planned programme is nearly 140 billion HUF, which can be achieved through the funding of the construction of the KEHOP 1.4.0. flood protection development. The planned developments significantly reduce the flood risk in the region and contribute to the protection of the assets of the people living in the Tisza Valley, as well as industrial and economic facilities and agricultural areas, thus contributing to a general sense of security, and also to the improvement of the quality of life. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-12-07-38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, László Varju, an independent representative, would you like to ask the Attorney General:. The Prosecutor's Office is the guardian of legality or the government's defense attorney? It's an address. I would like to inform Mr. Congressman that the answer will be given on behalf of Mr. Attorney General István Lajtár, Deputy Attorney General. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-12-07-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, On 10 June 2015, the Hungarian Olympic Committee adopted a general meeting resolution in which it supported Budapest's application for the summer Olympics in 2024. Several weeks ago, however, it became known that, due to the irregular nature of the assembly of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, all the decisions of the General Assembly, including the decision to apply for the 2024 Olympics, had been declared void. The Attorney General will surely remember that in 2011, the Parliament amended the Law on Sport, according to which they changed the institutional system of Hungarian sports management, the MOB was authorised to manage, operate and finance Hungarian sport. The statutory obligation of the MOB to hold the general meeting, to amend the statutes, to elect new officials was illegal. By turning to the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office, the applicant requested that, acting under the authority of general legal supervision, by setting a time limit, the Olympic Committee be called upon to restore its legitimate operation. The Democratic Coalition, contrary to the prosecutor's office, believes that the governing body of Hungarian sport should operate legally and that the intention to host the Olympics must be declared within a legal framework. So I ask you: why don't you bother the D.A.'s office that the MOB responsible for the management of all Hungarian sports operates in violation of the law? Do you respect the Curia's decision? Would you like to do so, and if so, in order for the MOB to function legally after four years? Do you wish to do so, and if so, what against those who created the illegal situation? And when it comes to government or government parties, why do they act as lawyers in this case, for example? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-07-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General István Lajtár. Here you go.
u2015-12-07-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the case referred to by the Member, the reason for the annulment by the court of the Mob resolutions adopted in 2012 was a breach of the statutes of the General Assembly. In the course of the judicial control of the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office, he found that the panel had held a general meeting before the judgment was brought into force, and had taken decisions in line with the content of those annulled decisions. The statute, which was then amended, was registered by the court. According to the resolution of the Attorney General's Office held by the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, there were no legal conditions for the prosecution's action to execute the judgment. Subsequently, the decision of the Curia in the review case, the grounds for which contained a different position from the interpretation of the law of the prosecutor on the scope of the annulment, was published. The decision of the Curia in a specific case is, of course, respected by the prosecution. However, I think it is necessary to stress that the decisions referred to by the Member did not affect the organisation of the summer Olympics in 2024. A separate case for repealing the related decisions is under way. On the day of 15 October 2015, the applicant submitted a re-application to the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office. The Attorney General's Office concluded that the judgment of first instance did not suspend the implementation of the decisions of the MOB and that the decision of the court was not yet final. In the absence of a legally established violation of law, there is no possibility for a prosecutor to take action. Finally, I would like to inform Congressman that the assessment of the activities of elected officials, which is not a defence lawyer, but an intermediary of the judiciary, covers the legality of the operation of the public body, falls within the autonomy of the general assembly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[12.20]]
u2015-12-07-42	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. Thank you very much for your presence. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Individual case of departures at St. Imre's Hospital? It's an address. Mr István Tukacs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We've already touched on the case of St. Imre's Hospital today. Six anesthesiologists leave, people whose work is extremely important for performing surgery. One of the six doctors has already publicly indicated the cause of his departure. He also announced his gross salary: HUF 325 thousand, as well as his number of on-calls, which is often six a week. Dear Secretary of State, You already said before the agenda that the specialists make 900 thousand forints, nineteen. Please repeat this in your reply, let the doctors and the therapists love you a little more. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP.]] That the six doctors stood up, there could be three reasons. 1. Their salary is so good, and their working conditions are so good, it's already bothered them, so they're looking for adventure elsewhere. 2. They thought that five years ago their situation had become worse, and with some spatters it had just begun to become a reality for them. 3. They just realized that Hungarian reforms do not work, at least not in health care. They just realized that their working conditions are untenable, that there is no qualified assistance, that there is no nurse, no nurse. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, first of all, I would suggest that you believe your own ears. When the outgoing doctor talks about you, believe me, not what the institution says. And finally, believe me, we couldn't stop the medical exodus. The St. Imre has become a business because six people are leaving at once. But what really needs to be done is that three doctors leave the country every day and look elsewhere for prosperity. Dear Secretary of State, What, then, is the truth in St. Imre? What about the emigration doctors? That's my question. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-12-07-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Fidesz-KDNP administration has managed to slow down the process of emigration of doctors against the MSZP, as since 2012-2013 the number of doctors asking for official permission to go abroad has been decreasing. It's not a coincidence, it's not a process on its own. The change in this trend is quite clear. After all, we saw that it was the residents, the young specialists, the nurses who went abroad most of the time. For this reason, in the case of nurses, exactly what we have accepted from 1 July, which has released the previously frozen wage supplement for those working on the side of the sickbed, those working on several shifts, the 5.4 billion HUF that we are spending on this is precisely what helps them to stay home and earn more; beyond the previous average wage increase of 2012-2013, 27 percent. In the case of young specialists, you know that from this year we have introduced that they are now entitled to five years after the residency period, the HUF 151 thousand with which we increase their benefits is precisely to be placed at the Hungarian health services. And you know it, Congressman, because you voted against the fact that we have been trying for years to make Hungarian jobs, Hungarian hospitals, more attractive to the youngest graduates in the residency support programme. While a resident could expect about 130 thousand forints in your time, it is now in the area of 400 thousand forints, which is far from what you may be earning in Germany or England. But if you look at the process of increasing this wage, then this is related to the decline in the number of doctors who are emigrating from the country and seeking work permit elsewhere. We would like to continue on this path, by providing additional resources, as we did this year, either by consolidating hospitals for HUF 60 billion, or by adding an extra wage supplement, HUF 5 billion, or for HUF 6 billion for the waiting list reduction programme. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We hope that the number of doctors going abroad will continue to decrease. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice:. Time is running out, patience is running out: when will the real accountability of executives begin? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We started 2015 by promising you to put the enforcement system in order, to account for the executioners. There has been a process, a ministerial commissioner has been appointed to lead the Chamber, criminal reports have also been made on the management of the Chamber, all of which we welcomed and supported, but we thought that these steps would still be powerless and further steps should be taken. Then the Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court of Justice ceased on 31 August as a result of the legislative amendments, from 1 September the executive faculty stood up. We have also supported these amendments in case something happens. Since then, it's been very quiet, bigger than we could expect in a situation like this. We said then that we didn't want it to just happen that others would be at the head of the organization, that others would disposal over the unruly money. We have heard exaggerating news about the over-optimistic news that the wallet has cut the executives' salary, but it is only that a cost ceiling has been introduced, which means that instead of tens of millions forints, executives will have to settle for 1 million forints of labor, which, of course, if they get to their hearts that they can't make it out of this, even 50 percent of the price is paid for a fee and a commission ceiling of 4 million forints. If we count this, they may still have higher money on a case than the financial sector's leaders can make on the basis of an increased threshold of five million in the financial sector. So we see that these cost cuts only do not affect ordinary cases. The system remains below 25 million forints. I ask the Secretary of State what the outcome of the complaints made in the Chamber's affairs is when we can hear the names of the people responsible. How many specific bailiffs have been vetted? How many complaints have been made and the proposals from NGOs dealing with the protection of debtors have been considered? I look forward to your honest answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-07-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer to what has been said from Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to inform the Member, referring to his comment on the alleged silence surrounding the restructuring of the executive system, that the background to professional work is still ongoing. The organisation system of the bailiffs has been renewed and re-established since 2014. The first step of this legislative process was the LIII of the year, adopted by the Parliament on 30 June 2015, on judicial enforcement. Act CVII of 2015 amending certain laws in this context. Law. The second step in the legislative process is the 35/2015 court enforcement tariff. It was the creation of an IM regulation, which was also mentioned by the Member. On this basis, a more equitable charging system has been introduced that is proportionate to the work carried out by the executives, for example, after a claim not exceeding HUF 5 million, the success fee for the executioner will be reduced from 10 per cent to 1 per cent. So there's going to be a significant change in mass cases. The third step in the legislative process is the 16/2001 on the organisation of judicial enforcement. Amendment of the IM Regulation, where the number of posts and the terms of the application have been amended. In response to the question of complaints concerning the previous Chamber's due diligence, I would like to inform you that, based on the complaint, the investigation is ongoing and that only the investigating authority can provide you with meaningful information about its current state of affairs. An important part of the reform is the control of independent judicial executives, which is carried out by the Justice Office. Of the 16 inspections planned for this year, 14 have already been carried out, 2 are in progress. This is expected to be evaluated at the beginning of next year. I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Justice is open to discussing any proposal from civil society organisations that can be considered professionally, and that we will, of course, examine them in the codification work. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Sallai R. Benedek, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:. If the Ministry of Agriculture does not support the land tax, why hasn't he taken any action against it? It's an address. It concerns Congressman Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.30]]
u2015-12-07-51	[[His mic's not on.]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President,
u2015-12-07-52	Congressman, please adjust your microphone. Is the card in?
u2015-12-07-53	Yeah.
u2015-12-07-54	It's okay now.
u2015-12-07-55	Excuse me. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, For once, I'm looking for a case that we're supposed to agree on, because the Ministry of Agriculture said in its communication earlier that it didn't agree in itself with the means of levying a land tax. However, it has been almost a year since this option opened up to the municipalities, and while relatively few municipalities have been using it in 2015, press reports suggest that new municipalities can introduce this instrument from 2016 onwards. The Ministry of Agriculture regularly stands up for smaller farmers in communication, so it is clear that if the Ministry of Agriculture still does not agree that the funding of municipalities should be complemented by such a tax, then there is no possibility that the Minister of Agriculture within the government may represent the position that this instrument can be imposed only for the purpose of holding a larger farm and that there is no possibility for the Ministry to lead the ministry in not collecting money from farmers in this title and form, but in principle to assist those who maintain local jobs and help those who are self-employed or employers in the employment of the countryside. Obviously, there are legislation that runs through Parliament at a very rapid pace, there have been more of it in recent weeks, which is why, obviously, we have been faced with this problem for almost a year, a year ago, when the Ministry of Agriculture expressed its opposition to this, and yet we do not see the government's ambition to deal with it, and indeed, as tax legislation allows, it is obvious that local farmers will have to suffer to an increased extent in the following year. I would like to ask the Minister, with all due respect, whether he does not see the opportunity to force local governments to collect this tax by changing the tax legislation for 2016. I would expect your reply on this matter with respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-12-07-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister for Agriculture Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-12-07-57	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you once again that there is currently no legal burden in Hungary called land tax or land tax. The Law on Local Taxes provides local authorities with the possibility of introducing so-called municipal tax by considering local specificities, within certain limits. Under very narrow conditions, land may be subject to this, but only if it is not subject to any other public burden, but cannot be the subject of a farmer, so that the taxation of agricultural production through land cannot be discussed. For this reason, the use of the term "terrain tax" in the context of agricultural production is premeditated, and this is inaccurate and misleading. As I have already informed the Member, the subject of the municipal tax cannot, for example, be an agricultural company, the owner of the land, who uses its land as an entrepreneur, nor can it be a private farmer, or a legal person, who owns the land as an entrepreneur. Due to the prohibition of double taxation, land cannot be a tax item either if the producer is then liable to pay a compensation contribution. It can be seen that the land tax is a category which does not, in fact, bear any tax or practical burden on farmers, so that it cannot and does not need to be combated. I hope that it has also become clear to the Member that the municipal tax cannot mean the taxation of agricultural production, of producers, and, contrary to what he claims, it must not affect domestic farmers or farmers. It follows from the institution of the local government that the decision of the municipalities can be the most influenced by the inhabitants of the settlement and the representatives elected by them, while Parliament and the government can set the framework for their operation. But, of course, we are open to evaluating, either this year or next year, what changes to the tax system are necessary, what changes are possible. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-58	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Gábor Varga, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: "Do the new hydrocarbon concessions serve our country's energy strategy interests? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Varga has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-59	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The central challenge of our country's energy strategy is to change energy structures, including increasing the share of low-carbon electricity production, energy efficiency measures, renewable and alternative heat production and the dissemination of low-carbon transport modes. At the same time, within the strategic time frame, we are also in the interest of the national economy to make good use of our hydrocarbon resources. Last month, eight more applicants were entitled to conclude hydrocarbon concession contracts. There is a strong interest in domestic hydrocarbon concession opportunities, which can be considered as very positive in the context of low investment activity in the industry. Among the winners are O&GD Central Kft., which has won the right in the regions of Berettyóújfalu, Mogyoród, Nagykáta and Ócsa. MOL, the Open Company of the Hungarian Oil and Gas Industry in two areas, in the region of Battonya-Pusztaföldvár-North and Dany, HHE Group Kft. PanBridge Hungary Zrt., which is the majority owned by the Canadian Bankers Petroleum, who has participated for the first time in the domestic concession tender in Lakocsa. and won a concession in the Bishop's Land. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I am asking you whether the new hydrocarbon concessions are in the interest of our country's energy strategy. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will give the answer to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, One of the main objectives of the national energy strategy is to reduce Hungary's energy dependency. In order to achieve this goal, the energy strategy will, in addition to alternative and nuclear energy, count on the use of domestic fossil fuels in the long term. Currently, hydrocarbon production is the most important site for the mining of energy sources in Hungary. In order to reduce energy dependence and increase domestic production of hydrocarbons, the government aims to increase and increase the production of hydrocarbons. To this end, the Ministry of National Development has issued three calls for mining concessions for hydrocarbon research, exploration and extraction in line with international industrial practice from 2013. The purpose of the concessions is to encourage domestic mining investments and to promote research and extraction activities. With their economic recovery, job creation and preservation, concessions contribute for several decades to the strengthening of the economy and the achievement of sustainable and responsible mineral wealth management. A total of 18 hydrocarbon areas were tendered for the three rounds, of which 15 were awarded. In the context of the third round of concession tenders, the successful applicants have recently become known, and you have mentioned them, and this has allowed the process of contracting to begin. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] A total of 17 offers were received in the 9 announced areas, which is also interesting because there is a low level of investment in this area in the international field. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When will the KLIK provide the right conditions for self-assessment of teachers? It's an address. Mr László Kiss has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As an educator, I waited four years to get an answer to this question so that I would be right away, but maybe now. For information and communication technology poses challenges to the current public education system, which in fact arrived in the environment of Hungarian public education with a huge elegance in these days. [[12.40]] The use of computers and other IT tools has been expected of teachers so far, but this competence and access to it is greatly appreciated, as teachers should be able to create digital content and upload it to an electronic interface, and to produce and send digital moving images in connection with the operation of the teacher self-assessment system. And that's where we get to the problem. Today, in most schools, there are not enough IT tools in the faculty, in the teachers' lounge, to enable teachers to do the electronic administration that suddenly fell on them. E-log, educator self-assessment, compilation of the papers, and a long list of the work that requires a computer at the teaching bodies, in the teachers' rooms. Dear Secretary of State, Therefore, I ask the following: have surveys been carried out in primary and secondary public education institutions to see how much of the computers provided for the use of teachers are, what is the proportion? Do you have a survey of whether there is a sufficient amount of modern computers in the teachers' rooms? Do you think that the practice that has been observed in several districts is correct, that teachers are forced in many places to bring their own home machines into their workplace and use them where there are no sufficient computers? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-12-07-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We all remember the socialist era when we were able to buy cocoa-proof computers in schools at multiple prices. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] When it turns out that it really doesn't mean anything extra, or we remember the great successes of the Sulinet program linked to János Kóka - quote. So it seems that his attraction to informatics has not ceased in this area either. What has happened in recent years in connection with the development of the IT tool park for public education, i.e., the development of the, iron, we can say that educational institutions have spent more than HUF 12.5 billion on this, and they have been able to purchase 50 thousand IT tools, including desktop computers, tablets, laptops, projectors and digital teaching equipment. And we can also say that if you already have the machine to run the programs, from November 2015 150,000 teachers and instructors can use the most basic Microsoft Office apps for free on five personal computers and five other different devices, Word, Excelt, PowerPoint. This is also important, because we really want to make education governance more digital, or the whole culture of education, not only in order to increase these competences, but also in the form of a part of the curriculum, for example, in the case of IT, the IT textbook itself will cease to exist on paper and would be taught only in the form of digital teaching material. But besides electronic administration, the management of the e-log is now electronicizing the system of public education. I think that everyone agrees with this basically, because it is important to use the most modern technical tools. Before we introduced this system, which you referred to, of course, the Education Office carried out several tests with hundreds of teachers, such trial procedures were conducted with the National Educational Faculty, National Association of Public Education Experts, 500 self-assessment procedures were tested in 172 institutions, and the result of this pilot was that teachers asked primarily for background customer support, so they received not only a detailed user manual, but also a background customer service for the installation. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question about the latest victim of the health system at St. Imre's Hospital? It's an address. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the previous two speeches, we have already heard that at St. Imre's Hospital, unfortunately, six doctors, six specialists who are performing anesthesia, anesthesia, emergency care and intensive therapy have resigned. According to the statements, they said that the appropriate conditions for their work were not given. According to my reports, there have been many cases of anesthetic anesthetic in two O.R.s, which is illegal. That's because there's not enough of them. So financial appreciation was not the primary reason here - as you said, they earn 900 thousand forints per month gross, that's ridiculous! They pursue their profession in business form, with an average of 4,000 forints an hour, which comes out to 500,000. And if we look at how much they earn in the other countries of Western Europe, they make four times that in Germany. It's not gonna hold up. This is also a bad situation, which has developed here, because it is a lack of profession, just as these specialists will be missed at St. Imre's Hospital. There have also been rumors that doctors who do not have an anesthetic exam, which means they are still resident, will sleep without supervision. This is also against the law. The small hospitals where the classes ceased to exist, the doctors did not go to another hospital, and perhaps they would have strengthened the specialist staff there, but they went to the Western European countries and strengthened the health system there. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State how the government is trying to deal with the situation in which specialists who have passed the exam and have worked for several years remain at home and strengthen the Hungarian health system. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. It's a rare round of applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2015-12-07-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2015-12-07-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is important to say in this particular case that two of those six doctors are transferred to another institution. It's possible they were offered a higher wage or some other advantage. But the figures I have said here that there is an average salary of HUF 980 thousand in this department are facts, honourable Member, I can show you the salaries one by one. Six doctors had a salary of over a million forints. They obviously deserve this money, and it is also obvious that there are no such levels in other hospitals, which is why, in general, we need to pay a lot of attention to the fact that we are able as much as possible to raise income in the case of specialists, as you have said. As I told you, a young specialist can now expect an additional income of HUF 151 thousand, which we will give to these young specialists after the residency years, precisely to stay here and work in Hungary. Concerning the general sectoral collective agreement: of course, consultations with representatives of the sector are ongoing. Last Tuesday, last week, they visited our ministry and agreed on how this type of sectoral collective agreement could be implemented. You are well aware, Mr President, that there have already been general wage increases in previous years, to a similar extent to everyone, 27 per cent, worth HUF 75 billion, and there has been a further increase from 1 July to HUF 5.3 to 5.4 billion for most people working in addition to the sickbed, working several shifts and working night shifts. So we want to do what we can to cover the extra income from chips tax and something else. Renovation and modernisation of hospitals worth HUF 500 billion also means that in many cases the operation of hospitals will become cheaper, either because of thermal insulation or because of more modern equipment. What hospitals save from this can also be used for wages. And residents' wages will surely be saved by hospitals, because they are now paid directly by the state. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: why does the government not boast that more and more workers live in poverty in a work-based society? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-12-07-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. It is also worth returning here in Parliament to the publication of the KSH on households' income situation in 2014, and especially how the government interpreted these figures. You've been known to deny poverty statistics on a regular basis, haven't you? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Which one?]] They've been questioning his credibility, and they've been trying to rub out these numbers that match your government propaganda, and they've been trying to miss out on those that don't match their central control panels. We do not forget that you tried to ban the word "poor" from your dictionary, but in the ministries you practically forbade employees from saying that word "poor" or "poor" or writing it in e-mails. If you look at the data better than you have looked at it, you can see that there are not many reasons for this country's joy; in 2014, the average income was 1.1 million forints. What does that mean? This means that the average Hungarian man, not the honourable secretary of state, but the average Hungarian people, lived on income just above the minimum of living. So that's how it is now. In addition, KSH also stated that they themselves introduced the new category of poverty for their employees. I am very pleased with that, because we have been talking about this for a year now, we have inseminated other parties with it, here in Parliament workers' poverty is a recurring topic; at least now there will be a category in the data of the HCSO as well as employee poverty. [[12.50]] What we see is that nearly 10 percent of employees are poor, or less than 70,000 forints of income for these people. And I would like to add that when you took over the steering rod in the previous cycle, it was still 3 percent less, so during the last five years' governance of Fidesz-KDNP, the situation of employees has deteriorated, more and more poor people who work. That's what I'm sensing. For a few years, you have been saying that you are helping Hungarian people break out of poverty by working, giving back the honour of the work. Compared to this, we see that work in a work-based society in Orbán is no longer a guarantee of breaking out of poverty. Dear Secretary of State, When will the work of the working people finally be appreciated, and when will they finally take meaningful steps to ensure that those who live from work do not end up in poverty?
u2015-12-07-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't know if when you were looking at the statistics, you've considered who you're talking about, who you're drawing out of the statistics. They are the majority of those who have been unemployed for a long time. They were often away from the world of work, often without income, or, if so, they were forced to settle for a low amount of support to replace employment. If they raised a child, they'd be in even more difficult situations. Where were they in this statistics before 2010? You didn't mention that, Congresswoman. Certainly not among workers, since they were unemployed or assisted at this time. The government's priority - and there is no change in that - is the need to improve the situation of these people and to improve it by putting them to work. Public employment is one of the tools for this. Our employment policy also targets the most disadvantaged sectors in the labour market and supports them within the framework of these measures. This will enable us to provide greater help and support for those layers, as well as their location, for whom employers have only a moderate interest. As a result of public employment, the crowds who have been less and less aided have become workers. Employees have a higher statistical rate of lower-skilled, lower-income workers. That's why you can highlight from your context the statistical data you've given in your question. I would like to add that the KSH publication also states that annual net income per capita exceeded the previous year by 4.8 percent. This means that real wages have increased significantly by almost 5 percent. Not to this extent, but real wages have also increased among the public workers. I would like to point this out to you when you highlight statistical data and do not look at them in the context of it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. When does the government realize that instead of low added value jobs, the future belongs to more skilled jobs? It's an address. Here you go, notary.
u2015-12-07-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Everyone who reads KSH can see that life expectancy increases at birth. This is good news, but you also need to see that, in parallel to technological progress, robotics and a multitude of advanced software are also appearing, so the labour market and the jobs will be changing in Hungary as well. A multitude of diverse tasks will be faced by workers of the future generation. Their willingness to cooperate and their ability will also be decisive, because if this is not of the same meaning and content as it should be, they will obviously be impossible in the labour market. It can be seen that in about a decade there will be four or five different demographic groups in the labour market. The advanced IT background makes people of the flesh and blood a little bit out of the labour market in a sense, because expectations will be different than they have been in the last decade or what they are today. Outsourcing, project management, which are still true today, freelancers, flexible work and many new features will be strengthened. A significant proportion of today's usual jobs, some prognosis suggests that 30 percent and then 80 percent, in extreme cases, can be eliminated. In this sense, my questions are about when, instead of low added value jobs, the government intends to strengthen the establishment of higher-skilled jobs with higher added value. What will the Government do to ensure that people living in their tens to twenty years today do not make their work on declining or non-living salaries and do not leave the country? In Hungarian, overall, do you think that the medium-term challenges of the labour market are met by what is now combined with the 16-year obligation and can be combined with the knowledge that can be acquired? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-12-07-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. I will try to answer as many of your questions as possible, but the two minutes may not be enough to list what we have done to ensure that people with high quality skills can find a good job. It is not that the government wants to deploy low prestige jobs in Hungary in bulk. The international large companies and medium-sized companies operating in Hungary and using the most advanced technologies could be considered to contribute significantly to the improvement of the professional knowledge and preparedness of the Hungarian workforce. As regards the age limit for compulsory education: this is 16 years in most Member States of the European Union, as in Hungary, but you also know that the last amendment to the Public Education Act extended the possibility of taking part in day school education until 25 years of age, such as the acquisition of professional qualifications and professional qualifications. There have also been significant changes in the VET system recently, with the aim of raising the quality of VET, training a sufficient number of well-educated professionals with a wide range of basic knowledge. In addition, from this academic year, the state will support the acquisition of second vocational qualifications, and from the next academic year, students in vocational schools will be able to acquire, in addition to graduation, a valuable vocational qualification that can be used well in the labour market. I would also like to say that the government is giving very serious financial support and tender money to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in order to expand their production capacity, but they are looking for high-quality professionals that we can provide them from the vocational training system. Overall, in order to avoid running out of two minutes, I can say that small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to use more than HUF 200 billion on various items for this type of development. Of course, I did not include the amount that could be spent on R &amp; D in the financial cycle of nearly HUF 700 billion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, vice-president of Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister of Interior:. What do you intend to do to reduce drug consumption in the area of Bátonyterenye and Mátraverbély? It's an address. Mr Tamás Sneider, Vice President, has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-12-07-79	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, What is Austria to Western Hungary is Pest County to Nógrád. There are no skilled jobs in the county of Nógrád, so young people leave the otherwise uniquely beautiful area with a mass. Wages are the lowest nationwide, and real estate is unsold. The problem in Nógrád is complex, and I would like to focus on just one slice of this. Dear Secretary of State, I do not question the claim that there is a permanent police presence in Mátraverebély, which has already been made here, within the walls of this House. At the same time, it cannot be doubted that the majority of current schoolchildren in Mátraverebély are no longer able to escape addiction to drugs, especially the various herbs soaked in synthetic drugs. Dear Secretary of State, On the outskirts of the country, such as Nógrád, how will young people who experience their everyday life in a stupor of drugs? [[13.00]] If we do not act urgently, if we do not intervene drastically, can we talk about successful integration in a decade? Any catch-up plan, sound-like lozunge is merely a national anti-drug strategy if schoolchildren in less than 2,000 enthusiastic settlements know where to get the drugs. At the same time, the authorities' staff do not find any trace of the distributors. TÁSZ, I quote, has not yet been accused of better bias, and the synth grass has conquered the report by the title Mátraverebeyt. The situation is catastrophic, which requires rapid and effective official intervention. Otherwise, the generation of school benches in Mátraverebély and Bátonterenye is inexcusable and the region is completely depopulated. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-07-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, I thank you for your work, your cooperation, and your chairship to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-12-07-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The national anti-drug strategy set out the goal of eliminating drug use in Hungary by 2020, eliminating the crimes that you have talked about, and taking concrete measures to this end by the government and the police. Allow me to draw attention to the 2004/2014 police anti-drug strategy. An ORFK instruction, which has also set this objective for itself and defined its means of implementation. In particular, it set the goal of eliminating the entry into and intra-country trade of psychoactive substances into Hungary. As regards the task of the Nógrád County Police Department and its activities, a day of crime prevention and victim protection was held on 18 March 2015 in Mátravere, Madách Imre Primary School. At the event, all school students were attended by police, who drew attention to the dangers of drug use. The school crime prevention advisory network launched in 2013 also provides regular drug prevention lectures for parents, members of the faculty, as well as workshops for students. Since the 2013-14 academic year in the county of Nógrád, there has been a school crime prevention consultant at the Barbély Lajos Secondary School and College in Salgótarján, the András Fáy Secondary School of Bátonyterenye. Both schools have a significant number of students from Bátonyterenye and Mátraverebély. Honourable Congressman, I can assure you that the government, the police, will do everything in their power to eliminate this serious problem. We know the problem, as I have mentioned in the previous part of my reply, measures have already been taken to prevent this and to prevent further crime. I trust that you will be able to give me information in your next speech that these measures have resulted in results. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. My compliments to my fellow Members, and I give the floor to István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, who wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-83	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Some citizens have shared with me what the situation of relatives at the care fee is today. They told me that they were completely abandoned by the state, that medical care at home, medical care, medical training, and medical training in sick, elderly infirmary patients. In the absence of state involvement, family members are left with superhuman work, and in many cases the state does not even provide financial support. But even if they get a care fee, it's almost enough to starve to death. As we know, from March this year, the government has changed the system of social benefits. Although local authorities may continue to grant an equity care fee from their own resources, since the State has withdrawn from the financing of a number of social benefits, the municipalities have less room for manoeuvre than before. Few municipalities can afford to provide a fee on a fair basis for those who care for their elderly, persistently ill family members. In the past, it could have reached tens of thousands in nursing care, the number of people receiving care, and this number must have fallen. The family members who were left unsupported could have been in a very difficult situation, their health insurance had ceased, and they had to pay a monthly contribution of HUF 6930. And their nursing time is no longer included in the hours of service. This is particularly unfair because they are actually carrying out the task of the state, releasing the burden of their work on the state institution system. Because of all this, I ask you when you get real help from the inpatient elderly and their family members. When will there be funding for services near home, nursing care? When will family members receive greater support for their sacrifices? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]]
u2015-12-07-84	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-12-07-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that if someone has held two reception hours as a Member of Parliament, then they have met this problem, this issue, because it is general. They came to us many times in the past years. That is why you have forgotten to say in your speech what changes have been made in this area. But first, let me fix one more slide. You said that the state had withdrawn from some of the social services. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Because it is.]] You know very well, we could also say that the municipalities have withdrawn from some of the social assistance and are being provided by the state for them. Since it has so far been mixed-financed, some of these subsidies have been partly covered by the State, partly by the municipality, and now one part of the benefits, the replacement incomes are paid automatically by the State, while the municipalities can pay them from increased resources in the form of municipal aid. So there was a separation here, along a fairly clear system. So the state did not withdraw, there was a division of tasks here, but the state also increased the support of the municipalities in this direction. As a result, only and exclusively the State will continue to pay the basic and priority care fee on the rights of the person, the municipalities, contrary to previous practice, when they have contributed, neither the basic or the primary care fee should contribute from municipal sources. The former equity benefit may indeed be granted by the municipalities as municipal aid. If you look at how an increased care fee has changed, you can see that while four to five years ago it was HUF 38 350, this is now 44 250, and in the case of those with a high priority, we have introduced a special care fee. They now receive 53,000 forints instead of 38,000 forints. Calculate, Member, the difference between the increase from 38,000 to 53,000 in five years and the increase in income for 12 100 people. Obviously, these are not large amounts, but if you look at them, there were 30-40 or 50 percent increases compared to the previous one, there were increases in each category, and there were some increases in about 50 percent. This shows that the government has tried to help people in such a difficult situation. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-86	Thank you very much. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the Rules of the House, it should have been me jogging now, because time has gone too far. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question. It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2015-12-07-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, From September 2012, the Fidesz-KDNP government introduced everyday physical education by the Public Education Act. However, the introduction of daily physical education was carried out too quickly and very violently. In spite of the lack of minimum basic conditions, professional organisations, educators, parents, children, you have not heard these arguments. Despite this, five lessons per week have been introduced in an ascending system, while there are hardly any schools in the country where this would have the minimum basic conditions; we are talking about gymnasiums, sports fields or any sports space. [[13.10]] In the academic year 2015-2016, five physical classes are now mandatory every year, and the situation in schools is more chaotic than ever before. The government has also succeeded in fundamentally screwing up this good goal. Do you know what Kung Fu Panda and A Karate Kid have in common, Mr. Secretary? I'll help you. Kids watch these movies too often at a lot of schools these days; I'll explain why. In August 2015, the gym reconstruction program was published. This was also written in August, then won with schools in September, the planning and public procurement started, and it was not possible to start December 2015 with these gymnasiums being handed over. Three or four months ago, they couldn't even solve the daily physical education of children in the existing gym. Secretary of State, when are you going to end this mess? When will they hear the words of children, teachers and parents? I managed to get the kids to hate gym class, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-07-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2015-12-07-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Perhaps few know among the walls of this House that the introduction of physical education in schools is linked to the name of Kuno Klebelsberg, born 140 years ago, as he was the one who said many decades ago that there was a need for physical education within the walls of schools. We could obviously have heard similar voices from the opposition's benches, but I think it was the right decision by Kuno Klebelsberg when he introduced physical education in school. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] I think we know the medical records for both children and adults. When I look at obesity, two or three out of ten young children are suffering from obesity. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Poverty and obesity are closely linked, Mr State Secretary!]] Six out of ten adults. It is therefore especially important for young people to get to know and like a sport in a way that they can then practice several times a week. This, of course, required gradual and development, which is why we introduced everyday physical education in an up-and-coming system, and on the other hand, the government launched an infrastructure development programme worth 3 billion forints to support gymnasium, classroom and school building. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: For sports halls!]] It's still in progress in a number of places. Dabason, Konyaro, Andocson, Bogyiszló, Görgetegen, Nagyberény [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How can you say that, Mr. Secretary of State?]] Báránd, Nagyrebén, Szomodon, Jászfőszentgyörgy, Dunaalmás, Zichyújfalun, Tiszatarján, Érd, Pázmánd, Sárrétudvari, Role, Gárdony, Kaba, Kistarcsa, Nyírboga, Tiszabő, Hejőpápi [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: They haven't even started yet, Mr. Secretary, even last year!]] Chanádpalota, Erk. Here, with 3 certificate rooms, 14 pieces of type A [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We are still in the organization!]] With 5 B-type and 3 C-type gym investments, we try to help create the conditions for everyday physical education. [[Nándor Gúr: 3100 where it doesn't happen!]] You know, honourable Member, that many settlements have indeed been resolved for a transitional period so that if the school does not have a gymnasium or they can only use the yard in the summer, they have borrowed capacity from sports clubs or other institutions, they have concluded agreements where gymnastics can be held everywhere. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-07-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why are they letting the health care in Vas County be ruined? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2015-12-07-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Three years ago, the second Orbán government stopped obstetrics and active internal medicine in my hometown, Körmenden, with a single stroke of pen. Although the pro-government media is trying to distort reality, people living in the countryside, so the Vas County people face the worsening health situation every day. Lajos Rig and I visited institutions in Vas County in the summer. In the light of our experience, I find it incredibly cynical that you are talking about unprecedented improvements in health care. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: That's it! You've never seen me!]] In 2012, Jobbik protested with all possible means against redundancies. In addition to my speeches in Parliament, we organised a demonstration and collected signatures for the hospital in Körmend. The people in the region stood almost unanimously for the institution, but the government ignored their opinion. The investments announced with the big show-off were not made as promised. They keep pushing the deadline around, and in Szombathely, although they handed over the new medical block, in the infant and paediatric ward, mothers lie on the ground, just as chaotic conditions prevail in the maternity ward. In connection with the ongoing renovations in Körmend, pro-government politicians have promised to restore active internal medicine. At the same time, on the basis of our current collection of signatures, thousands of supporting signatures, I can clearly say that, contrary to what Fidesz politicians have said, obstetrics and gynecology are also needed in the region. Dear Secretary of State, I'm talking about facts, I'm looking for concrete answers. Will the terminated classes be restored to Körmend? Do you do anything to improve the health situation in our county, including in Szombathely, or do you continue to give priority to supporting the small railway and Lőrinc Mészáros? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-07-92	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-12-07-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Congressman, you forgot to mention the numbers in your speech, because the government had nothing to do with what classes remain or which do not remain, say, in terms of obstetrics. There is a minimum number of obstetrics and gynecology departments in the professional college that can still maintain obstetrics, a minimum number of births, and if the number of births falls below this, it is automatically that these obstetrics are terminated. It didn't happen any other way. There are bed-use data, there are necessary personal conditions under which certain classes can operate, and if these bed-use data are not available, we will obviously decide on more concentrated care for patients, because they can be provided with an adequate level of care if this is done elsewhere. However, of course, gynaecological activities can continue as overnight surgical care, simple medical, surgical and gynaecological care takes place there, in the vicinity of the population, in the form of one-day surgery and outpatient care. As regards the developments at Markusovszky Hospital's Körmend premises, you first said that there would be no improvements and then started to detail them. I don't know how much I have to add to this. A billion-forint investment will take place, 24-hour emergency care, chronic internal medicine department, surgical department will be renovated, the O.R. level will be remodeled, a one-day surgical operation will be established, and machine replacement and machine upgrading will also be carried out. The operation of the active surgical department, the care of chronic and active patients, the outpatient care of 25 specialist clinics, medical therapy, psychotherapy, dermatological, pulmonary and psychiatric orders will be possible. I would also like to say that in terms of rescue, new ambulances were set up at six locations last year, and a new B- and a new C-car was added to the county. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-07-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of May Other Politics, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Do you want to reduce the wages of social workers even more with public workers? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-12-07-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There is another bump in the government's house: instead of paying honor to the people who work hard, they try to keep the wages down again. Right now, they're playing with the wages of social workers. A recent decree on the implementation of the Summer Law Amendment, in which two categories of home assistance were created, was one of personal care and the other of social assistance. We figured they'd be thinking about something again. The first requires professional qualifications, and the second can be done in a crash course, and then it can be done for much less wages, specifically for the payment of public workers. We see that the government basically has two options. One is that he is going to pay the people who know how to do it and the other is that he is going to break the wages, and he is going to have public workers do some kind of shortcut and then he is going to apply them on the labour market. You have to be clear. Your governance is no longer about trying to create jobs. Now they're trying to survive the responsibility of community service, which is that in this country, it's been a long time since we've been able to create decent jobs that can be made a living. Public work in your dictionary has long since been about offering temporary employment to people in disadvantaged labour markets, but rather about the fact that they are going to break wages now, and the wages of social workers who are already earning very little. Because skilled and socially sensitive jobs will be carried out by people, public workers, who have no choice but to accept the work offered, otherwise, if they do not do so, they will fall from all benefits. [[13.20]] Moreover, the government is double responsible, and I would very much like everyone to see clearly that they are doing this with a sector whose wages are already the lowest in the entire national economy. In recent years, the government has cheated them more than once, so you've deceived these people, you've discredited them, you've searched for them under the minimum of living, and now you're going to lower their wages. Dear Secretary of State, After re-employment, another scandal is about to come out that these people [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They're gonna get worse because of the Fidesz-KDNP activity. When are you going to give the social workers a real raise?
u2015-12-07-96	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-12-07-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, On a similar subject, you once had a very bad run-in when you claimed that KLIK would dismiss civil servants and then continue to employ them as public workers. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Why did I run into a hole? No, it's not.]] And it turns out that the opposite is true that 800 civil servants have become civil servants. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I have proof!]] Looks like he's also trying to set off this previously untrue accusation in this new area. I wouldn't even talk about it, Madam President, that you are talking about a public servant's wage bill, and that you are talking about cutting down wages. In the social sphere, people work according to public employees' payroll, and you're saying that there's going to be a downtime here. You, too, I hope you know that, Madam honourable Member, and for the sake of rhetoric, you have forgotten this knowledge, that according to the payroll, everyone will receive their salary automatically, that there is nothing to be held down from this; there is no way to do that. What we are offering here is a legal opportunity to employ social workers who are earning, who also receive sectoral wage allowances and wage supplements, who are not included in the basic number, i.e. social caregivers who are not in employment, so it is completely different from what others are doing there, and I say it does not count into the professional requirements. We have indeed chosen home care for two parts, social assistance and personal care, but neither do you, honourable Member, think that we should require a medical degree in order to give up a lottery ticket or wash a window. This may be the idea of the LMP, but we believe that there are people who really need a caregiver with professional qualifications, this is the increased category of home assistance [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] but there are some, dog walking or other tasks [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The ones that are given to these people, which do not require a medical degree. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy: "Do the books move the world forward? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2015-12-07-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The government constantly communicates with itself that it is a great friend of culture and that it is being supported by investments and various elements of visual politics. However, this is not the reality, especially when it comes to the vulnerable situation and the professional impossibility of the Hungarian book profession. Few of the representatives who are sitting here may know that the liquidity situation of the publishers is greatly exacerbated by the fact that, in the absence of any specific legislation, only a previous ministerial resolution has been adopted in order to challenge the enforcement of printing costs in the calculation of the business tax. Thus, publishers pay trade tax on their turnover, while the printing works involved may take paper costs into account and traders may consider the value of the goods purchased from publishers as a taxable item. It is extremely disturbing in the accounting of publishers, in determining their tax obligations, that there are two resolutions at the same time for the certification of printing costs. An APEH statement dated 6 July 2004 as an internal professional circular states that the printing works are selling goods to the publisher, and the certificate is the printing invoice. This is contrary to Article 78 of the Accounting Act. Article 518/2010, issued with reference to paragraph 3 of the Act. The Ministry of Finance resolution, according to which the printing activity can be regarded as a service used and therefore cannot be deducted as a material cost from the calculation of the business tax on publishers. This is an unacceptable practice that endangers the fundamental existence of the publishing profession. If this does not change as a matter of urgency, all publishers can go bankrupt because of the penalties they are facing. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State what concrete steps they intend to take to eliminate the completely absurd situation and to save Hungarian publishing companies with a long history and significant intellectual value. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-07-100	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-12-07-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If something is not a political issue, I believe that the establishment of the basis for the local business tax is certainly not. And this has been the case so far, since there has essentially been no change in this matter since the publication of the local business tax law. The regulation is clear and there is no lack of legislation on this issue. All you have to do is read two different laws. One of the laws is the VAT law and the position on it, a reference to what you said in 2004 is also correct, and the accounting law - as it regulates the basis for local business tax - is quite clear on this issue. I think that the president of the Association of Hungarian Publishers and Booksellers should read these laws, or at least those of his experts, and that the declaration of business tax should be based on this, as has been the case for 20 years. If you did that, then I think that you would not mention political statements and not some kind of risk of bankruptcy with regard to publishers, but a completely clear settlement, which is also appropriate for municipal tax authorities. By the way, I suggest to this gentleman that if he has a problem with a tax decision, a municipal tax decision, he should choose the means of redress rather than attack politics because there is a legal failure. There is no legal lack of regulation, and I also suggest that this issue should remain a professional issue and not a political issue. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-102	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Justice:. When can Hungarian citizens who have their address in Hungary finally vote in a letter? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2015-12-07-103	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Emigration has been growing for eight years, especially in the youth age group. According to some estimates, more than half a million Hungarian citizens already live abroad. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarians living abroad did not migrate in good spirits, not out of desire for adventure, but because they were forced to do so by their living and existential circumstances. At the same time, they also care about the fate of the country, they also want to be involved in Hungarian politics, which is also the right of them. In practice, however, they do not have the opportunity to do so. In the experience of the last elections, it is clear that the electoral legislation currently in force raises serious obstacles to the equal exercise of suffrage. A voter with a Hungarian address can only cast his vote abroad at the foreign representations or consulate at the cost of serious financial and temporal burdens. This greatly deters them from voting. This was reflected in the extremely low electoral activity. In Britain, it is estimated that 300 thousand Hungarians work, yet the last parliamentary elections were attended by 5373 voters. The rates in other countries are similar. There are hundreds of thousands of voters with home addresses abroad who do not currently have the opportunity to vote by post. We find this discrimination unacceptable, and there are many international examples for you to extend the vote in the letter. In these countries, it is possible to vote by post for foreign nationals, such as Italy, France, Germany and many other countries. Dear Secretary of State, The question is whether the government is afraid of the verdict of the votes of foreign nationals, or perhaps you are not interested in their fate at all. It is time for us to be clear on this issue. Extending the vote in the letter is only a matter of will. The international examples stand before us, and in recent years we have also seen that what you really wanted has been passed through. On this basis, I ask Mr Secretary of State when they will make the necessary amendments and allow the postal voting to be made to our emigrated countrymen. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.30]]
u2015-12-07-104	Thank you very much. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2015-12-07-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Parliament follows the Finnish legislation on this issue. The distinction between Hungarian citizens who have a Hungarian address and do not have a Hungarian residence abroad is justified in terms of the way in which the vote is taken, because if all voters are allowed to vote in the letter, the law may give them the opportunity to be abused. The residence of voters abroad on the day of the vote cannot be verified, there cannot be a legal guarantee that allows this to happen. [[Interview in Jobbik's ranks: How can it be in Romania?]] The reason for the legislation in force was therefore to realise that in this case it would be easy for those who do not reside abroad on the day of the vote to abuse this voting method, since we cannot carry out the control on this, as I said. The reason for the discrimination is that, according to the consistent practice of the Constitutional Court, it is only possible to distinguish between voters who form a homogeneous group. Such a homogeneous group is made up of citizens residing or not in Hungary. If the National Assembly gives voters with a Hungarian address but staying abroad on the day of the vote the possibility of voting in the letter, in this case it is necessary to ensure that they can exercise their right to vote even if they are still in the country before the day of the vote, so that in the case of a letter vote they should also be able to give up their vote at home. The possibility of abuse in a relatively closed community of voters living within the country is more likely to arise than that of voters living abroad who live scattered around the world. Therefore, when the legislation in force was drawn up, Parliament rejected the possibility for voters with a title to vote in a letter and did not change the legislation that has been in force since 2004. The Venice Commission takes the view that this regulation is acceptable. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will move on to the item on the agenda for immediate questions and answers. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The poor country is a stolen country, or whose relative can we respect behind the legislative amendments? It's an address. In response, the Prime Minister appointed Minister Antal Rogán to perform an urgent public task. I ask Mr Tamás Harangozó, if he accepts the person of the response.
u2015-12-07-107	Mr President, I still hope the Prime Minister will be brave enough to answer my question, because my question is for him personally.
u2015-12-07-108	Then you will not accept Minister Antal Rogán, whom you have appointed to answer. Thank you very much. We're moving on. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can the papals count on you, Prime Minister?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Antal Rogán to respond to his urgent public mission. I will ask Mr Zoltán Gőgös if he will accept the person of the response.
u2015-12-07-109	Thank you, Mr President, no, because a year and a half ago we started a polemic in this, and I would like to continue with the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Lukács, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Pay to the People." Mr Zoltán Lukács has the floor.
u2015-12-07-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear House, For some time now, the unparalleled situation in the country is that hundreds of thousands of civil servants have not earned their wages in time. I think that this has not been the case in recent decades, that a government has been so busy building a theft-based governance that they have forgotten to pay public servants. Hundreds of thousands of people were waiting for their pay in health care, law enforcement, offices, and they didn't get it. I think that this is unprecedented, and the people responsible for this must be sought. I ask the Minister who are responsible for the inability of hundreds of thousands of civil servants in Hungary to expect their salaries. Whose pocket is the interest on unpaid payments flowing into? Are the responsible members of the government taking responsibility for this? Also, in the wallets belonging to it, have they found out the responsibility, and how long will the responsibility of those responsible be delayed? I would also like to ask whether these wages would have been so late even if, let's say, the managers of the responsible wallets would have had to face their own assets for these matters. Dear Minister, These families don't stand for a week or two without their salary. Unfortunately, these families live in Hungary today from one salary to another, and you have caused enormous confusion and difficulty for these families by being unable to do the simple task of paying these civil servants' salaries in time. I ask that this be replaced immediately, and I also ask that those responsible be identified, and that they take responsibility for this mistake. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga.
u2015-12-07-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I agree with you, of course, that everyone should receive a fair wage, preferably in compliance with the relevant legislation, by the deadline. The Treasury has done this work in recent years, and it will continue to do so in the future. Let me inform you that in a month or so, according to the latest figures, 849 270 people's salaries will be accounted for together with institutions in the Treasury. The Treasury belongs to 12 895 institutions, which have to be accounted for in part. I think in order to understand the problem you have raised, we have to start from here. The Treasury system has been unchanged since 2001. In recent years, we have launched a development that will adapt this accounting system to an IT system that meets the requirements of age. This changeover took place in November. Between 5 and 16 November, this transition took place. Accordingly, the Treasury accounted for the monthly wages of November at the end of the month, and these files were sent to this more than 12,000 institutions by 2 December. From this moment on, it is up to the institutions to determine the rate at which payments are made. Obviously, a follow-up check is carried out in this file, but when that happens, the reference must be made. When the news you raised came out on Friday, I immediately arranged for the Treasury to examine every single announcement. On this basis, I would like to inform this House that, starting from Friday to this morning, 21 notifications have been made, 15 of these 21 announcements have been evaluable. Members of the Treasury have looked at the essence of these 15 announcements. In the case of KLIK, it happened that the employees received their money today because of a later accounting, but otherwise in each institution the payment was made for the necessary deadlines. I would like to ask Congressman to take note of my information. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-114	Thank you very much. The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2015-12-07-115	Mr. Secretary, the fact that out of hundreds of thousands of people who have suffered from you, 21 people have turned to you shows your confidence in the public sector. You must understand, Minister, that you are asking me for understanding; you can ask me for understanding, but these families are in an extremely difficult situation today. These families can't survive a week or two without their pay, especially before the holidays. These families need the money to pay the child's kindergarten to pay for the meal, to pay the telephone bill, or to pay the electric bill. If they do not do so, they will be specifically harmed as they will also have to pay interest on late payment. Once again, I ask you to pay attention, on the one hand, to make sure that those modifications don't work so well that people don't get paid, just work as badly as they did when they got paid. I would also like to ask that we also want to see those responsible and their accountability. Thank you very much. [[13.40]]
u2015-12-07-116	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2015-12-07-117	Honourable Congressman, The way I see it, you didn't listen to my answer, so I'm gonna have to repeat it to you. What came to us, and what doesn't work on the Treasury, I'll stress it again, but on the institutions, we've had them investigated. In these institutions, payments have been transferred. Where we have seen such a problem, it is the KLIK system, and there are some institutions where payments are made on December 10th instead of December 5th. So what I can tell you is that the rumor you've been doing so far, stop. It's an "A" in the news, it's excellent, but it's not really what you've been testing for in the last few days. People get paid. [[Noise from the benches of MSZP. Zoltán Lukács: They didn't get it! András Tállai: They got it! You can't talk. Bullshit!]] We're working with the Treasury to correct any technical problems. I'm asking you, once again, to stop spreading rumors. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-07-118	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, Mr. Head of Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: What makes the Prime Minister's environment rich? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Antal Rogán to respond. I'll ask him if he'll accept the response.
u2015-12-07-119	The offer is tempting, but I started this debate with the Prime Minister, and I would like to continue with him. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-07-120	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Is it worth any price for you to serve your friends? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Antal Rogán to respond. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-12-07-121	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr President, but given the importance of the matter, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-07-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How long will you last?" It's an address. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the... - [[For signal:]] Yes, there's a long text here, but I'm not obliged to read it. [[Defiance.]] The Prime Minister asked Minister Antal Rogán to respond. I'll ask him if he'll accept the response.
u2015-12-07-123	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-07-124	Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Here comes the part!]] Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.. Why does Viktor Orbán's friends always take the greasy public and municipal shops? What chance did this happen? It's an address. The Prime Minister is on his way... [[Viktor Orbán enters the Chamber.]] - the next thing you know, he's already in. So I give the floor to Congressman János Volner to ask your question.
u2015-12-07-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister! We would have preferred that several representatives of Jobbik, who addressed your question, could have called on the Prime Minister, but I am glad at least that I succeeded. Prime Minister! We have Fidesz friends and acquaintances, and many of them, by the way, have since become Jobbik voters. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Say three!]] However, you can see a tendency that people who are very fond of you, who respect you very much, respect you, tell you that, yes, they also regularly read the news of the media that says that various Fidesz politicians, friends of fidesz politicians, family members, or even economic interests are constantly getting rich somehow from the fact that they are able to conclude very good, highly profitable contracts with the state or the local authorities. When we confront these people with the fact that these processes are taking place at government level, they say on a regular basis that, obviously, the Prime Minister doesn't know about these things, because everywhere there are politicians who abuse their power, they fill their own pockets or their friends' pockets, but the Prime Minister doesn't know about it. When Gábor Vona asked the Prime Minister here recently in Parliament that the people who work in your immediate environment and have access to an extremely large amount in a similar way, billionaires - Tibor Garancsi Lőrinc Mészáros, Andy Vajna [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] And could we continue - would people you meet regularly have a good relationship with regularly, would you set your hands on fire for them? I am also asking the Prime Minister here, in public, whether this, whether these people are constantly coming out of your immediate environment, by chance, or if there is any help in it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-07-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-12-07-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I repeat to my fellow Member the offer that I have made before, but he has not made much use of it at this level, as you speak of the relationship between the economy and politics, so it is only an accusation that can be understood what he is saying. Please respectfully, a specific case, a specific case, a specific infringement, a specific abuse, and the bodies authorised by the State will all be evaluated and investigated. [[Dr. Tamás Bell: That's it!]] My position on this matter is well-known. I don't do business; I don't allow the government's decision to be influenced by private business interests. You're handling business here in Parliament, you're bringing it here for some mysterious reason. There's obviously a political reason for this. They are partly encouraged to do so if [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Yikes!]] I can return your accusations. I think that the government can and should be asked to make a decision in every particular case in the interests of the Hungarian people. We take on this responsibility; we take on this moral standard; we take on this requirement, and we will continue to do so in the future. All other general considerations should at best be seen as party-politically motivated accusations. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-07-128	Thank you, Prime Minister. A rejoinder shall be given to the Member.
u2015-12-07-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister! I think that you could have seen more concrete things, too, if you had listened to these questions not in front of the curtain, but came into the Chamber and gave Jobbik's representatives the opportunity to ask these specific questions. [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties:]] However, I see one thing, Prime Minister, that you have not responded again, although the public, I believe, is right to expect an answer, and I would add that the people who respect you are also rightly waiting for an answer to tell you, Prime Minister, why these people are constantly coming out of your immediate environment. Why is it that the billionaires linked to Fidesz practically make their fortune, their billions, by making good deals with the state or the local governments that are under Fidesz leadership? Because, Prime Minister, this cannot be the key to the Hungarian economic recovery, the direct environment of the Prime Minister with the state and with the local governments. This is not going to happen, it will become a banana republic in Central Europe, not Hungarian [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Ascension. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-07-130	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2015-12-07-131	These are serious assumptions, Mr Vice-President. All I would like to say to you in return is that you were not even in government - you have already managed to get involved in the country's most serious party financing corruption case, which has become famous as Béla Kovács. On the other hand, if anyone is, you know perfectly well that there is a man in your faction who is connected to the largest company cemetery in the country. They haven't even steered yet. They're already up to their necks in these cases. They did a unique feat. What if they even steer? So I'm asking you to be more careful, to be specific. If you have an objection, a suggestion, an offence, you are aware of, in the right form, and in the right place. And by the way, I am always at your disposal, as otherwise required by the laws and regulations. That's why I'm glad I could answer you now. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-07-132	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Before I ask the next immediate question, I will ask the two representatives of the LMP who will question you, Congressman Sallai Benedek or Erzsébet Schmuck.... - I don't see him. [[On the sign of Sallai R. Benedek:]] Good. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Schmuck Elizabeth [[There's grumbles in the room.]] Members of the LMP wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, During the Fidesz administration, will the Hungarian land fall into foreign hands? It's an address. Congressman Sallai Benedek has the floor. [[György Balla: As usual!]] [[13.50]]
u2015-12-07-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As Director Balla has asked, I try to speak in a way that he understands. Accordingly, I would like to ask the Prime Minister with respect that he may have been aware that many of us have serious concerns about the sale of Hungarian agricultural land. I'd like to hear your opinion on some of the allegations. Here's the statement. 1. Let's tell the small farmers to remember that in 97 we were only able to prevent the Hungarian agricultural land from being handed over by the then MSZP-SZDSZ government by collecting 200,000 signatures. This danger is again knocking on the farmers' door today. There is virtually no one who does not agree that we need the constitutional protection of national wealth, including Hungarian soil and water resources. The Hungarians told Hungary that Hungary was not for sale, louder than ever before. The question of the increase in agricultural land owned by the Hungarian State is a national interest, which is implemented in the Land Traffic Act for the population of the countryside and for the protection of the agricultural land. Therefore, we must insist on these provisions of the Land Traffic Act, as this will be the means to expand the state's wealth so that we can bring development and growth to the Hungarian countryside. And finally, the last one is: I would like to reassure you that the future of the Hungarian land is not dependent on the decision to be made in Brussels, it is only up to us, and I can tell you that you can be sure that, as long as you are on the Fidesz government and my work is there, foreigners in Hungary, whatever they decide in Brussels, will never buy land here. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With respect to these four statements, I would ask what the Prime Minister's opinion is, whether or not he agrees with these statements. I look forward to your reply on this matter with respect. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-134	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-12-07-135	I'm holding on to all my claims. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-136	Thank you. The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2015-12-07-137	I accept that with thanks. I would like to inform the Prime Minister that one of the statements was mine, and only three were yours. [[Delight and applause in the lines of the LMP.]] But I'm glad you're holding that, too. [[Rumors and interruptions from Fidesz: He said he was holding his own! It's a lot of noise.]] Accordingly, if we agree to withdraw sales efforts, I am very, very happy for him, and I would certainly ask that the government act accordingly, as Hungary was not in danger in this way until now the land privatisation was started by the government. If you agree with all the statements, please stop the land privatisation, because, as you can see, you have failed fundamentally and for your purposes, small farmers are unable to take part in any substantial part, the auctions are not public. [[Uproar and interruptions from the ranks of Fidesz: Public! How can they not be public?]] basically foreigners [[Grumbles and interrogations from the ranks of Fidesz: It's not true!]] Basically, people in the Member States can obtain land and therefore cannot achieve their objectives. I would respectfully await your decision to maintain your claim on this matter. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-138	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2015-12-07-139	Allow me to just stand by my position, so we'll keep every statement we make in the field. As far as the two facts you've told me are concerned, I have the opposite information. You first claim that the auctions are not public. As far as we know, they're public. Secondly, it says that small and medium-sized farmers do not have access to the land. The numbers show that they are, because the winners of the auctions are primarily them. As far as foreign affairs are concerned, there are, no more than nine citizens who have won the auction, but that doesn't mean they can buy the land. Let's talk about this when the whole process is over. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-140	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How much money did the Socialists withdraw from Csillebérc? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman Sándor Kovács.
u2015-12-07-141	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As is known, the Metropolitan Court of Justice made a point on a regime change case on November 4, because the stolen KISZ property was found that the Csillebérc donated to the Association of Hungarian Pioneers was not a gift, because there was no one to give gifts, because two months after the end of the KISZ, the new form disguised as Demis, which was already marked by the names of Ferenc Gyurcsány and László Varju, tried to do so as successor. The court ruled that it wasn't. But it's interesting in this case that in 2004 the court suspended the lawsuit and reopened it only in 2011. So it's really weird. Based on all this, I think it is questionable how Rácz, let's say the main pioneer, could sell to his cousin the 95 million-dollar hunting house - about which he had a 95 million-dollar valuation at that time - 50 percent for a kft., in which he owned 50 percent of his cousin, the other 50 percent died from China, on whose part László Varju's wife, László Varju's wife, was in charge of handling transactions and taking over envelopes in such a case. It is interesting that the KISZ - not in existence - even took out loans from the then state OTP, and this was not repaid. Secretary of State, this has generated between 170 million and 200 million forints a year for the company who used this pioneer camp illegally. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Please answer the question of how much skin has been removed. [[The president's ringing again.]] how this valuable fortune was looted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-142	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-12-07-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, To the basic question of how much money was taken out of the Socialists' Chillebérc: about what they touched, we can see that was the intention. We know the old saying that the pioneer doesn't steal, he does. I think it's the same with the camp at Csillebérc. You said yourself that you came to the Association of Hungarian Pioneers under extremely suspicious circumstances: the last day the land office registered it when it could be registered in this way; an organization that had not existed for two months gave it to the pioneering association; and for 25 years, the Hungarian court was wrongfully declaring that it was used illegally by the Association of Hungarian Pioneers in violation of the laws. One question is how much of this was taken from the socialists - but from whom? For 25 years, the Csillebérc Pioneer Camp would provide or would have been an opportunity for the recreation of 1200-1500 children, compared to which it was offered as a paying service to team builders, offered for bachelor parties, offered as accommodation, and even offered as a free accommodation to socialist representatives, while the socialists accepted the compensation for the accommodation. We know the case of István Nyakó in relation to their cost of more than HUF 30 million. Nóra Nagy, former member of the Hungarian Socialist Party's presidency, former representative of the Parliament, leads the operating company until recently, which produces between HUF 170 million and HUF 210 million each year from the Csillebérc camp, and who knows how many more socialist background bases this is, whether it is a free holiday, because when the socialists were in power in Budapest and nationwide, he gave free BKV buses to allow socialist representatives to take free children from their own constituency. The value of this is the task of the following months or years to assess what this meant, and why not the Hungarian children, but the politicians linked to the socialists, enjoyed the benefit of the Camp Csillebérc for 25 years illegally. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-144	Thank you very much. Congressman Sándor Kovács has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-12-07-145	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, I think that if we multiply these 25 years by this 200 million per year, this is more than HUF 5 billion. If we add this to the abovementioned loan from OTP, its interest and non-refundable obligation, whether the state wants to deal with the recovery of this money, whether the Neck couple, as we have heard, have bent down to the BKV for every penny, asked for buses, won 10 million for the children's recreation, and instead had the services on a market basis. So summa summarum, this revenue of more than HUF 5 billion, which enriched them, is the task of the state to try to recover it, and it is indeed used for the recreation of the children, the 1200-1500 children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2015-12-07-146	Thank you, Congressman. You have a chance to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-147	Thank you very much. The court legally returned the camp to Hungarian young people through the Hungarian state, but it is necessary that the socialist politicians there give it back in kind and that Hungarian young people can enjoy it as soon as possible. We know how the Socialists there treated the public wealth, the former community wealth entrusted to them, we know that the hunting house you said was sold for a value of HUF 95 million for HUF 14.2 million, and then there was a criminal case and a final conviction. We know that the whole area was sold in 2000, not just the corner, not just the hunting house. We know that if these had failed, if domestic sales had failed, even if the sale of offshore property had failed, a third way of circumventing public property was invented: they included in the ground rules of the pioneer association that if the pioneer alliance had ceased, this 4.5-acre property would have to be carried by a foundation, a foundation headed by the former party director of the MSZP. That's how the socialists wanted to turn public property into private property for free. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. Our joint responsibility is to protect vulnerable consumers, especially pensioners. What does the government do to keep people from being fooled at the fairs? It's an address. The Minister answered János Fónagy...? Sorry, Minister Miklós Seszták is present, he will answer. You have the floor, Congressman Vejkey.
u2015-12-07-149	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, In recent years, there has been a great deal of talk about the sales of goods linked to the display of goods. Typically, these display shows include older people, pensioners. Unfortunately, many companies have been specifically set up to mislead and harm such vulnerable customers. The results of the Consumer Protection Authority's investigation in 2013-2014 show that more than 60 percent of the cases have been committed by some kind of infringement. More than 50 percent of the presentations under investigation were commercial practices considered unfair. On 1 December 2015, the Parliament adopted the bill submitted by the Members of the Parliament of KDNP, which narrows down the operation of companies carrying out such activities. The provisions aim at ensuring that companies selling products cannot disappear, consumers can reach them even after buying and customers can exercise their right of withdrawal in practice. In the future, it will be prohibited to provide financial services in the supply of goods linked to the presentation of goods. The practice showed that consumers generally did not have sufficient financial power to buy consumer goods offered at product presentations, so the organisers also provided them with consumer loans. In the context of the above, I ask, Minister, what does the Government expect from applying in practice the strict provisions of the law submitted and adopted by the Members of the Parliament of the KDNP? Furthermore, is the Consumer Protection Authority planning an investigation specifically to verify the sales of goods linked to the presentation of goods? I look forward to your reply, Minister. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-150	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Seszták.
u2015-12-07-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Congressman! Parliament! This year, Parliament adopted two laws which seek to influence the subject raised by the Member in a positive direction. One is the bill already adopted on 1 December. Allow me to highlight three elements by which we will certainly try to reduce the companies already organised to deceive unsuspecting pensioners in the most fraudulent way. The first is that it will be mandatory to maintain customer service seven days a week, and one of these will be a day when such a business will be obliged to maintain customer service in the afternoon and in the evening. By doing so, we want to ensure that at any time anyone who wishes to withdraw from the legal transaction can do so, since most of the time they have been hiding and disappearing, they have not been able to reach these businesses. Secondly, there will be a ban on the provision of gifts and discounts related to the sale of goods linked to the presentation of goods, and these will not be advertised in free newspapers. And besides what you mentioned, you can't lend credit to these products sold at the shows. In addition, there is one other interesting thing: there is a need to ensure that participants travel home even if they have not purchased. I mean, most of the time they said that if you didn't buy, you couldn't go home, so they forced the pensioners into it. He asked what consumer protection would do. Thank God, our chance by law now to prevent these businesses from getting out of the procedures of the Consumer Protection Authority, made it mandatory to participate in the conciliation board procedure, and I can definitely say that in 2016 serious consumer protection procedures can be launched. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-152	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Vejkey.
u2015-12-07-153	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Thank you for your reply. Unfortunately, in the course of sales at the display of goods, infringements are indeed very extensive, along with commercial practices that are considered unfair. That is why it was necessary to tighten up the relevant law twice, as Minister said, most recently in December, because, due to the specific nature of the transaction, consumers required increased protection, which is now excellently guaranteed not only by law but also from the side of practice in implementation. Thank you again, Minister, for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-154	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute chance to rejoinder, Minister.
u2015-12-07-155	Thank you again for the floor. I would like to draw everyone's attention to one thing, especially those who may have fallen among their relatives. It is important that the entry into force is 1 January 2016. It is Christmas, and we know that such shows are increasing, we ask that we pay attention to our relatives so that our relatives and acquaintances do not fall into the web of violent organizers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-156	Thank you, Minister Sesztas. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, a representative of the LMP, Group Leader, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How do you do that? It's an address. Congressman András Schiffer has the floor.
u2015-12-07-157	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, This year, on 26 May, I asked you an immediate question about the Elios case, and I drew your attention to the fact that LMP also filed a criminal complaint in the case because this LED-lamp public procurement party had the same interest on the tender side, on the applicant's side, that it was also involved on the contracting side. And I have also told you that we are also proposing legislation to eliminate this conflict of interest, so that the family members of state leaders, mayors, decision makers and critics are not allowed to apply for public funds. You replied that you fully agreed with our proposals and said that we should submit this to the new Public Procurement Act. This has been done, and a small part of our proposals have also been included in the new Public Procurement Act, which is so much - that the circles of interests have not been examined as proposed by the LMP, going back three years, but so much has been included - that the relatives of state leaders are no longer allowed to apply for public procurement. This rule may have lived for a month and a half, until last week, with rather shady tricks, in relation to Lex Tállai, this circle was narrowed down to family members living in the common household. Mr. Prime Minister, Are you initiating, as promised in May, a more stringent conflict of interest for political leaders and decision-makers? Prime Minister, I believe you willingly believe that you have never called anyone off so to speak for your own relative, but we are living in a country where this is not necessary. The fact is, we live in a country where, for example, the last time I was in Kisvárda, it turned out that even Santa Claus was one of Miklós Seszták's men. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: For Miklós! He said there's a lot of clarity.]] In such a country, there is a need for strict conflict of interest rules, so I would ask whether the Prime Minister supports the LMP's original proposal as promised in May. Thank you. [[14.10]]
u2015-12-07-158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-12-07-159	It is only on the margin of my answer that you have not been telling the truth about your previous immediate question, and I am forced to repeat that statement. As far as this issue is concerned, let us set out where we are on the issue of public procurement. Today we are talking about public procurement in Hungary. Secondly, the owners of companies must be discovered. Three: everyone can see who started and who won the public procurement. Fourthly, the Public Procurement Act is the strictest public procurement regulation in Europe, more stringent than any of the previous ones that were in force in Hungary - I recommend this to the socialists, because I see that they will have such a question for me - and it is more stringent because it covers a wider circle, covers more state leaders than ever before. That's what we're doing today. So, in addition to all the criticisms that we would like to hear, appreciate and deal with, I would like to note that this is the case today. Moreover, the current final regulation you have just referred to has resulted in a regulatory system that is enforceable and realistic. It is lifelike because it says that a person is responsible for the people he lives with in a household and can be observed because the circle of family members living in a household is clear, so it is clear how to comply with the law. The previous regulation was neither enforceable nor realistic. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-160	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Andras Schiffer in return.
u2015-12-07-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, First of all, I'd like to know which of my statements wasn't true in May. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] But I'd like to start by saying who's a relative, it's been pretty elaborate in the Civil Code for at least half a century, so you shouldn't be afraid of such problems. Prime Minister, public procurement in Hungary, really? Then why hide from the proposal so that all procurement documents can be accessed and easily searched after the deadline has passed? We had a demand for it, and it was rejected. He says the owners need to be explored. Excellent. Then why is LMP's proposal to clean the offshore knights out of the national economy and not even to have offshore companies in the sub-contracting net, not to mention settlement bonds. But something else happened last week, Prime Minister. At the NAV Act, the propertyisation investigation was narrowed down. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the scope of its order. My question is whether the Prime Minister supports the proposal of the LMP to have a mandatory propertyisation investigation for politicians. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-162	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
u2015-12-07-163	It's an old debate. It's a matter of wealth. I have never sympathised with the confusion that prevails on this issue in Hungary. Perhaps the luckiest thing would be to choose a decent democracy, say Germany, and take over the rules that exist here instead of the confusion here and instead of the political cacophony that prevails in this country. I think that what is appropriate to the Austrians or the Germans, developed system, could really take it the way it is, the Hungarian Parliament could, once and for all, put an end to this debate, but we will see if there will be enough initiative. Since you have made your contribution quite clearly personal, I would like to ask that if any of my family members start public procurement, you should be kind enough to say so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-164	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, László Pósán, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Who does not have a 27 percent wage increase? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. Do you accept the identity of the responder? Congressman says yes. Mr László Pósán has the floor.
u2015-12-07-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As with all sectors of society, domestic higher education has suffered a drastic decline in incomes during Balliberal governance, which has led to a further increase in the fall in the level of European graduates' wages. Following public education workers, health workers, law enforcement workers or workers in the social sector, the government and Parliament have now decided to make a wage increase in higher education as well. This is a significant increase in guaranteed wages by 15+5+5 per cent in three stages. Of course, the scale of the increase is not a mere decision, but depends on the extent to which the Hungarian economy is able to grow, because the civilian government does not want to fall into the trap in which the socialists once led the country to finance expenditure on credit that the domestic economy could not afford. The improved economic conditions and the improved management of higher education through the introduction of the chancellor system for the next three years are expected to allow for a certain increase of 15+5+5 per cent. For many years, however, some of the teachers who have been desperate for the same wages do not now welcome the fact of a wage increase, but collect signatures, few speak of the scale of the increase and injustice. It is difficult to say why some instructors now came to this idea and why not during the stagnation of wages during the socialist period; why not during the period of debt of universities and colleges during the contracts for improvements in PPP constructions; why not when it was made public that some rectors' salaries were up to 5-6 million a month during the socialist governance. It was the civil government that stopped it. Dear Secretary of State, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In relation to higher education wage increases, how much of this dissatisfaction seems justified, and how much of this is the current hack campaign that can be linked to the teaching network? Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-166	Thank you, Congressman Pósan. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-12-07-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we can all be happy that we can now talk about wage increases in higher education for people working in public education, health workers, law enforcement workers and those working in lower-level administration in government offices. This proves that Hungarian reforms are working and that there is now an economic surplus in Hungary that generates budgetary revenue, from which, for example, higher education workers can benefit. Indeed, as you said, it is surprising that those who did not object to wage cuts, who did not have a voice when they took the 13th month's salary, are now less likely to do so in the case of a 27-percent wage increase. I believe that this is a very small minority, and that, of course, those working in higher education in general are happy about this, as everyone is, with all wage increases. Next year it will be 15 percent, then the next year it will be 5 percent and again 5 percent, which will allow higher education workers to take more home. They deserve this not only because of their work, their extra work, but also because today the financial situation of universities is much more stable. The arrival of Chancellors to universities has created much greater financial security. The university's debt, its outstanding debt, dropped from HUF 20.5 billion - which was a year and a half ago when the chancellors arrived - to a fraction, now less than HUF 8 billion, so less than HUF 20,5 billion is what is debt, while the reserve cash has increased to several times three times in universities and colleges. This has created the other foot that this wage increase can be achieved, as it is much easier and safer to start a long-term wage increase programme in a transformed structure, an organization with better wealth management. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What this government has done. This was also important, since the teaching career apparently had a draining effect in the case of teachers and assistant professors, and many returned to high school teachers instead of acting as teachers or assistant professors in higher education. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-07-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman László Pósán has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-12-07-169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I think we agree on a lot of things, and I'd rather just carry on with this thought. At a time when the issue of wage increases is raised for a reason, for no reason, right or wrongfully, but with certain doubts or questions, it is worth drawing attention to another important aspect, namely the fact that the salary is guaranteed in higher education, which does not mean that it is possible not to deviate upwards. In many institutions, however, there have been cases and there are examples of higher wages and higher benefits that have been found up and up. [[14.20]] I think that academic autonomy, which is also enshrined in the Fundamental Law, does make it possible - and I would like to believe that in the future it will also be used by the staff and teachers of higher education institutions - to have clear and transparent rules within the institutions that say that institutions can use resources from their own incomes, which are also a non-negligible item, for additional benefits. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-170	Thank you. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2015-12-07-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Since you know higher education very well from the inside, you said that what is indeed the practice is that wages, or rather, I would say that specific incomes are, of course, well above what is in the public employment pay table. It is obviously due to different research projects, EU projects and others, that they earn more in higher education than they do in a given grade. As far as the internal rates of wage increases are concerned, it is also important to increase the income of teachers and assistant professors to a greater extent, as they are the replacement of professors and professors. This is why it is important that not only young people with good skills or scientific skills appear in the market, but also that universities receive higher quality supplies. Since the need for university training is constant in Hungary, it has been established and does not decrease, despite what the opposition is saying, it is important that they become quality teachers. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question with the title "The Appreciation of Pensioners." Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2015-12-07-173	Yeah.
u2015-12-07-174	Congressman says yes. Thank you. Mr Attila Móring has the floor.
u2015-12-07-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, pension and other age contributions affect the lives of some 3 million people from month to month. Moral and material respect for older people is of general social interest, and it is also our duty to extend their opportunities. According to Hungary's Fundamental Law, the Hungarian state rightly protects the elderly, so their financial care must be a very important issue here in Parliament as well. I think that the government will meet all of us's legitimate expectations by raising pensions above current inflation. As a reminder, consumer prices decreased on average by 0.2 per cent in 2014 compared to the previous year and a 1.8 per cent pension increase in January 2015. As a result, we have seen that from this year on, political rehabilitation benefits will rise to the same level as the pension increase at the time. And if we look back at the period 2010-2014, we can see that the pension policy of the second Orbán government has resulted in an overall increase in the purchasing value of pensions of more than 6 percent. During this period, we introduced women's retirement pensions, which can be claimed on the basis of 40 years of entitlement, which recognises and evaluates the multiple pressures of women and their special role in society. The number of persons receiving a pension based on 40 years' eligibility period has exceeded 151 thousand persons since the 2011 introduction until the end of October 2015. Dear Secretary of State, Thanks to the measures taken by the Hungarian government, we managed to keep pension benefits in a stable framework in Hungary in the difficult period following the 2008 crisis. In the light of the economic results of the past period and the extremely favourable inflation figures, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how much pension increases the elderly can expect at the beginning of next year, and how much this will preserve the purchasing value of pensions. I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-176	Thank you, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-12-07-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Next year's pension increase will reach 1.6 percent. If we look at the last five years, we can say that pensions in Hungary have increased to such an extent that not only the value of pensions, which the civil government promised in 2010, has not only been kept, but now the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 8.6 percent. The nominal value itself, so the number is 21.1 percent higher, but if I deduct the amount of the loss of money from it and look at the pensioner's purchasing power alone, then the rate of the pension increase is 8.6 percent in a five-year perspective. This means that this government has returned more than the Socialists had taken away at the time, as the amount of pension that increased the value of pensions is higher than a month, so Fidesz-KDNP has returned the 13th month pension to pensioners year after year, month after month. Today, a pension worth more than a month is worth four or five years ago. This was a very important objective for the government, because, as you said, it affects a lot of people, over 2.6 million people, and over three and a half million benefits are affected by this decision. That is why it is important that we have managed to keep it every year. I think this 8.6 percent could be the pride of any government. Thus, the average pension value is also around HUF 110,000, and this is a net value, since they do not pay taxes and contributions, this is what pensioners get on average. As you pointed out, pension supplements for political rehabilitation have already automatically increased to the same extent as the basic pension, so they have not become second-rate as during the Bajnai and Gyurcsány governments, when, just in the former communist times, they froze the pension for political reasons and tried to save some of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-07-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Member does not require a one-minute rejoinder; therefore, I think the Secretary of State does not want a rejoinder either. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, Head of the Group, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: "How long will the carpet be humped? It's an address. The attorney general appointed Mr. István Lajtár Deputy Attorney General for his urgent public service. I would like to ask Mr. Congressman, Mr. Group leader, whether you will accept the person who is responding, or whether you will ask the Attorney General for his answer personally.
u2015-12-07-179	I accept, thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-180	Thank you very much. Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, has the floor.
u2015-12-07-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, The Law on Criminal Procedure 176. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 provides that, over two years, the Attorney General is entitled to extend the investigation. I asked for the first time on 17 November 2014 about the job of investigating the so-called NAV scandal and the traffic case, and then repeated my question on 16 March this year. Before that, my fellow Member Gábor Vágó and I asked several times about the state of criminal proceedings of both the Trafikmuty and the NAV scandal. But the thing is, the last time I got the answer that everything is going in the best order, there are serious facts, there is nothing to see here. Compared to this, the traffic investigation was launched in June 2013 and only a year later, in spring 2014 did they reach the point of even listening to those who had their personal data in an unauthorized place. I asked the question then: did the mayor of that time, the current Fidesz MP, István Horváth's computer, examine it? I also ask whether it is true that among the 34 cases that OLAF handed over to the Hungarian Supreme Prosecutor's Office the previous year, there is also a case concerning the trade and the NAV scandal. In the NAV scandal, we got to the point where András Horváth had a back search at the end of 2013, but it is still unclear whether, for example, they are investigating the termination of the Directorate of Major Affairs, in the matter of specific settlements. It's only been a year since my previous immediate question, and it's been more than two years since the investigation started. Has the Attorney General decided to extend the investigation, if not, why not, if so, what is preventing the Supreme Prosecutor from finally presenting substantive facts to the public? Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Assistant Attorney General István Lajtár. [[14.30]]
u2015-12-07-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Mr President, you have asked questions about specific matters, and if I have understood them correctly, you have already received answers to them, in line with the position of the case at that time. What I can promise to the Member here and now is that he will answer these questions in writing to the High Prosecutor's representative. In general, it should be noted that, under the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the prosecutor, the Public Prosecutor's Office, acts as a contributor to the judiciary in accordance with the laws and other legal provisions in force. This is clearly the case in the specific cases. The specific answers to Mr President's question will be given in writing. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-184	Thank you, Deputy Attorney General. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-12-07-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, However, the situation is that, for example, on 16 March 2015, I did not receive a personal reply from your boss, Mr Attorney General, and neither did you. The same saying went, as did Peter Polt, as you now promise to keep me informed in writing. That's another one of these, nothing, take it well. The thing is, it's been two and a half years in the traff case, two years since the NAV scandal bounced. The Hungarian public is justifiably curious that while there were no fewer claims than the NAV scandal, than the fact that forints of chained VAT fraud have been running out of the country for 8-10 years, while small businesses are constantly being pushed down by the tax authorities, this was watched by the Hungarian public authorities. Where's the D.A.'s office headed to unravel the truth of the green dossier exposed to the NAV scandal? Traficrats are right to wonder what takes two years [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In order to determine whether or not the application material of the trams concerned was legally included on the computer of the former mayor. Why hasn't there been any results in these cases for more than two years? Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-186	Thank you. The rejoinder is also entitled to the Deputy Attorney General.
u2015-12-07-187	Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Mr President, I can only repeat what I said: the D.A. is acting in the specific case as it is possible and duty under the specific legal conditions. For the prosecutor, legality is the only standard, it's the value that determines our work. You will receive a written answer to the question of the Member. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-07-188	Thank you, Deputy Attorney General. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. László Varju has applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of independent representative:.The last week's events. You have the floor within five minutes, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We are in the fortunate position - let us quote this - that the pro-government factions devote time and energy to trying to discredit us in cases that have been made by Members. In particular, if that Member, opposition representative, acts in a sufficiently consistent manner in the criticism of the ruling parties. I respectfully point out that, nevertheless, I will bring the factual procedures that you can follow before Parliament, because you will have a legal responsibility beyond your conscience, what you are doing in fully obvious matters. I understand that this is unpleasant for you, but I think that this should be done accordingly. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] This is the case even if the former Minister, and even the Prime Minister, are pleased to refer to the fact that a specific case is being brought to the table. The D.A.'s office is not in an easy position right now, because this is a specific case, a case where, by the way, the complaint was filed with the support of Fidesz representatives in a city with county rights. In short, if we want to sum up the headlines, it is essentially that Békéscsaba and its region have issued orders for a multipurpose local government small regional association, concluded contracts that gave us the opportunity to order a very narrow circle, family circle. Overall, we are talking about HUF 160 million in a short period of time, which gave us the opportunity and the benefit of said cases. In the first step, you tried to prevent this from being investigated, and then in the second round, a few weeks ago, no arguments could be put forward to prevent this, and therefore the municipality of the small regional association in Csaba peacefully decided that this investigation should be carried out. Until this summer, a total of HUF 116 million was made available to companies that I mentioned, for example, when they gave advice on kitchen matters for HUF 1 million. After months of scrutiny, I think it is also understandable that this was the case, because the focus of this inquiry and of this case is Gyula Vantara, a Member of the Parliament, who is sitting here today. During this period, he was the chairman of this association, and we are talking about examining this period. It is quite obvious that a number of contracts have been unlawfully concluded, which have not been concluded in proportion to their value, but have been significantly overpriced. A significant number of them have avoided the possibility of public procurement, and this is clearly against the law. This has been going on since November 2011, and at last not as long as I mentioned, last week it was also possible for the public to see this. The reason for this is that, and once again, with the support of the Fidesz MEPs, this has been decided. In essence, this decision, taken unanimously with a stay, also supports the suspicion that was made against an otherwise unknown unsub, but there was no other way to do it, but it must be clearly stated that it was possible to provide for such payments during this period. This includes, for example, the possibility of giving a person, a group, or, for example, a regular, hundreds of thousands of HUF commission at the address of making cookies or conducting Bible circles. To sum up, I must say that, given that there is a specific case of abuse here, which is, by the way, behind the government in Orbán, there is an opportunity to investigate, and I trust that justice at least in this case gives us an opportunity to learn about reality. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-07-190	Welcome, fellow Members. Mr Zsolt Becsó asked to speak after the next agenda with the title 'Glass Day in Salgótarján'. You have the floor.
u2015-12-07-191	Dear Parliament, 8 December 1956 is the day of mourning of the city of Salgótarján. Remembering heroes, looking back at past events, I think it's our duty. In 1956 the Hungarian people were satisfied with the oppression, the violation of the law, the dictatorship. More than anything else, the desire for freedom, national independence and a better life has worked hard in people. And this was not only reflected in thoughts, not only in words, but also in actions. When we remember, think of the people who have gained recognition, appreciation and glory for the Hungarian people of the county of Nógrád. Perhaps because in the autumn of 1956 we Hungarians lived in a truly uplifting, unconditional freedom for a few days. We have overcome our disappointments, our fears, our sufferings. The heroes of 1956 could tell themselves that there was a moment in their lives when they did everything they could for the truth that chained them to him forever. Ladies and gentlemen, For decades, the truth about the 1956 Revolution and the War of Independence was covered with a dark veil by red forces. The confession of the revolution was a crime. If anyone wanted to avoid persecution, they had to keep quiet. This is how the castle of lies was built in a party state that held every corner of power and held it tight until its death. However, we know that the truth can only be hidden for a period of time or hour. It took time to open our eyes. We also learned that if people are deceived daily, if they are intimidated, if they take their bread, if they auction their apartment, if they doubt the future of themselves and their children, they will eventually lose their patience. [[14.40]] He will rise and move to defend his freedom, to regain all that is his and restore his rights. That's what happened in 1956. The Communist dictatorship, on the other hand, attacked its own people, making life-threatening wounds on the body of its own nation. Dear Parliament, Salgótarján mourns on December 8, and mourns in the county of Nógrád, all the good people in the whole country share our pain with all the Democrats. The revolution and the struggle for freedom cost the lives of about four thousand Hungarian citizens. Tens of thousands of people were injured. The blood courts ruled that over 400 people were executed. The pursuit of material interests, selfishness, and desire for power have no martyrs. Martyrs are created only by true ideas, real values and communities. What is the life of a martyr who died in 1956 worth? A great deal for the Hungarian people; like everyone else who gave the most expensive for the independence, ascension and freedom of the nation. When we think of them, let us remember the great fires that we should never let go out. The most painful thing for us is that, on 8 December 1956, in Salgótarján, the crowd who demanded the release of the arrested workers' leaders received a deadly volley of response. According to some historians, 47 of them, including women and children, died at the scene and at the hospital. Other sources speak of 131 dead, and the number of wounded is estimated to be about a hundred and a half. It is difficult to find definitive data because the authorities immediately started to falsify and dispose of the facts. In Salgótaryan, the cradle of the Kádár dictatorship was rocked with bloody hands. Pál Angyal, József Balázs, József Bártfai, Imre Benkő - the list of victims begins. But how do sinners and accomplices begin? The people who shot their countrymen. The ones who ordered the volley. Those who taught secondary school students until the change of regime that the mob's counter-revolution took place in 56 and today they are masking themselves as enthusiastic supporters of democracy and the rule of law. Look out, Béla Bisku's spiritual heirs are constantly lurking around us! They landed parachutes from the party committees in the most carefully prepared terrain, and they're trying to make us believe they're born Democrats. Dear Parliament, With mercy and gratitude, let us remember the martyrs of the Salgótarján series fire. Out of courage, humanity, solidarity, they set an eternal example for posterity. They left us to take care of our nation's unity, to join forces and to act together for a happy, prosperous, democratic Hungary. Our superior officer is also that, as long as the world is around, we preserve the memory of the martyrs of the Salgótarján series fire, and preserve the pure flame of the revolution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-12-07-192	János Fuzik, Slovak national minority spokesperson for the next day's debate on the title "The Gulág" in Kesztölc. You have the floor.
u2015-12-07-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the spring of 2012, the Parliament declared 25 November as a memorial day for Hungarian political prisoners and forced workers who were taken to the Soviet Union. In this way, he wished to commemorate some 800,000 Hungarian compatriots who had been taken to the Soviet Union as prisoners of war or interns since the autumn of 1944. A week and a half ago, in the spirit of the Memorial Year, in Budapest, we remembered the more than four million prisoners, the sons and daughters of two dozen nations, who were in the working camps of the Gulag island group in Szolzsenyicini. It is indeed shocking that almost one in five, 800 thousand of them were unlucky Hungarians, and the people who went to war or were taken away from Hungary at that time, not only Hungarians, but also people of other nationalities. And that is precisely why I asked for a word, paying the utmost respect to all the victims and sufferers, which I believe includes their origins and respect for their identity. After all, their selection was also inherently ethnic. According to the decree of the Minister of Interior of the Hungarian Interim Government, I quote: The Russian military authorities use Germans who live or reside in Hungary for work. Of course, this demand has affected the Hungarian population even more than thousands of Germans, but it has not spared the Hungarian Slavs or other nationalities. When Ferenc Erdei signed his decree quoted above on 5 January 1945, the Russians were already driving - somewhere under Ercsi in the winter frost - nearly 400 Slovak men and boys from Kesztölc towards Baja. In December 1944 the Soviet siege ring closed between Dorog and Esztergom around Budapest. On the afternoon of Christmas Eve, the soldiers of the second Ukrainian front entered the village. They came to the later Liberation Street, where the first man to be greeted was shot to death in his small gate. Most of the men in Kesztölc were at home, since they worked in the coal mines in Dorog, and they were not taken to the front. Before New Year's Eve, the Russians threw out the fact that the 18-48-year-olds were given the neighboring Piliscséven certificate, called the "bumazage" to continue working in the mine. They weren't assigned to a málenki robot, they were assigned to a small job, like the deluded ones all over the country, so they didn't even bring three days of cold food with them. My father was taken out of line because I needed the tailor who sewed them up until spring. His four brothers, just like my mother's two brothers, marched with the others. Pastor József Kajmó recorded in the history of the parish in Historia Domus a few months later, and I quote that 385 men were launched from Kesztölc to be confirmed and the mine started. Their fate is known: they are treated as political prisoners. His indescribable martyrs went through suffering. The typhoid with the rash has already taken their color. The most difficult thing for survivors was that they couldn't talk about their suffering for 45 years. They were released for the first time in the months of the change of regime, and they did so, including in my three-part documentary Kesztölc chronicle. They told me how Uncle Imre Síksági climbed out of the camp's mass grave during the outbreak of dysentery in Timisoara; how Aunt Ilcsa of the South was shot next door, who, with her baby grandson, was protecting women and girls hiding in their cellars, including my mother. [[Adam Mirkóczki takes over the notary seat.]] The rest of Kesztölc was deported to the neighboring Pilischev at the end of January, and the village was completely plundered. The men who were taken began to leak back after a year and a half, and their last group arrived in Kesztölc in the summer of 1948. The others were waiting in vain for widows and orphans. Half the boys and men in Kesztölc never came back. Their names line up in long columns in the monument of the village of Liberty Square. Since 1945, just 70 years ago, on 30 December of each year, the morning Mass is given in Kesztölc for the prisoners taken away and for all the victims of the Gulag in Hungary in Kesztölc. Thank you for listening.
u2015-12-07-194	Mr Sallai R. Benedek asked to speak after the next agenda with a title on the margins of a disappearing Hungarian profession. You have the floor.
u2015-12-07-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I don't know how well it is known that our writer István Fekete couldn't get a job during the persecution of communism for a very long time, so he went to Kunszentmárton and began to teach fishing in a rural vocational school. After he had no other task, he wrote to his disciples, Fishermanship, a professional book available under the name Fisherman's name, and this is how he writes about this profession. In our country, this word means fishing, some ancient freedom, virtuosity, fortunately established periodical activity, not only among the general public, but also among fishermen themselves. This approach has changed somewhat recently, but it is still far from being known by the public as a scientifically cultured sector of pre-occupational occupations, whose embrace, further cultivation and expansion is a very serious interest of the people.-Now, when, at the initiative of our fellow MP, Lajos Szűcs, the Hungarian fisheries have received the last stabs and disappears from the ranks of Hungarian pre-occupational occupations, and its cultivation will only take place as a traditional task, it is worth considering the words of István Fekete, just as we recall to Otto Herman's basic book on Hungarian fisheries, published in 1887, which he wrote about the Hungarian fisherman. [[14.50]] The birthplace of the real Hungarian fisherman falls on the side of the Hungarian Great Plain, and there is a sporadic spread around Lake Balaton, along the Danube and to Dravafok. It is a real Hungarian fisherman who performs his craft with ancient tools, anciently, in patriarchal composition, i.e. bush, bond or sect. He had and still has a family, in which the noble craft of fishing was inherited and inherited from father to son. He's proud of his craft, mostly because he has strong faith. The Hungarian fisherman is, almost without exception, what we mean by a good Hungarian man. He's calm, honest, right-handed, but he's open, welcoming, excellently moderate, busy and persistent in his work. Most of the time, he has an amazing observant talent that covers everything around the water and the water, and it is exemplary for him who never rests until he has his tools fixed. The Hungarian fisherman is a real tough man. The mark paddles, rope pots, and like the iron you're grabbing, it's grabbed. His body was extremely well-trained. With the exception of a pair of boots, which in winter is the excellent fishing sandal of old times, the clothing of the blue, Hungarian people, and many of its leather and tar substitutes, known for fishing other peoples, so that they can protect their skin from water, and with the Hungarian fisherman there can be neither news nor ashes. The nature of the Hungarian fisherman is best and most beautifully developed in the fishing bush. He is a good example in everything and can preserve his dignity. The Hungarian fisherman is not superstitious. He's got an army of signs that he's drawn to flooding and dwindling. And most of the sign comes from the normal phenomena of nature, and what the snails, the water bugs, and so on do. The general characterization of the Hungarian fishermen, and the most beautiful part of the picture is that he loves his craft exceedingly, and, as we have said, he is proud of it. He never complains about the hard work of fishing. The problem is that the fish has run out, and someone who is a Hungarian fisherman, who has every right to want the old good times back. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The weeding of Hungarian fishing from Hungarian public waters appeared practically at the same time as the Fidesz government's efforts, and the government thought that 300-350 thousand Hungarian fishermen's interests would be contrary to the continuation of fishing. I feel completely unacceptable about this view of sacrificing an ancient Hungarian occupation simply because government efforts cannot see beyond how many voters can be addressed. These words disappear forever, which have been signs of a means until now: vehement, distress, company, commodore, ark, vater, varsa, toaster net, bone, sac, balm. And these methods will disappear forever from the Hungarian waters: lifting fishing, throwing fishing, setting fishing, fishing for fishes, fishing for sowing, fishing for loops, fishing for harpoons, fishing for harpoons, harpooning, curving and croaking. All of this will be past the end of this year: natural fishing will cease in Hungarian natural waters as of 1 January. That's what I thought I'd remember after the schedule. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-12-07-196	On behalf of the Government, the Ministry of Agriculture has indicated that it will respond in writing to what has been said. On the next agenda, Mr Sebestyén Vágó spoke with a title entitled "World Day for People with Disabilities." You have the floor.
u2015-12-07-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On 3 December 1992, the United Nations declared 3 December as the World Day for People with Disabilities. And why did that have to happen? They saw then the problem that unfortunately we are experiencing to this day, that equal opportunities for people with disabilities are almost unattainable, and there are a lot of them, unfortunately a lot of people in today's era are still saying that they cannot accept them. I am not even talking about empathetic towards disabled fellow humans or even their fellow nations, but a lot of people can't accept them, and in many cases they don't even know how and how to behave against a disabled person. Hungary is very behind in terms of equal opportunities. One of the most visible examples of this is the lack of accessibility in Hungary. Of course, in response to my speeches on similar topics, I always get the government to say that, no, the government is doing everything possible, it is easier to get from A to A to B. By the way, let us ask those concerned how easy it is for them to get from a point of A to a point of B, either by means of public transport or without using public transport; and they also say that the government is at the forefront in terms of accessibility, and we always hear large billions of numbers about how much they spend on accessibility of government windows. I have to tell you, most of this is a lie. Hungary stands very poorly in terms of accessibility, and in many cases it is the public buildings that do not meet these expectations and standards. A very good example of this is the Győr government window, which, although renovated, was renovated after the sounds of promises, but is still not accessible to people with disabilities. I have spoken on this subject many times, and I would like to say a few words about the employment of people with disabilities and people with disabilities. A few words about the major problems faced by civil society organisations, companies or even municipal organisations or companies involved in this. It was a very large cut that the employment contribution, the rehabilitation fund, had ceased, which was due to the fact that companies that did not comply with the requirement to employ 5 percent of people with changed working skills or disabilities have an obligation to pay a rehabilitation contribution, which is nearly HUF 1 million: HUF 945 thousand. This used to be collected separately within the Labour Market Fund in a rehabilitation fund. This was an opportunity to apply, and this must be spent on the employment of people with disabilities and people with disabilities. This fund is gone. While the fund existed, it was pretty vague what this money was going to do, which is no small amount of money, who wins it, what developments it's spent on, whether it's actually spent on what it's for, or if it's trying to patch other budget holes. However, since this fund does not exist, it is even more difficult to track whether the amount thus received is actually spent on what it should be doing or if it is another tax for employers. In many places in Europe, there are very good examples of how this system can be made more operational. When this amount has been raised, I have said many times after that that it may not be the best way to increase this contribution as much as possible, because we will not be able to actually hire people with disabilities, realizing their own interests, up to the maximum amount of their income, or even if they can't pay this amount, a person with a disability will be hired from an alibi. This, I think, is also a humiliating and unfair condition for that man. There are much better-functioning systems in Europe. The system has been in place for years in Germany, where there is a rehabilitation contribution. If the company does not wish to pay a rehabilitation contribution, but does not wish to employ a disabled person, in this case it can replace the rehabilitation contribution with orders and contracts with companies employing disabled people. I ask myself, is it not a better system for people with disabilities if companies who do not employ their peers will order from them, order from them, and thus provide them with continuous and secure work? I would like the government to consider these matters and these points. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-07-198	After the next agenda, Mr Ander Balázs came forward with the title of the reality of the disintegration of domestic bus production, the practice of outsourcing from far away and the tale of patriotic economic policy. You have the floor, Congressman. [[15.00]]
u2015-12-07-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 23 March this year, in a speech, I asked whether the government felt it appropriate to bleed out domestic bus production. This is definitely an issue that would be a very important and racially important area for the Hungarian national economy if the government were to give me credit for this, and I will therefore try, in addition to new points, to clarify the importance of this issue once again. The general experience of outsourcings typical of the Budapest Transport Centre is that private companies, which on the one hand are not capital-powered and on the other hand do not want to invest in vehicles, rent or lease cars, so in any case there is an expensive credit facility, the costs of which are charged to the customer. So it doesn't correspond to the whole truth, the explanation is that the BKK has to pay more to run the outsourced cars because they're new, as long as the BKVs have described them, so they don't have depreciation costs. In addition, according to the running contracts, the customer pays the car price in eight plus two years, the bus used does not cost its property, it is acquired and sold by the operator in most cases, even though under domestic conditions they could still run for another six to eight years. The operator's rental or leasing arrangements are backed by bank collateral, the guarantee of which is the vehicle and its repurchase option in case the contract is terminated prematurely for any reason. This buy-back option is provided by multinational bus companies, MAN, Mercedes, Volvo. If they had to take back the bus used, they could sell it at any time on their secondary markets. None of the domestic manufacturers are able to provide such a return guarantee, so the Hungarian bus should never be considered as a possible solution in the sub-contracting tenders. We're learning to interpret the new strange name of the Volans correctly. Take any of them, such as DDKK Zrt., i.e. South Transdanubian Transport Centre Zrt.! In fact, the part of the,, Transport Center is interesting, which we should examine here a little bit, ask questions. At the time of their creation, the government started from the unspoken idea that, following the opening of the market in 2017, these companies would be the rural BKKs in the field of road passenger transport, since the rail passenger market was closed to MÁV-Start and GYSEV by the end of 2023. So from 2017 onwards, these companies will not be primarily service providers but customers, they will coordinate outsourcing and coordination of internal and outsourced services. The main beneficiaries of outsourcing are expected to be the Waberer - s group. The tender is carried out with one large and two or three small tenders per region, the former requiring hundreds or thousands of buses and 30-50 buses for the small ones. The big ones come with Waberer and Arriva, the small ones with the T&J Bus Project, Orangeways, Contact Bus and their associates. Therefore, the preparation for the opening of the market will be cancelled at the Volans. According to our information, there are about two hundred purchases in progress, and next year there may be a hundred more. There is no longer a thousand pieces of renewal, perhaps half of which could have been given by the Hungarians. The Hungarian bus manufacturers couldn't sell a hundred pieces this year, which is a historic low point, shame, shame. Yeah, there's more down there: zero. It is an additive that the ARC-MABI, i.e. the ex Ikarus, now Modulo cars from BKK Trolitender, were driven out by the fact that in the tender the height of the vehicle was given a few inches below the parameters of their city bus, according to Solaris, and then they had the nerve to say that the Hungarians could have started, but they did not submit a tender. Therefore, we should expect what was said on October 12th, and the dangers of addiction. Or why do Hungarian manufacturers not stand a chance in the development applications of domestic passenger companies? As well as the October 26th, Stealth Volan Privatization? I predicted it in my oral questions. In particular, there will be large-scale outsourcing in 2017 and the Community-owned fleet will be dismantled in line with a trend similar to that of the BKV bus. In this way, there will be no need for large-scale new procurement, as the old ones will become massively scrapable, while external service providers, small and large companies will bring a foreign-funded vehicle park for taxpayers' wallets to the great and great pleasure. So, go to Hungary, go to Hungarians! Yeah, and patriotic economics, and then we're gonna wake up. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-07-200	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Teleki, on the subject of the next agenda, spoke on the topic of increasing poverty. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-201	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I gave this name because I think it is possible to see from various researches and surveys that we are also the hosts of poverty compared to European Union countries, and now you can see - whether we are looking at researchers from the MTA or the various sociologists - what poverty is like in Hungary in black. It is possible to tell what this comes from and what makes it possible to conclude that this is the case, but we know one thing: employee poverty is present in Hungary, which the Hungarian Socialist Party now says every day where it can. Stop workers' poverty, and do not allow those who live on wages and salaries to starve every day, their children and they themselves have no money saved, they cannot save, vacations or skiing are out of the question. So, therefore, I think that not only do people who live in poverty live in danger but also that they have no or can't have saved money. As a result, I think that we have repeatedly called on the Hungarian Government to do something about this to change, but we do not see that something has changed, and that one of the members of the government would have raised their voice and given the workers the opportunity to raise their salaries or to raise the various things that could eradicate poverty. Of course, we have heard loud words from the members of the government here several times, but we have never seen that the result has changed, but, as I have already said, the various statistics show otherwise: they show exactly the opposite side of life that poverty and vulnerability are increasing. Minister of Justice László Trócsányi spoke against Roma poverty, which a lot of people misunderstood, I didn't, I didn't, but I think we would expect several members of the government to speak and do so that they can eliminate child poverty and workers' poverty. The Hungarian Socialist Party has also repeatedly spoken about child poverty, and we see that it does not affect the Hungarian political elite, the government, because it has not tried very much to submit to Parliament or to support the law that the Hungarian Socialist Party has submitted in order to argue here in Parliament, what should be done in order to eradicate child poverty. It didn't affect him, like I said, any member of the government. If we go further, then I think that in addition to children, we should mention the poverty of old-age pensioners, because they often say that pensioners are paid, but every day you can see that there are a lot of elderly people, elderly people who live from day to day, so they don't have any savings, and maybe from the small savings they have, even though grandchildren and children are trying to make some kind of living, so that they, their children or grandchildren can at least pay the yellow cheque that they wouldn't otherwise be able to accept from parents. As a result, I think there are many areas where this problem, poverty, is tangible, and this is definitely to be cured. I don't see it, and I'm not trying to emphasise my sentences here at the Advent time, before Christmas, that many people are living these holidays - one of the country's greatest festivals, but it is also a very big church holiday outside the country - that there is poverty around the family. Of course, many people say they can't handle it because they really don't want to work, and there are layers that can't really fit into society. And I'm saying that there's not only a poor layer, but the middle layer has gone down now, so the Christmas holiday may not be the same for them as for anyone who can put something on their desk. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party is not thinking of a one-time opportunity to help the poor and only at Christmas, but it is very important that there should be no child poverty, no old-age poverty, no pension poverty, and no poverty at all in this country that you can see now. I think it is very important to think about the increase in salaries and pay wages in time, which have not been paid today, by the way. [[15.10]] The teachers haven't been paid in the last week. In many places, we asked why teachers wouldn't get the wages they had earned. We didn't get an answer to that either, although it certainly increases workers' poverty. As a result, we would like to send a message to the government only from here to stop poverty in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-07-202	Mr István Ikotity was asked to speak after the next agenda with the title "City Log." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-07-203	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have drawn attention to a very unfair situation on several occasions and in several places, and I would like to do so here in Parliament. It is generally quite widespread in Hungary, it appears in settlements of different sizes, and this is information. I would like to report on a local newspaper and its disproportionate information. I'll start the story with a little historical introduction. Until the autumn of 2006, the municipality issued a paper called the Local Government Guide, with different frequencies every month and every two weeks. In 2006, however, he founded a company, a one-man company, called it Baja Marketing Kft., as this company is owned by a one-man, one-percent municipal government, and at the same time ceased publishing its own paper and handed it over to this one-man Kft. It's cvt. has launched a newspaper called Bácskai Diary, in which I would like to report to you now on political disproportions, supported by a number of numbers. I would like to start by saying that the composition of the local body from 2010 to 2014 was 73:27 in favour of the ruling parties, i.e. 11 of the 15 members of the panel in Bajan were pro-government and 4 opposition representatives. The information at this time looked - I counted these appearances as to how often the names of different politicians occur. The mention of pro-government politicians, the mention of city leaders has been made 217 times, as opposed to the mention of the opposition, which is only 6 times, obviously in the negative contexts here as well. So only 2.8 percent is what the opposition received as a speaking space. I would add that there was even a court ruling in a case where they refused to publish an election notice. By the way, I note that one of these six is my name, when I started in the election and successfully collected a sufficient number of recommendations, then I was mentioned; to highlight the dramatic nature of the situation, so merely factual information from the election committee is a mention. This ratio shifted slightly from 2014 onwards, and the 15-member board changed to 9:6, so the majority of the government fell in the local leadership, only 9 of them were in the 8 individual districts, 1 from the list, and 6 of them were in the opposition. Obviously, I didn't mention the mayor. He's pro-government, of course. Interesting number of appearances. I just said that in 2014, there were 217 appearances, more than doubled in 2015 - despite the fact that the election year has passed - the mention of local leaders has increased to 468, as opposed to oppositionists who have been mentioned 13 times; this is also an increase. And it's astounding that it's just as much as 2.8 percent; as if you were to supervise this, that it always comes out exactly the same. In any case, it is highly distorted that there is a proportion in the body that is 60:40, whereas in the local newspaper, which is somewhat independent, this ratio is only 97:3. Obviously, under the law, there is no obligation for this paper, this company, to do this balanced information, nevertheless, to manage public money, and it is very unfair that it has the opportunity to do so. Obviously, I would like to take the steps that I have the opportunity to take, so I will turn to the Media Council and make a legislative amendment to this. In many places in the country there are precedents for this happening in the same way. However, I would also like to mention that since then, who, on behalf of the governing party - obviously - has been mentioned sixty-six times this year by the parliamentary representative of the district, Róbert Zsigó's name, while I obviously live there, my hometown and my residence Baja, have not been described on any occasion. It's been ordered by local journalists not to mention it. I wanted to draw attention to this imbalance, and I hope that this will change in the future, at least we will do everything we can to do so. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-12-07-204	Member Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a final statement after the last agenda:. Will the crosses be returned? It's an address. You have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2015-12-07-205	Mr President, Dear House, I thought it was important to say after the agenda, because the fact that, according to the news from Belgium a few days ago, some 30 migrants were deported to Hungary, based on a statement by the foreign police and immigration authorities there, has either not been mentioned or has not been given sufficient weight. This number 30 looks like a mini quota, not a number that would be scary, scary. But if we put this into the system with more than 700 people, or seven hundred, staying in Hungary, or repatriated migrants, or prisoners who should not be in this country, it can be seen that there is a huge gap between government communication and reality. In the field of communication, they quite rightly took over the right slogan that zero tolerance should be exercised both on the basis of quotas and on the basis of deportations. That's very good. If that's what anyone thinks, we can only support them. The reality is, however, that while they stand up to similar statements at ministerial and prime minister level, the migrants around us today in Hungary are, fortunately for the time being, a small number of migrants against whom this rhetorical struggle is taking place. You can see that, walking around the country, you don't have to go far, just a few miles away, I visited Martonvásár myself, there are 74 migrants in custody in the renovated wing of an old Bv building. The staff guarding them has a maximum of a baton, so according to their own statement, not too many, 74 people can break out of there whenever they want, and basically do whatever they want. It can therefore be said that some safety risks can be detected at low levels. That's not very high. But now it would be possible to do everything to exclude from the life of Hungary, not only at the level of words, those with whom the Hungarian people do not wish to live, but also to take real action. Let us examine the scenes where they arrive in greater numbers. It is typical in Scandinavian countries that, as we call it, there are currently 30 thousand migrant accommodations in Norway under public supervision by church and civil society organisations. This is where, according to reports by several news portals, the Norwegian Immigration Directorate has asked the churches operating there to remove not only the paintings of the crosses and Jesus, but actually any symbol called religious ones, which may be detrimental to the sensitivity of the so-called migrants, because of the religious beliefs of migrants. Amazingly, according to the head of the Norwegian mission center there, immigrants themselves do not really care what symbols decorate the buildings, let us call the houses of the natives, which they will now inhabit. But we can also paddle to the waters of other countries, because this Norwegian, originally mandatory command, is a refined recommendation, and there are a lot of deterrent examples. The Norwegian TV was the one who voluntarily removed the cross from the national flag during the national holiday in order not to violate someone's sensitivity. So there's a very sick coercion of compliance. But in Italy, it was an obviously sick school principal who literally abolished the traditional Christmas celebration of the institution, referring to the diverse nationalities of the nebulos. We're talking about a state-owned institution. Later, it took a ministerial, prime minister's intervention to remove this man and to eliminate the madness he caused. But by then, the usual Christmas concert had already been renamed a winter concert, so that respect for students of other origins and religions would not be strong enough. So we have some pretty amazing examples, and although the various interventions are still able to eliminate such drives, they can make it possible for these sick ideas in a Scandinavian country not to become real or to be recommended, but if we look only at the Italian school system along the lines of that example, roughly 300,000 of the seven million young and young students are considered Muslims. The alarm is that in 2008, this figure was only 81 thousand. We do not have a problem with Islam in itself, because we say that every religion should flourish, but in its own land, in its own country. However, if we want to preserve Europe's identity and image as it is, then indeed, we have to cut down those who are called similar liberals, but in fact, intellectual flaws, and keep Europe's life, public life and public thinking clean, because it can be seen that once the gate is opened and only 30 migrants arrive on it, but they want to settle down so much, then that gate will certainly remain open and we will have to face a truly amazing disaster. That is why we must protect Hungary by all means. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-07-206	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that on behalf of the Government, the NFM will respond in writing to Mr Ander's speech after the previous agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session will take place on 14 December 2015. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 3:21 p.m.]]
