u2015-06-23-0	Good morning, fellow Members. I would like to welcome all of you and welcome our guests and everyone who is monitoring our work today. The 2nd day of the second extraordinary meeting of the Parliament will be opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, notary Nándor Gúr and Lajos Szűcs. It is now time for the speeches before the agenda. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, notary of the National Assembly, has applied for a pre-scheduled speech. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-23-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Today we are voting on the 2016 budget, which you call the tax reduction and the budget to support families. On the other hand, we claim that this budget will cement the failed social and economic policy of Fidesz-KDNP, which cripples people's lives in the long term. You do not pay attention to the world's processes, or at least you cannot properly appreciate them. Over the past few years, it's all gone to the rich. There is no economic growth if people, the vast majority of businesses, do not benefit from the increase in profits of 1-5 percent above. The world and individual societies have been torn apart by few rich people and the fast growing camp of the poor. The disintegration of society is not only an unfair society, as Viktor Orbán acknowledged the other day, but also becomes a barrier to economic development in the short term. Therefore, the most important tool today is to reduce differences, but the number one tool being progressive income tax and higher taxation of capital income. Nothing in your policy can be seen from this. You communicate that the 1% reduction of sjaja leaves 120 billion forints in people, the tax relief of families with two children helps families to a significant extent, while the reduction of the VAT on pigmeat from 27 percent to 5 percent will be good for everyone. If we look at the figures more closely, it turns out that only 0.5 percent of GDP will reduce taxes, and that is what you call the budget for the tax reduction. In older commercial law, this was called a giddy praise and could be given a prison for up to three years. I think your propaganda is exhausting this situation. Plus, and it's even more serious, you're hiding reality behind the average. A 1 percent reduction in sjaja increases the gap between low incomes and higher incomes. We have already said many times that those who earn 1 million HUF per month will only increase their earnings by 10 thousand HUF per month, while those who earn 100,000 HUF per month will only increase their earnings by 1000 HUF per month. They should finally realize that they should be helping people with lower incomes. After all, workers' poverty has become a serious problem in Hungary. Nearly 2 million people earn below the minimum living age, and 4 million citizens live on income below the minimum living age. For millions more, a decent living from month to month is a problem. They want to help the situation of families after a child, but only until the second child, with 2500 HUF per month, while no family allowance and child has been raised since 2008. They should have been raised by at least 25 percent. And for the pig's VAT, it's too little. At least 5% VAT should have been extended to all basic foods. I would also like to read on your head that health care, education, social services are left on a ventilator. But unfortunately, even though we say it, it's like talking to the wall. You use your fast-collected wealth through your contacts in private health, private education, and you really believe that what's good for your family is good for this country. But what's important to you is enough money in 2016. One of these is the 133 billion Paks, the museum quarter of the Liget project, the tens of billions of state and government communications, the expensive and unnecessary motorways or, for example, the airport in Debrecen. However, little money is available to support national parks or to reduce harmful particulate matter, while there is no money at all for environmental remediation. The LMP proposed a responsible but radical fiscal restructuring. Our proposals would not have raised the budget deficit by a single HUF or required borrowing. In total, with 73 amendments, we proposed the transfer of more than HUF 1600 billion by helping people from work, those who are looking for real work. This would have served the purpose that Fidesz had set before, but had completely forgotten: to earn a decent living from decent work. Only on this can a sustainable society and a sustainable economy be based. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-23-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Sándor Czomba replied to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-23-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for bringing this important issue back to Parliament, and we can tell you some important things, not only figures, but also facts, about the wage policy and employment policy of the last few years. Indeed, as you have mentioned, there are significant tax incentives in the budget for next year, which will remain specifically in the pockets of Hungarian families and Hungarian people. As you have mentioned, personal income tax is reduced from 16 to 15 percent, it represents HUF 120 billion for people, the VAT on pig meat is HUF 25 billion, the tax relief of families with two children is HUF 15 billion, and the use of previous tax benefits in relation to the institution of the family tax system leaves HUF 240 billion per year for families with children. I think that is a very significant amount. The ged extra is introduced, which helps families to reconcile work with having children. In addition, in 2016 the government will leave HUF 138 billion to entrepreneurs who are disadvantaged in terms of the labour market in the context of the job protection action plan. These are all significant resources which, I think, will significantly help living conditions. But what you said here, and perhaps it is worth taking a step back, is whether the differences in wages that exist in the Hungarian system, how much Hungarian specialties and how characteristic they are in general. Whether it is the Poles, the Czechs, the Romanians, the Slovaks... - because I think it is worth investigating here, because we can really say that we have a significant lag compared to Western European wages, and that it will probably be significant in the coming years, but we need to look at how we stand in this respect. And if we look at this, we're gonna get a whole different picture. There are similar trends and similar differences in these countries. But perhaps it has not yet been said here, among the walls of Parliament, and I am sorry that I burden those present with figures early in the morning and those who are able to listen to us so early, but it is very important, I think that we should indicate that in 2014, the value of the 10th decylis of gross actions, so this top 10 percent, to put it simply, was 616 thousand forints. On the other hand, the 9th decylis is less than half, 350 thousand forints. So the 10th decylis is indeed an outlier, but the 9th and obviously the 8th, 7th and the others are downhill: 8. 283,000, and the 7th is 234 thousand forints. So what you're saying right now is that the differences are growing, the scissors are expanding, these numbers are virtually unsubstantiated. Obviously, it is a very important question of what happens to the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, since it has a push-over effect on all the other income levels later on. That is why it is important, which is why we have also considered it important in recent years to agree with employers and workers on the increase in wages. The wages are constantly rising. If we look at it between 2010 and 2014, then the minimum wage has increased by virtually more than 40 percent, although it is true that in gross terms, the net increase of this is lower. However, if we observe the latest KSH data, it is clear that since inflation is low and we have managed to set up the 3-4 percent increase in earnings in the context of the agreement, we see that employment is not falling, it is a very important issue, and it is growing. There is power behind growth, so wages can grow by increasing not from credit but from performance, from work. This is also a very important question. [[9.10]] And in terms of the minimum wage and the minimum wage, we can see that while this ratio was around 70 percent in the year 2011, it is now 79 percent. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that the trend is constantly improving. Obviously, we would like to see that we can achieve a minimum living situation as soon as possible, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that it would require a one-time increase of 30 per cent at the moment, which we believe would endanger thousands of jobs in the competitive sphere, so we intend to increase wages in the coming years, but to the extent that the economy and the economy make it possible to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-23-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member Tamás Harangozó asked for a speech from the MSZP Group before the agenda: "The Reality." Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With last week's announcement of the fence building, the Hungarian government made it clear that it failed and proved that it was unable to defend the common border between Hungary and Europe, the southern border of Hungary. Speaking of the announcement of fence construction, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing better to show the well-founded decisions of the Hungarian Government than that two weeks ago, the Fidesz faction leader and the chairman of the Defence and Police Committee, Mr Rogán and Kósa, clearly and clearly denied [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Then I did!]] that the Hungarian government is thinking about building fences. Then a week passed, and at this plenary session of Parliament, we discussed the bill submitted by the two Members from 9 a.m. to about 11 a.m., that either he had no idea what the government would announce at noon or - I cannot put it another way - they also lied about this general debate. There was only one word in plenary about what the Hungarian Government would announce an hour later. [[Dr. Répássy Robert intervenes.]] Looking at their faces, unfortunately, we feel that they had no idea what Viktor Orbán and the Hungarian government would announce an hour later. In fact, what is our opinion - and they cannot discourage us from doing so - is not only that the Hungarian government has not been able to defend the borders of Europe and Hungary, but has deliberately assisted in the process that has taken place in Hungary in the last five to six months. You have allowed nearly 60,000 people to pass through this country without compliance with Hungarian law, and have not dealt with the migration situation, even by means that are still in the hands of the Hungarian government, both by law and by other means. According to Lajos Kósa's own declaration, these people stayed in Hungary on average for up to three days. Everyone can guess where they are: Austria and Germany. You have put nearly 60,000 people on our western neighbours. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How do you speak?]] And the reason we are here today is that this problem is becoming a real problem, ladies and gentlemen, because both the Austrians and the Germans have had enough of it, and they are threatening to close the border, which really means that people who would use Hungary as transit countries will probably be stuck here in Hungary. The MSZP has made it clear that it does not wish to participate in a political hack campaign and political hate campaign. We also said that we would be very happy to sit down with the government if they wanted to bring sound professional solutions to Parliament. Such a meeting, but there hasn't even been an invitation in the last five months or in the last few weeks. Therefore, the MSZP submitted two legislative proposals yesterday, which, in our view, is essential to address the current situation. One is a budget amendment proposal, which would provide HUF 22 billion for what we have been saying to you since January; if this is really such a problem, the existing foreign police, asylum and border police bodies should be given immediate investment and staff development support. I don't want to mention the fence. It's your nun. But when you think about how long it will take for a fence to be built and what will happen in the meantime, you can see that, in the current situation, this issue will be unmanageable without helping these organs. We recommend the recruitment of the Immigration Office plus 300 persons in order to assess applications more quickly and double their costs in rem. We want to give the police 10 billion forints of money to invest in things on helicopters, drones, night vision cameras, the technical tools used by the 21st century. In the century, a border can be protected - this is certainly not the fence today - and 7 billion forints for staff development. In addition, we also submitted an amendment to Btk. Orbán himself acknowledged or at least avoided this announcement that these hate-promoting posters are not for immigrants, nor for refugees, but for smugglers. Ladies and gentlemen. We have tabled the amendment of Btk, which makes it clear that participation in the preparation is also a guaranteed prison sentence; and anyone who commits this by desecrating refugees or by an alliance of crime will rot in prison for 15 years. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári, Károly Kontra, Dr. Répássy Róbert, L. Simon László: Whoa! Whoa! Dr. Robert Répássy: So many philanthropies!]] I think that's the way to send a message. And this is what they put on the watch poster, honourable Members, that those who wish to get rich from the misery of others will be the toughest in Hungary! [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Jobbik is your competition.]] Finally, there is no solution without a European common solution. If there really is migration, the Hungarian fence will not stop it, so we ask you to discuss our legislative proposals. You should be partners now. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and adopt these proposals. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-23-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-23-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am sorry that the socialists did not understand what is real in Europe, they did not understand what is real in Hungary. [[Lajos Korózs: We understand it now!]] Mr. Bellozó used phrases that we'd put 60,000 refugees on Europe and they'd be rotting in prison. [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I didn't say that! Zoltán Grimlock: Don't twist his words. The smugglers! It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] which do not fit into the Hungarian Parliament, and I reject these terms, honourable Member. But let's look at the facts. Let us look at the facts of the situation that we are facing today in Europe and in Hungary. Today, it is clear that migration is the European Union's most serious problem; and it is also clear, my fellow Members, that the European Union cannot deal with these issues with the current rules. It proves that Germany, France, Austria, Italy have resorted to radical measures. And in this situation, Hungary must also respond, because it has also been proven that the current rules that we have been forced to take over because of the Union are not suitable for dealing with the refugee situation, migration. Honourable Congressman, You said that we put 60,000 people on it in Western Europe because we could not apply the rules that we could otherwise have applied. Honourable Congressman, The fact is that under the current rules, which are adopted by Hungarian rules under EU rules, these people cannot be taken into custody. They cannot be taken into custody, they must be left free, and we cannot take action against them, we cannot expel them from Hungary because they disappear, leave their host station and move on. But that's the rules. These EU rules had to be adopted in 2012 and therefore the Hungarian authorities cannot act. [[Lajos Korózs: Don't put everything on the EU! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Don't project your own helplessness on anyone else!]] That is why we say that we need new rules. I am sorry, Mr President, that the Socialist Party, the Left, is on the side of immigrants and illegal immigrants. [[Lajos Korózs: Are you talking about this?! Oh, my God. What are you talking about?]] If we look back in history, on December 5, 2004 the left campaigned against Hungarians across the border. [[Intercoms, noise in the benches of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] he took a stand against Hungarians from across the border, and they alarmed me with 23 million Romanians. [[Noise in the benches of MSZP. Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] 540 billion-dollar editions were mentioned. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] and prevented the citizenship of Hungarians across the border, honourable Member. Today, they are on the side of immigrants in the field of migration, and what do we see? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] On 5 December 2004, the then president of the MSZP may have apologized in Cluj-Napoca in 2013 for the position of the MSZP at that time. Will one, two, three, four, five years from now you apologize for not being on the side of the Hungarian people? [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP. Zoltán Pride: When will you? The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, There is a Hungarian saying, a Hungarian proverb: the fair must be held on its day. Now is the time to take the side of the Hungarian people; now is the time to establish a national unity and unity. [[Dr. László Varga: Answer what you asked. You're lying!]] which makes it possible for Hungary to act decisively in the interests of the Hungarian people, for the safety of the Hungarian people, and for Hungary's safety against migration. [[Dr. László Varga: There was no mention of human trafficking. Lajos Korózs: Speak, Karchi, speak more!]] [[9.20]] I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not unique in the context of the border closure to be established at the Hungarian-Serbian border. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: This has been done before,,89!]] There is also such a border closure at the Greek border, there is also in other parts of the European Union, there is also in Bulgarians, so it is true [[József Tobias: There is one in America that you refer to all the time!]] and with this border Hungary, the Hungarian government protects not only Hungary, but also the European Union, because the Hungarian-Serbian border is an external Schengen border, which is why it is necessary to act decisively. [[Dr. László Varga:...communication panels!]] By the way, if you look at the data, let me tell you that during yesterday, 659 illegal border crossings were caught by border guards, and I will also say, as I said yesterday, that most of these are not political refugees, they were not persecuted, they were living immigrants. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: How do you know that?]] And it is also very important to know that at the Hungarian-Serbian border crossing points only one refugee did not make contact, everyone illegally crossed the Hungarian border, breaking the Hungarian laws, and the Hungarian border police captured them. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: When will Andy Vajna be screened?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important that the Hungarian Parliament strengthens the government so that we can create strict laws, and if you are serious about wanting to strengthen the police, then vote in favour of the budget today. Thank you very much. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Pride: There's less money in it!]]
u2015-06-23-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member Tamás Harangozó asked for the floor as a matter of personal concern. [[Interview from Fidesz: What personal involvement? József Tobias: You've pushed what doesn't match!]]
u2015-06-23-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Constant interruptions from the Fidesz ranks. L. Simon László:...no answer, before the agenda! The president's ringing the bell.]] I do not wish to qualify for the reply of the Secretary of State, because I would not have the right, according to the house rules, to qualify for it. I would like to make one point, Mr Secretary: you have falsely stated about me - and I would like to make that clear here - that I have used the term rotting in prison in relation to refugees. Now, I'm gonna tell you slowly so you understand, I said that word about smugglers, and I'm gonna say it again, so you understand. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: How personal is this? L. Simon László: What is personal attack?]] Hungary should send a message that those who take advantage of the lives of these refugees will rot in prison in Hungary for a very long time. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] And please don't twist my words [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Because there are other legal ways to do this! Thank you very much.
u2015-06-23-10	However, I would like to ask the Member to use a more qualified term next time, i.e. something that could also be said in Parliament as regards the future fate of the people. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: I will avoid the word ".Porn"!]] From the KDNP Group: Mr Soltész asked for the floor with the title of another left-wing hypocrisy. Here you go. [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: The secret miracle weapon!]]
u2015-06-23-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The European Union is experiencing the worst humanitarian crisis to date. The crowds fleeing war-torn countries and being deceived by gangs and mafias are almost unstoppable to Europe's borders. [[Lajos Korózs: Secretary of State Do you hear what the congressman is saying? It's run by mobs...!]] The humanitarian crisis thus poses a serious economic, social, health and security threat. What's the solution? What is the state, the responsibility of political parties in this case? Over the last few days, the left has been politicalising against the vast majority of people, against the Fidesz-KDNP government's proposals for solutions. It is worth looking back at how they behaved when the Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin took steps to help their lives. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Vojvodina helps the fence very much! Towards the lines of the MSZP:]] It is a pity that party president József Tobias leaves the room, because I am not speaking about personal attack, but I am quoting what he said in 2002 during the status law. It opens the Hungarian labour market to Romanian workers in Romania, it is a regrettable fact that the price of our Prime Minister's megaloman idea and foreign policy failure is first to be paid by young workers. He spoke against Hungarians. Ferenc Gyurcsány did the same thing, who feared that 770 thousand people would come over, and it would cost this country 168 thousand forints each. How much did the left count now? Lajos Korózs, who is in this room right now, said that the appearance of a few thousand people will result in a billion-dollar expenditure in the social sphere. [[Lajos Korózs: Yes!]] Later, he visited from an extra cost of HUF 161 billion in 2004, when dual citizenship should have been promoted and guaranteed to cross-border citizens. [[Lajos Korózs: That's right, because they acquire citizenship, and they are entitled to everything from family allowances to children! The president's ringing the bell.]] Gábor Fodor said that the reason to vote 'no' is because it strengthens the nation-state idea. [[Lajos Korózs: Talk about Ukrainian pensioners! Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Maintain your hate - inspiring claims!]] Back in the day, you denied our fellow nations. [[A voice from the ranks of the MSZP:]] The left doesn't even reveal the gravity of the problem. They repeat unrealistic sentences, they want to negotiate, but they don't want to act. [[Lajos Korózs: 27 000 people asked for Hungarian pensions for people who did not pay social security in Hungary!]] They face the interests and opinions of the country, the Hungarian people. That's how Tamás Harangozó accused me before, lied, said something. [[Dr. László Varga: You're lying!]] that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian people, deliberately sent immigrants. But here, too, it is worth quoting the current socialist and leftist positions. József Tobias said that he should exclude himself from Europe, who is taking a firm action against immigrants. Look around what a good part of European political leadership is doing. [[Dr. László Varga: How you will be ashamed of this!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány said - interesting, who had repeatedly hired [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Lajos Korózs: Let's hope you confess before Mass on Sunday!]] - that it is a humane, Christian and EU Member State duty for Hungary to receive the 700 refugees it receives. Interesting solution. Csaba Horváth is a socialist representative:. Immigration is a fake problem created by Fidesz, because the real problem is the emigration of Hungarians. Socialist representative István Újhelyi says the following to the government's proposals: according to the MSZP MEP, the last person to see such an instigating, exclusional attitude from the Nazi government was... [[Lajos Korózs: Yes!]] Thank you very much. That's what Lajos Korózs says. [[Lajos Korózs: Yes! Nazi propaganda! L. Simon László: Come on! Nazi propaganda! Oh, come on.]] - politicians in the European Parliament, this is not accepted by Europe's stomach. The politician said that the legal opportunity must be found immediately against such renegade, i.e. Hungary; they are once again acting against Hungarian people, against the Hungarian government in Brussels and wherever they can. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I have to say that Hungary and the Hungarian people have already done what they can, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the present as well as in the present. In the past, we have done it for Poland and the Polish people. From Transylvania or wherever the Hungarians fled, we helped them. During the South Slav war, when refugees from all South Slav countries fled, we helped them. Those who are now fleeing the conflict in Ukraine will be helped. And it is necessary to act quickly, to build the border lock to strengthen the border, but everyone knows that this is a temporary solution. It is necessary to join together affluent countries in order to help the poor. International cooperation is necessary to eliminate smuggling gangs. Collaboration is necessary for truly religious, ethnic refugees. However, as long as the European Union moves, I can tell the left-wing community to accept a refugee. I think that as few as there are, this solution will only be a partial and false solution, it will not be comprehensive. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-23-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Károly Kontra will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-23-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you said in your speech before the agenda, the European Union's most serious problem is migration, especially migration from Africa. Today, it is also a fact that millions of people from Africa are on their way to Europe, and this is also causing enormous pressure on the European Union. It can also be seen, as I said earlier, in the voice of Mr Bellozó, that the European Union cannot deal with this migration with the current rules. I would like to stress, however, it is important that Hungary is interested in giving the European Union a firm and rigorous answer to these questions as soon as possible, but until this answer is delivered, Hungary cannot wait, as data show that today the number of illegal migrants, the number of asylum seekers, is over 60 thousand, and this number, if we did not act, if the government did not make a firm move on this issue, would exceed 120 thousand by the end of the year. But obviously we can't wait, which is why the government took a stand at its last meeting on Wednesday on the security border. [[9.30]] I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, will report tomorrow at the government meeting on the preparations and methods for preparing the technical border closure. In the meantime, during yesterday, the Hungarian and Serbian national police commissioners in Szeged agreed to take joint action, and in order to take decisive action against the smuggling gangs, it is very important that we take strict action against them. There is also the intention in the Serbian side, it seems, and common measures are being taken. What is very important, I said here in front of Parliament yesterday that Károly Papp, the national police commissioner, announced that the Hungarian police, the Hungarian border guard, confirmed the protection of the Hungarian-Serbian border, the southern border, because this is not only a Hungarian-Serbian border, but also a Schengen external border, on which Hungary has EU obligations. It is also a fact that Austria, Germany, Italy, France are acting more strictly. The recent days, the facts of the past week, the facts show that these countries are not only speaking, but also acting. Let me draw attention to one more important point: by using the so-called Dublin procedure, the Hungarian authorities received a request for 15,000 people. In other words, there is a risk that these people, these applicants, who entered the European Union in Hungary, should be reinstated. Hungary is not able to do this, and we would like to say so, and I would like to thank Members of the Council, Antal Rogán and Lajos Kósa, who have tabled a bill to the House, which we discussed last week, for their general debate, which will enable the government to appoint a safe third country. I would like to say that refugees complying with the 1951 Geneva Convention, i.e. those whose lives or families are in danger, continue to be accepted by Hungary, but those who arrive from a safe third country to Hungary have not been able to examine this so far by the Hungarian authorities, we cannot accept them, and those who are in a safe third country must resolve their situation. Dear Parliament, I hope that these decisive steps - on the one hand, the technical closure, the tightening of the legislation, the decisive action of the Hungarian government - can all contribute to ensuring that Hungarian people feel safe and that Hungary is safer, as this danger is great. Let me tell you one more thing: the situation is already in place today, and the figures show that most refugees come to Hungary on average in the European Union compared to population or GDP, thus preventing both Italy and other EU countries. So Hungary is most exposed to this threat. We are confident that the government's measures, the legislative proposals to be adopted by Parliament, will also help us to take into account the opinion of the Hungarian people, as, according to the data of the national consultation so far, people expect more decisive action on the basis of the replies sent back. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I ask the Parliament to support the government on this very important issue, because it is in the interests of Hungary, and it is in the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-23-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member of the Jobbik Group, Ádám Mirkóczki applied for a speech before the agenda:. The resources of what? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, By way of derogation, I would like to address another very serious issue about the problem of really serious immigration, which is primarily about Hungarian society, and this is the problem of Roma-Hungarian coexistence, the integration of Gypsy-Hungarianism, or the problem of the inintegration of Gypsy-Hungarian. In 2010, when you were given a two-thirds mandate, you went very far in the promises, you promised a little exaggeration in the integration of Gypsy, but you promised to create jobs, integration, peaceful coexistence and, last but not least, order as a matter of fact. I think that after five years, it is also time to draw a kind of balance in this regard. Well, it's not a miracle that hasn't happened, it's not order, it's peaceful living together, it's job creation that leaves something to wish for. In parentheses, I would like to note that the public work programme that we support is by no means termed productive and self-sustaining job creation, but rather a necessary minimum, which rightly refers to working for healthy, healthy people instead of aid. But there was no order in any way, nor did the desired results come, which I think, after many decades of bad experience in 2010, Hungarian society expected as a minimum. On the other hand, what we are now seeing for months now is that in many, many millions and even many billions of Roma integrations, it is perhaps not an exaggeration to say that the greatest corruption scandal of all time is taking place. There is, of course, responsibility for this, and if you are a politician and you have to bear the public, and we are politicians, and it is our job to name those responsible, we think that Flórian Farkas is at least responsible for this scandal in one person, all of this series of theft, which surrounds the traces or the trace of millions of Roma integrations. And what do you do? In no way are they at the forefront of the truth, they are not at the forefront of clarification, but rather they are masturbating, they are more protective, they point to others, where they are to prosecutors, to police, to courts, but they do not think of doing that political minimum to their own electorate, according to which their politicians, who are involved in an indecent state, would be legally and at least. And I would add that before I hear the answer in front of my spiritual ears, it is not exclusion, it is not hatred, and it is not the sharing of society that, if we call the facts, or theft, we demand accountability of those responsible. Maybe you guys are gonna operate on me again, that Jobbik is just gonna make you hate, that Jobbik is just gonna make you nervous. No, not at all. We would like this to not be a country without consequences. We want everyone to be punished. I would add here that for decades, which has meant many, many billions for the integration of Gypsy, can now be said for an innumerable amount of money, we are not the ones who stole this money, we are not the ones who played this money out to my friends, we are not the ones who have made all this money disappear in corruption cases, but rather the last 25 years, including, for the second time, you and your appointed people, who are responsible for this, have been eliminated. Orbán said not long ago, a few years ago, that he saw Gypsy as a hidden resource. Let's ask ourselves, what are the hidden resources of? Whether the many billions from the European Union or the Hungarian budget can be removed, or whether they would have the resources to whom he was likely to have thought, or what he was likely to think they could be intelligently integrated into the Hungarian economy and do value-creating work? The role of Flórián Farkas, who I would like to say is an open book, but we cannot say that his file is encrypted, we know that Árpád Göncz has been pardoned by the President of the Republic. The question is, how long do you put up with it, the question is, how long are you willing to cover up for such a series of common-law thefts, such a public-law crime wave? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-23-16	Thank you. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, responds to what has been said on behalf of the Government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-23-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'd like to split my answer into two parts. On the one hand, he talked about a specific case, the. Bridge in relation to the project on the world of work, and on the other hand, about issues related to Gypsy in general. As far as the "bridge to the world of work" is concerned, we have tried to open the doors of the public as widely as possible so that anyone who wants to can look into the documents and find out. We ourselves have launched a regularity check at the Ministry of Human Resources. We looked at 150 items, we looked at 12 procurement procedures, we looked at 25 procurements below the public procurement threshold. In two cases, we had suspicions of irregularities, furniture purchases and use of cars. [[9.40]] In both cases, the Minister of Human Resources has initiated an irregularity procedure. We called on the project management to reconstruct the project organisation to draw up a proposal, and we called on them to organise dual training programmes. We have tried in every respect, as soon as any suspicions arose in the public eye, to carry out these investigations with our own system of tools, we have informed the public of this. One week, just as I went into the Ministry's building, I saw that Congressman Ikotity had just come out, because that was when he saw the bundle of documents. The stack of documents is very thick or high, depending on how you look at it, which was created in connection with the program "Bridge" in the world of work. So, in addition to the maximum transparency, we have sought to provide everyone with insights and information about what is clearly within the remit of the Ministry of Human Resources. You're a very easy advance on crimes, Congressman. In the Hungarian legal system, we can say these things a little slower legally, because there is a long procedure in which we can talk about probable cause, and if there is reasonable suspicion in the court later, we can talk about crimes. We tried to meet anyone's need for information and documents. So I trust that in the future, if anyone has any questions, they can turn to us, look at these documents, there was no secret or concealment on our part. What could be issued, we published where an investigation could be initiated, we started where lots have already been submitted for settlement and are not legally admissible, of course we will recover them with the applicant, which has not yet been paid by the sponsor and are trying to account for, and there will be no payment if for some reason this would be irregular. So it's completely the legality that's typical here. I do not think that many other such support schemes can be said, where similar suspicions have been raised over the last 25 years and the procedure has been so transparent, so we have provided even opposition representatives with access to the documents. I think it's quite unusual, it wasn't really typical for anyone to look at these documents before. There is no doubt that the proportion of Roma among poor people in Hungary is higher than the proportion within the whole society, but it does not mean that every gypsy is poor or that every poor gypsy is poor. Indeed, about half of those living in the Gypsy line live in poverty or a third of those living in extreme poverty. [[Noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] That's what we need to fix. This cannot be done otherwise than by education, training or job creation. This is why, for example, from September, we are introducing compulsory kindergarten care from the age of three, which is why everyone from the age of three must be enrolled in kindergarten, not only for the children of gypsies but also for the children of people with non-Gypsy poor fates, as their abilities can develop from the age of three to the age of three, and these children can also receive regular healthy meals before school. But it is also important to create jobs. If we look at it, and the latest survey of the Tarki contained a very spectacular figure on how many families of Roma origin there are where neither parent has a job, we can see from the Tarki survey that this ratio has decreased from 48% to 27 percent over two years. So now only 27 percent of Roma families are where neither parent works, while two years ago that was 48 percent. We could say that less than half of it has been reduced to a little over a quarter, fortunately. It's the only way. After all, if the Hungarian people in Hungary want to live better, we want to live better, we want to benefit the whole country, it can't be different from the fact that Gypsy people, not Gypsy people, can work more. Without offering employment to everyone who lives in poverty, and this is completely independent of their origin, the whole country cannot do better without it. I think that this direction is worth following. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In Hungary, a good anti-poverty policy must be pursued, and such problems that arise among Gypsies can be solved much better in the long run than any racial discrimination. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-23-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and to have a quieter conversation, to allow the remaining speeches and answers before the agenda to take place under undisturbed conditions. To speak before the agenda, Ferenc Gyurcsány, from the Fidesz Group, when will he pay back the money he received from the European Union? Mr Péter Ágh. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It has been said several times between Parliament's walls that the work of the Hungarian government within the European Union is one of the most important ones on the part of the Union's bodies. The European Commission regularly counts our country on the basis of misconceptions. Unfortunately, we must conclude that this type of double standard is not only visible among the Member States. While the EU bodies keep the right-wing Hungarian government under constant monitoring, the company of the former opposition Prime Minister has received a mandate from Brussels to oversee government work. With regard to the unacceptable procedure, it is safe to say that there is a disguised party financing. [[György Balla: That's right!]] This is because Altus Zrt. He paid a HUF 180 million dividend to Ferenc Gyurcsány last year. EU funds also flow into the same company, from which, obviously, dividends can be paid. And we know that the former socialist, currently the party leader of the Democratic Coalition, is financing his own party as a contributor. It is difficult to believe that the European Union bodies did not have information about the applicant's active political activities, and therefore Altus Zrt. He financed Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, the Democratic Coalition, with a budget of HUF 1.5 billion. I would like to remind you that the case is unfortunately not unique in Europe. The former Bulgarian Socialist Prime Minister Sergey Stanisev and his wife won EU tender funds in 2013 under nearly the same conditions. Like Stanishev, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his wife did not indicate any conflict of interest to the Union. At the time of their questioning, both interested parties referred to the open tender procedure. However, there are two significant differences in the case. Firstly, Stanisev did not want to investigate his political opponent, and secondly, following the action of the Union, the Bulgarian ex-president terminated the contract and repaid the sums previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, We can therefore rightly expect Ferenc Gyurcsány to follow the precedent of previous years and to repay the EU's amounts obtained illegally under general public uprising. Otherwise, it would be desirable for more caution to be examined in future by the evaluation bodies, to whom the funds are being allocated in order to avoid similar future cases. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-23-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. On the part of the government, the answer is given by Secretary of State L. Simon László. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-23-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, our fellow Member Péter Ágh drew attention to a serious problem, and I am particularly pleased that Ferenc Gyurcsány honoured us at today's meeting and listened to my fellow Member's speech. On occasion, we see Ference Gyurcsány in the House, he comes in to vote, otherwise he does not participate in Parliament's work. Thank God you're here today, and you can hear the legitimate suggestion made by Péter Ágh in the name of many, many Hungarian Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say to you that the debate before today's agenda has also shown that the socialists are not willing to face the problems that concern European public opinion, are unwilling to face the reality that dominates Hungary today, and which, by the way, is causing serious problems with immigration along our borders. Apparently, the socialists continue to cover for Ferenc Gyurcsány, the Gyurcsány Ferenc, who feared Hungarians with 23 million Romanians, by denying the Hungarian nation's parts of Hungary, our Hungarian brothers and sisters, who had broken out of the border. Today, we heard our fellow Member, Lajos Korózs, shouting at the speeches before the agenda, calling the national consultation posters Nazi propaganda. [[Lajos Korózs nodds. Agnes Kunhalmi: It is!]] He's nodding right now. He's confirming it right now. Ladies and gentlemen, We have to face that problem in this spiritual environment. [[It's a lot of noise. Agnes Kunhalmi: We must face you!]] we have to face that problem in this spiritual environment. [[Continuous noise from the benches of the MSZP. Crying from the benches of the MSZP: Don't lie so much! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What do you consider yourself to be? The president's gonna ring the bell.]] , to which our fellow Member Péter Agh...
u2015-06-23-22	Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State has the floor, and I ask my fellow Members very much not to interfere with the speech by their conduct.
u2015-06-23-23	Thank you very much for your help, Mr. President. So in this context, ladies and gentlemen, we have to face the problem that our fellow Member Péter Agh rightly draws our attention to. [[9.50]] There is no decent Democrat in Hungary [[Agnes Kunhalmi: A family member whose family is not abroad!]] who would accept it - and I am addressing it to you too, Mr Gyurcsány, because you are very fond of using the term "democrat," there is no decent Democrat in this country who can accept that the European Union should make a party financing of our common public money. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Ferenc Gyurcsány: You're right about that!]] There is no Democrat in Hungary who can accept that in such a situation, a former Socialist Prime Minister, DK-president [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: DK! That's it!]] The European Union and the European Commission should ensure that a company owned by 100% of the companies is guaranteed such a standard. It's a shame we can't agree with. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the moment that my colleague Péter Ágh mentioned in his speech before the agenda. The former Bulgarian Socialist Prime Minister received EU support under the same conditions in 2013 [[Németh Szilárd István: Much less!]] However, the Bulgarian Prime Minister repaid the aid. He terminated the contract and repaid the aid. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, when the payment of that HUF 1.5 billion order began, [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How much did you give to Simicska and Andy Vajna? How much did you get?]] The beneficiary of which, as consortium leader, is Altus Zrt., owned by Gyurcsány Ferenc 100%, and the Hungarian democratic public now rightly expects Ferenc Gyurcsány to give up this money, Ferenc Gyurcsány's company will terminate the contract and do not accept the money it has awarded to the European Commission. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: Give up your wine cellar too!]] Ladies and gentlemen, The other day I listened to an interview with Ferenc Gyurcsány, where he himself admitted to supporting the Democratic Coalition with his private money, his private assets. This is the right of your heart, you can do this, we are pleased that you admitted this to the public in Hungary. But since Ferenc Gyurcsány's declaration of assets shows how much dividends Altus Zrt. receives, it is rightly presumed by my fellow members of the government and every Hungarian Democrat in this country that his dividends will thus be increased by the money awarded by the European Commission, which appears to appear in the next step as support for the Democratic Coalition. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: This is no longer your level, Mr. Secretary of State. It's really down there!]] That is why I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is unacceptable for the Government to give the consortium led by Altus a mandate of EUR 5 million to review and monitor proposals in Hungary, and the Hungarian Government is asking for a review of this decision. To do that, we ask for the support of all decent Democrats. We also ask the socialists not to double standards, to stand up for the government as democrats, to stand up for all Hungarian people, and to call on Ferenc Gyurcsány not to accept this money from the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Time's up!]] In our view, in this situation, [[Move. The president's ringing the bell.]] the European Commission has not acted with due care, and we are therefore re-initiating a review of this decision. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ferenc Gyurcsány, Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Péter Kónya applaud. A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-23-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We will now continue our work with decisions. Once again, please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. Ladies and gentlemen, The final vote of the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2016 will follow. The submission was made in T/4730. was given to them. Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of Parliament is T/4730/604. It sent a single proposal to the President of the Fiscal Council. Opinion of the Council on the grant of prior consent T/4730/608 Number 2 is available on the network. House rules are 36. I give the floor to Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, who will speak from here on the platform. With all due respect, Mr. President. Come to the stand. [[It's happening.]] I give the floor to Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, who will speak from this platform. With all due respect, Mr. President. Come to the stand. (It happens. ) Mr President, you have the floor. It's got a ten-minute time frame.
u2015-06-23-25	Dear Parliament, Mr President, On 16 June 2015, the Speaker of Parliament sent a single draft bill on Hungary's central budget for 2016 including the introduction of amendments adopted by the Parliament. Under the Stability Act, the Fiscal Council requested an opinion on compliance with the rules of public debt and a preliminary contribution under the Fundamental Law to the final vote on the draft budget law. The Council examined whether the final vote version of the 2016 draft budget law was in line with the declining requirement of public debt set out in the Fundamental Law and decided unanimously at its meeting on 19 June 2015. In this regard, it concluded that, on the basis of the draft single budget law on Hungary's central budget for 2016, the government debt at the unchanged exchange rate was projected to reach the end of 2016 [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] , in proportion to GDP, meets the requirement of a reduction in the Fundamental Law and is in line with the expected economic and general government processes for 2015 and 2016. The expected GDP growth for 2015 and planned for 2016 is based on a realistic projections. The Board therefore gave its prior consent under the Fundamental Law to the final vote on the 2016 Single Budget Bill. He authorised his President to inform the President of Parliament in writing of the decision, and also asked him to express his position on and justify the preliminary consent of the Council at the plenary session of Parliament. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Please allow me to do my last assignment very briefly, just for a few minutes. Compared to the bill submitted, the changes in appropriations adopted affected the total revenue and expenditure in the same amount, so that the changes did not change the cash flow deficit of the central subsystem. The lack of public finances in line with the EU methodology has not moved. As a result, the sovereign debt ratio calculated in accordance with the Stability Act remained identical to that contained in the draft bill of the Council's opinion in the single budget bill, thus achieving the sovereign debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law, which is the condition for the final vote of the single budget bill. Please allow me to have a look back here. In its opinion on the draft budget bill, the Council stated not only that the government debt-to-GDP ratio would be in line with the basic law. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It also indicated that the current indicator would not comply with the requirement of the debt formula of the Stability Act, which should have been taken into account for the first time in the establishment of the 2016 Budget Bill. The application of the debt formula that has been contested for years would have had difficult and negative consequences for public finances and thus for economic growth. In order to avoid this, the Council proposed a revision of the debt formula and, stressing its counterproductive effect, considered it necessary to abolish or amend it. I thank you for the fact that this House has also taken into account the Council's recommendation when, on the basis of the government referral, it amended the Stability Act's debt formula rule in the package of laws establishing the implementation of the budget with a view to bringing it into line with the stability aspects of public finances and the sustainability of growth. Although he was well informed about government and external professional ideas, the Council did not want to take a position on the details of the regulation. [[10.00]] However, I still consider what I stressed at the beginning of the general debate: although budget policy and procedure rules are more often created everywhere to deal with crises, they should also facilitate recovery, and it is appropriate that certain flexibility and adaptation to national conditions apply to the rules and to their compliance. Dear Parliament, In the reasons for the Council's decision, it pointed out that although there are slightly decreasing reserves of budget implementation compared to the bill submitted, safe performance requires the implementation of measures to improve the efficiency of tax and collection work and to prevent the accumulation of tax deductions, as well as careful management of expenditure and reserve appropriations during planning. The Council also concluded that the budgetary deficit could be achieved by reducing the increased allocation of the National Defence Fund at the time of its submission by the same amount, including by providing cover for the alignment with the changing tax laws. At the same time, neither the appropriations for extraordinary expenditure nor the chapter stability reserve have been cut off, so that adequate reserves are still available to counter the risks. At the same time, however, the Council maintains its view that the target orientation of the reserves should be improved, i.e. in the future, it would be appropriate to define the risks to be addressed by each reserve. On the other hand, as a cover for additional expenditure, the allocation of other sales and exploitation revenues has been increased, so that the rule that links the creation of revenues with the start-up of investments and improves the design of asset management in order to ensure that the revenues provided for by law are available in a timely manner. In several cases, other expenditure appropriations to compensate for the increase in expenditure have been reduced. These included two top-up appropriations to cover the redemption of guarantees. In these cases, overdrafts may occur during the year, which should be offset elsewhere in order to maintain the deficit. In general, the Council also considers it necessary to reduce the number of appropriations opened from above and other solutions, such as the use of framework management, to address possible overruns. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to thank you for reminding me, as I did in the opinion of the draft budget bill, that the panel could now build on a very extensive analytical and expert background. I thank you again for your work. In addition to the evaluation of the State Audit Office and the National Bank, the Secretariat reviewed the documents prepared by the Hungarian analytical institutes, took into account the updated economic projections of international organisations and the evaluation of other relevant market participants and even the opinion of civil professional forums. Finally, when drawing up its opinion on the draft budget, the Council also fulfilled its task of assessing the situation of the second half of 2014 of the implementation of the central budget and the expected evolution of public debt, so it does not intend to issue a new assessment in this respect. The Council has set itself the objective of assessing the relationship between restructuring and public finance in its analysis of the first six months of implementation of the 2015 budget, which is expected to take place in early September. Finally, I thank you for the correct cooperation with the Ministry of National Economy and for your commitment to preparing the budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause for the pro-government, sporadic applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2015-06-23-26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Again, I would like to call your attention, please check that your voting card has been properly placed in the voting machine, because the final vote is now on. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the T/4730/604 sent to the President of the Fiscal Council. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal 119 yes, 63 votes not, without abstention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Dear Parliament, It follows the final vote on the draft Act between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on the participation of Iceland in joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland during the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4836 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 181 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. The final vote of the bill between Hungary and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the abolition of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income and property taxes will now follow. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/5032 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 182 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The final vote on the draft law on the publication of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Harassment and, in this context, on the amendment of certain laws will now follow. The submission was made in T/5034. has been received by my fellow Members. The rapporteur was Mr T/5034/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the IT network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/5034 accepts it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 179 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows the final vote on the publication of the annex to the European Agreement on the International Road Transport of Dangerous Goods and the proposal for a law on certain aspects of its domestic application. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/5045 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 180 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. It follows the final vote on the bill of 26 May 2000 in Geneva on the publication and domestic application of the Rules annexed to the European Agreement on the International Inland Transport of Dangerous Goods. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/5047 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 180 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. [[10.10]] A final vote on the draft law on the publication of the Annex to Appendix C to the Protocol of 3 June 1999 amending the Convention on International Carriage by Rail in Vilnius and on certain aspects of its domestic application follows. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/5049 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 179 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The final vote of the bill on the publication of Council Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources follows. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5138. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 131 votes in favour, 24 against and 25 abstentions. The 2015 XLII on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies follows. Final vote of the bill amending the law. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4899 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 141 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstentions. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the draft law amending certain laws to promote the development of the financial intermediary system. The submission was made in T/4393. Number 2 is available on the IT network. In view of the fact that, at our meeting on 9 June, the National Assembly did not accept the parts of the summary amendment and of the bill requiring a qualified majority, the Legislative Committee T/4393/17. It submitted a revised single proposal. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee before the final vote T/4393/19. and T/4393/20. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. The house rules are 55. On the basis of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on a proposal for amendment before the final vote by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4393/19. The amendment tabled before the final vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4393/19. The amendment tabled before the final vote. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment before the final vote by 118 votes in favour, 40 against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In doing so, we will decide on the revised single proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended T/4393/17. A revised single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the revised single proposal by 117 votes in favour, 39 against and 24 abstentions. Next up is CXXII of 2010 on the National Tax and Customs Office. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/4742. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4742/13. T/4742/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 5, 6 and 7. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó and Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 117 against and without abstention. I would like to put Amendment 6 to the vote, proposed by Tamás Harangozó and Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 114 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 7 is also proposed by Tamás Harangozó and Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 118 against and 23 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4742/13. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 142 votes in favour, 15 against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4742/15. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes in favour, 41 against and 23 abstentions. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain transport-related laws. The submission is T/4888. Available to all of them on the IT network. T/4888/5. and the summary report by T/4888/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4888/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 142 votes in favour, 37 against and 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4888/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 142 votes in favour, 38 against and 1 abstention. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to Act C of 2000 on Accounting and to the bill amending certain laws on financial matters. The submission was made in T/4852. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. T/4852/5. and the summary report by T/4852/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4852/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes in favour, 4 against and 53 abstentions. [[10.20]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4852/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 147 votes to 4, with 29 abstentions. Next up is the XX. of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/4824. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4824/5. and the summary report by T/4824/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4824/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes to 13, with 50 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4824/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 118 votes in favour, 37 against and 26 abstentions. Next up is the XX. of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company. T/5017. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Benedek and Ms Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The LMP Group proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Benedek and Ms Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 120 against and 26 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5017. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 146 votes, 7 against and 27 abstentions. Next up is the 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport. and the final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending the related laws. The submission is T/4887. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4887/6. and a summary report by T/4887/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 2 was tabled by Balázs Ander. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 2 was tabled by Balázs Ander. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 123 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4887/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, 26 against and 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4887/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes to five, with 57 abstentions. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill on other non-rail rail transport. The submission is T/4886. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4886/6. and a summary report by T/4886/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 was tabled by Balázs Ander. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 was tabled by Balázs Ander. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 119 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4886/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 148 votes to 29, with three abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4886.9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 168 votes to five, with six abstentions. The decision and final vote on the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the bill amending the rules for the allocation and targeted use of the emission trading system for the Hungarian State follow up. The submission is T/4819. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4819/6. T/4819/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4819/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 121 votes in favour, 33 against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4819/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 34 against and 29 abstentions. The 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information follows. Act LXIII of 2012 on the recycling of public data. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission was made in T/4681. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4681/5. and its summary report is T/4681/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4681/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 145 votes to 30, with three abstentions. [[10.30]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4681/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 143 votes in favour, 32 against and 3 abstentions. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending the laws concerning certain public assets. The submission is T/4853. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4853/5. and a summary report by T/4853/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4853/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes to 31, with 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4853/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 122 votes to 56, with two abstentions. It is now time to take the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws relating to the production of grapes and wine. The submission is T/4856. Number 2 is available on the IT network. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/4856/7 and T/4856/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Zoltán Gőgös. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 114 against and 25 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4856/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] ♪ I'm gonna say ♪ resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 144 votes to five, with 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4856/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 145 votes to 4, with 31 abstentions. It follows a decision on certain issues concerning the organisation of the agricultural markets, on the proposal for a summary amendment to the draft law on producers' and interbranch organisations, and on the final vote. The submission was made in T/4854. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/4854/6, and its summary report T/4854/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T4854/6. The Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote on point 9 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on this and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In point 9 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up an opinion on Article 8 of the bill. A new paragraph 7 is proposed. At the request of the Fidesz fraction, we decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 9 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 23 votes in favour, 131 against and 26 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4854/6. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 143 votes in favour, 6 against and 29 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4854 accepts it. Changed bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 145 votes, 4 votes against and 31 abstentions. Following up now on certain issues relating to the procedure relating to agricultural, agri-rural development and fisheries aid and other measures (Article XVII of 2007) a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/5039. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/5039/6. T/5039/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5039/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 146 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5039/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 143 votes in favour, 4 against and 31 abstentions. Here comes the 1994 XLV on war care. T/4972. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Gergely Kulcsár and György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 125 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4972. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 176 votes against, 1 against and 1 abstention. [[10.40]] In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. It is now time for disciplinary action to be taken. Dear Parliament, XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly Law 48. On the basis of paragraph 4 of Section 4, which states that the chairman of the sitting shall inform the National Assembly of the exclusion and the grounds thereof at the next meeting of the National Assembly, I respectfully inform you that, as chairman of the meeting on 17 June 2015, H/5139 on the prevention of hidden party funding and the safeguarding of confidence in the institutions of the European Union. Because of their speech in the general debate on the resolution proposal No. 48, which contains an expression of a flagrantly offensive expression to the ethnic community, Mr President Novák and Mr György Szilágyi, my fellow Members, who have already been referred to as members of the law. I excluded the remainder of the day of the meeting pursuant to paragraph 3 of paragraph 3. The text of the legislation states that if, in the course of the Member's speech, Parliament uses a flagrantly offensive term, or the offensive expression used by the Member, the authority of the Parliament or of a person, group, in particular a national, ethnic, racial or religious community, or the term used by it leads to serious disorder, the chairman of the sitting may propose the exclusion of the representative from the remainder of the sitting without being ordered or warned. The minutes of the exclusion are also available from the Parliamentary Journal and from the website. In view of the fact that Parliament did not have a quorum, decisions on exclusion are set out in Article 48 of the Parliament Act. Paragraph 4 of this Article is replaced by the following: Now, on the basis of the second turn of the same provision, we decide on the legality of presidential decisions without debate. Dear Parliament, First, we decide on the legality of the President's decision to exclude Mr President Novak. I ask the Honourable Parliament to determine the legality of the presidential decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has determined the legality of the ruling on exclusion by 142 votes in favour, 24 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the legality of the presidential decision to exclude Mr György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to determine the legality of the presidential decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has determined the legality of the ruling on exclusion by 140 yes, 23 no votes, without abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Take your seats. [[Move.]] All my fellow Members, who are now leaving the Chamber because of their urgent official duties, I ask you to do so as quietly as possible and with respect for our fellow Members who have been debating. [[A moment's pause.]] Dear Parliament, The 2007 CVI on state assets follows a series of steps. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The submission is T/5046. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed debate T/5046/2. They've already received it. I will ask Mrs Lászlóné Németh, State Secretary, if she wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I would also like to point out to the Secretary of State that she has a ten-minute time frame, which should be divided by her speech and, if at the end, by her closing address, between the two. Madam Secretary of State, please.
u2015-06-23-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The proposal before you provides for an amendment to the Law on State Property by the Minister responsible for coordinating government work to amend his powers of regulation. I would like to point out, as I have said a few times in connection with this, that the independent decision-making powers that we are talking about here relate exclusively to the role of the Prime Minister, which has already been exercised, that is to say, the Minister would receive these powers only in respect of the companies under his supervision. It is also known to you that the role and responsibility of the Prime Minister's Office has increased since the 2014 parliamentary elections. With this amendment, which is now in front of you, there is an opportunity for regulation to adapt to the changed government work, and this is happening in order to simplify and streamline decision-making processes. Once again, the transformation of the powers of the ministerial regulation in question is, therefore, a fine-tuning work, justified by the new function and expanded function of the Prime Minister's Office as the Trust Centre. [[10.50]] For example, due to the legislative amendment, the construction of a complex system of national public utility services, the necessary acquisitions and cross-checking of sectors can take place more quickly and more effectively. You must see this on this basis, and I ask you to see this in it: the proposal you are going to vote on is not for itself, but it also has an indirect and direct impact on the ability to implement processes as quickly and effectively as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-23-28	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The timeframes will appear on the board. I would also like to inform you that a two-minute comment is not possible. For the first time, I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Congressman Roland Mengyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, the aim of the proposal is to modify the powers of the Minister responsible for coordinating government activities in the exercise of ownership rights over state-owned corporate shareholdings, but, most importantly, in order to perform more effectively - and to highlight one of the most important examples and areas, like the Secretary of State - the organisation, construction and related tasks of the national utility service system. You all know that in recent years we have made significant progress towards achieving affordable energy prices. Since 2013, the prices of residential natural gas, electricity and district heating have decreased by 25 percent. The First National Public Service Company. It was created to contribute to the long-term maintenance of the conditions for the reduction of the rent and to keep the public utility charges of Hungarian consumers at a fair level, in order to protect the national interest. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The amended regulatory powers of the Minister responsible for coordinating government activities, as set out above, are aimed at ensuring more efficient, faster administration, allowing Hungarian households to calculate affordable, predictable energy prices in the future, for example. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-23-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Szakács is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, I also told the other two proposals, which concern the same thoughtfulness, that the Act on the Hungarian Development Bank was amended in order to give János Lázár a free hand and to give instructions to the Hungarian Development Bank, and the Hungarian Development Bank must implement what János Lázár defines for him in his decree, saying in Hungarian resources, legal instruments and everything must be ensured by the Hungarian Development Bank in order that if he points out to one of the companies the Prime Minister's Office, he can obtain it. Yesterday, we were discussing two companies in the first round of the property law that had not yet been brought under the Prime Minister's Office. This was the First National Public Service Provider referred to by the Central Data Processor and my fellow Member; and now this is the third law, which also broadens the right to regulation in the ministry led by János Lázár. In addition to being slowly concerned that this is part of some political game, that János Lázár is buried in the files, or that he and his ministry have some superpowers that are able to see through, plan, redesign, or make sustainable, as my fellow Member Roland Mengyi said, which is unsustainable. This is gonna be an interesting fight. I can see the question in your eyes, I'll tell you. Our utility companies, the utility companies that you have put in a corner under the heading of the reduction of the rent or in terms of non-profit, not defined at any closer, currently owe about HUF 1000 billion of loans to banks financing it. These companies owe money to banks that, at times, had to lend a loan so that they could pay the utility tax you imposed. This will not go on for too long, even if John Lazarus will make a decree on how these companies operate. Yesterday, I asked a question to the Secretary of State. Today, I will just mention that, according to Commissioner Katainen, majority state-owned companies will not be able to participate in the distribution of the Juncker Fund resources, which we know is about all about infrastructure development, even if they do not devote this amount to network development. Madam Secretary of State assured me that these funds would not be used for network development. I don't think that was a comforting answer. Hungary is moving in a different direction from where Europe is going on this issue. It should also be noted: I think that increasing efficiency is a good thing. Simplicity and speed, as I said yesterday, I think are aspects of cooking, not in designing and operating such systems. These systems need to be operated very accurately, very efficiently and, of course, well, because I think that the person who puts this on his neck is XXI. He's doing a lot of business in the century, but he's doing things that are natural for everyone. The bureaucratic system, I think, can, of course, be stripped to a reasonable degree, can be broken down, rationalized, and made more efficient. You are not rationalising this bureaucratic system, but you are completely demolishing it in three offices: it is decided in one, it is formulated in the other, it is approved in the third. This is how this regulation is going to work, in general, and it will be excluded from the control of Parliament in its entirety what you consider to be the most important. You can do it in three to four days, but in a week, you're sure to make a law or you're about to change a law, and if it's done for good, no one's ever stopped it. I think that, to a reasonable extent, we should at least maintain the bureaucracy that we consider to be bureaucracy in a good sense, which means that a state has organizational power and a state has organizational capacity. For this government, too. I will wonder if you will succeed in maintaining this organizational capacity when you are installing a superpower, wealth, and incredible political and economic potential for a minister, with which you really are thinking that we do not know what the purpose of the authors who themselves ask you not to have authority are asking you to have no insight - this was the Ministry of Development yesterday, and János Lázár will probably look out from behind a file pack once in a while if you get this huge task on your neck. Anyone who does this much is gonna make a mistake sooner or later. We hope that he will not fail, even I trust him, even because the energy supply of Hungarians, the public utility supply of Hungarians is more important than playing your political games here. If you guys have a problem with each other, I think you should take care of it at home, so you don't have to make a law. Thank you very much for your attention. We will not support the proposal.
u2015-06-23-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members who else would like to speak at the expense of the time frame available. [[For signal:]] Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-33	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The proposal before us is about a regulatory power to ensure more efficient and faster administration and also reduce administrative burdens. We have heard the conspiracy theory of the MSZP representative. Of course, that is not the case, and I am very sorry that you do not support this proposal, because this proposal is actually about the population, it is about affordable energy prices and it is about fair public utility charges, because these increased tasks, which justify extending the scope for regulation, are precisely about the organisation and construction of the national utility system. [[11.00]] I think that the government has tabled this proposal for the benefit of the population, which is something that the pro-government representatives and I think those Members who look to the interests of the population must support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-23-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, asked for the floor of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. An inaccessible system is, in our view, virtually something that makes social control impossible. Minister Lazarus has in his hands a power, either placed in a quotation mark or perhaps without a quotation mark, for which it is not clear today that the objective is to bury the file or to control everything. We don't know what the goal is, but we don't think it's right or right. It is not good that if the rights can be taken by the Minister at will, transformed, varied or do anything with him, he can take direct measures concerning any economic company, courtesy of the Hungarian Development Bank. One word, like a hundred, the possibility of checking and making an account becomes more difficult and more complicated. It is not random that the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support such draft laws as this one, which is about the amazing concentration of asset management. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-23-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member László Szakács also asked for the floor from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-37	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would say to Zsolt Nitrai that conspiracy theories will later be revealed whether it was or not. The government is responsible for his predictions becoming self-realizing predictions. I'm asking you to remember that. This proposal is not about making something transparent, the service will be fair and the service will be available! Without this proposal, isn't it? There's no service today, and you didn't fight the rent, and you don't have any success in it? We don't think so either, but at least you saw that question yourself. No, it's not that. This is about three proposals in a row, one after the other in the general debate, being distributed for at least two days today, in case anyone doesn't realize that three proposals are mainly about the same thing. There will be an omnipotent ruler of the Hungarian public sector, which, by the way, can cover most of the entire spectrum of the Hungarian economy, and you will take out one of them, and this is the utility service right now. By the way, the Hungarian Development Bank will deal with real estate development and real estate, according to another proposal, which is related to this proposal. So this isn't about that at all. It's about putting what we have under one person. The question is, what is the purpose of this: to make it work, or to let this one man fall under it? That's why I'm saying that if you have an argument like this, you'll solve it at home, so you don't have to make a law. And once again, I would like you to answer how all Hungarian utility companies, especially those owned by the local government, will pay a thousand billion forints for their own taxes. I didn't hear an answer. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-23-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will now ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have 7 minutes and 47 seconds. [[Mrs Lászlóné Németh: Thank you, Mr President, I do not wish to react.]] Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our later meeting. Next up is the 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The submission was made in T/4682. Available to all of them on the IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/4682/6. was given to them. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr László Tasó, if he wishes to speak now. He doesn't want to speak. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. The representatives' speeches are followed, the timeframes can be found on the table. Well, there's no sign of anyone in writing. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, has indicated his wish to speak. I'll wait for Mr. notary from here to come down to the Chamber in his place and place his card there. Here, now you have the opportunity to speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your understanding and your patience. I would like to make three points on the draft law. With regard to the e-card, the need for the introduction and production of various personal data, the address, the facial image, the signature, were the ones in the starting position that seemed essential. According to current knowledge, there have been changes in terms of signature. I would like to express our joy here in that the government understood that, in terms of signature, perhaps those who have certain control powers on the move do not possess those characteristics, not graphologists, so that they can verify this, especially in the case of a young child or young person, when signatures also suffer a great deal of change in a good sense in a short time. So one word as a hundred, there is also a positive part of the last week's period in this regard that there have already been changes in this regard. But in addition to all of this, this story starts with the optional use of the e-card, but it is quasi, in fact, virtually this faculty is falling into the coercion, since the possibility of using the benefits can only be achieved through the use of the e-card. So in this sense, the kind of faculty that you were talking about before, before the introduction of the law, was practically jammed. In that sense, you can't talk about it anymore. There is no optionality, there is a need for the introduction and use of the e-card in order to justify the benefits with regard to its exclusivity. The other part is in terms of support for tolls: in particular, priority tourist centres for which there will be no duplication. With regard to the use of entitlement, when a supplier will be entitled, by not receiving the support, they will be given the kind of exchangeability that he does not have a rival or competitor on the market. We don't think, we don't think it's the right thing to do. But not only in priority tourist areas, but also on other routes, this can be practical. My summary sentence is that people, residents, are faced with the removal of travel preferences, and this is not a positive news overall, and I think that not only as news, but also as a positive activity. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-23-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zsolt Nyitrai is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-41	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The EU Regulation is binding and directly applicable in the Member States from 16 June 2015 and is therefore amended for the purposes of harmonisation of the Passenger Transport Services Act. The amendment to the legislation on passenger services in 2012 is of the utmost importance, since the proposal includes, in addition to the provisions of the EU Regulation, the amendments that have been required since the date of the adoption of the law due to a change in the regulatory environment. [[11.10]] In order to ensure an efficient use of public funds, the proposal extends, in the context of the future introduction of the electronic ticket system, the right of data processing and access to Community transport services to the national mobile payment organisation and to the scope of the data necessary for the accurate clearance of journeys in Community transport as well as for the verification of the right to travel benefit. In order to improve the quality of public transport, it includes, inter alia, electronic complaint handling, water transport development, and introduces the possibility of providing self-sustaining public services only in areas otherwise adequately provided with public services, without public funding, on a market basis. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-23-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There are already well-functioning models for the use of the e-Transport card in many European cities, but according to this proposal, the use made compulsory for the justification of the benefits goes against the principle of the preferred option. So this is not the good solution we see elsewhere. It is appropriate to transpose certain practical rules relating to the use of the e-card in Community transport. However, in this context, the underlying content will be enshrined in the electronic card regulation law, so it will split up, it doesn't seem to be what it should be. Its text is still rather flexible, it is also off the agenda of the Legislative Committee, in view of further codification work. So now the House wants to make one half of an otherwise proper law. This makes it difficult to judge how the whole thing will work. The problem is that it forces people to use the electronic card, and thus, contrary to the otherwise appropriate optional use, the only way to justify transport benefits would be to use an electronic transport card, which makes it indirectly mandatory. So we believe that this technical solution goes against the original right optional goal. So we suggest to the government that you work on this, make the discounts checkable in other ways, say, the replacement, and anyone who doesn't want an electronic card, because he's a stranger to his usage, so let's make it a traditional way to use the discounts. The other part of the proposal is that the rules aimed at eliminating duplication allow, if public transport between two municipalities is already provided in any form, other direct transport services that are likely to be non-transferable, so that even more convenient and faster, would not be financed separately by the State, but would grant an exclusive right to operate that route to a private operator which would operate on a market basis. The State fare subsidy will therefore not be eligible for other recipients, but in return, the company that will be designated for alternative transport will be able to operate without a competitor. However, the justification is misleading, as it would be possible not only between priority tourist centres, but also on other routes to reduce state aid, practically: to eliminate it. Where there is rail transport, there is no bus or vice versa. The opinion of the MSZP fraction is that the use of Community transport should not be reduced but increased. Therefore, both in the area of available opportunities and in the area of support for consumption, for example, we consider it necessary to provide additional discounts for access to work, or for the service provider, to provide preferential tickets or travel tickets for work, or to bring a bill that allows or encourages employers to make free or support the transport pass and ticket required for their work, in the form of other discounts, such as tax incentives. Thus, the MSZP fraction agrees with several objectives of the proposal, but at the same time we find it unorganized in the area of the use of benefits, that the electronic card becomes mandatory, and that we regard as insufficient the support that Community transport users receive for access to work. We recommend all of this to the attention of the wallet. If they are included, these contradictions will be clarified, not reduced, but expanded, we will support them. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-23-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Tasó, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary, in a ten-minute time frame.
u2015-06-23-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, What is included in the proposal is primarily to bring the law into line with the EU regulation on new rail passenger services. It also includes detailed rules for assessing the economic equilibrium of passenger services. It also provides clarification on the rules of data processing. It also includes the promotion of electronic complaint handling. It also includes clarification of the scope for the development of water transport. It includes the elimination of State funding for unjustified duplication without prejudice to the basic public service provision. It's all in there. But there is no chapter on the withdrawal of benefits, and there is no chapter on the introduction of new benefits. [[Dr. István Józsa: We miss this!]] So we need to take a good look at it again, and I would like to ask you with respect to support our proposal, depending on this and to re-examine it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-23-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. It follows the 2011 XLIX on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Act CXXIII of 2007 on expropriation Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The submission is T/4889. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. Report by the Judicial Committee as designated committee on the detailed debate T/4889/4. was given to them. I will ask Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, whether he wishes to speak now, or just in the closing section. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you very much in the closing remarks, Mr. President.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. The speeches will now take place, taking into account the timeframes on the table. I give the floor first to Mr István Tukacs, from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With regard to the general debate and the summary report, I can say that we are facing a necessary change. It was also mentioned in the debate that it was actually about the case of the.lex Scentos Road, in Hungarian about the need to resolve an existing problem by law: the elimination of a company that has gone bankrupt, otherwise storing dangerous materials, and the elimination of the threat. [[11.20]] With this bill and the government's intention to protect public money for this, we agreed in the debate. We also agreed because obviously expenditure must be reimbursed somewhere, since it cannot be double irresponsible or not only irresponsible companies, which is harmful, always covered by public money. In addition to the approving and supportive proposals, I have mentioned one aspect - and I know that the summary report is obviously not part of it - namely that the bankruptcy law, the financial settlement, is important, but we also need to look at the health aspects, because only the protection of public money and the liquidation, the removal of the specific threat, has not yet taken all measures. I would like to recommend this one aspect once again in the context of this debate to the attention of the government. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-23-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Józsalstván also asked for the floor from the MSZP group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, István Tukacs, has rightly said our opinion on this concrete proposal that this is necessary. In fact, we believe that this could be a forward-looking legal guarantee to prevent cases of extreme environmental damage that could not occur. So this is very important to me, as a member of the capital, in the case of Scentos Road. I wanted to say this in any case, but also - and I say this to the Secretary of State as the head of responsibility of the Ministry responsible for this area - that we believe that the entire bankruptcy law would require a recast. In the last three or four years, there has been an enormous increase in the number of bankrupt businesses that have ceased to exist, and there are many of them, if you would be allowed to use this common term, which would be worth a better fate. So I would also like to make a proposal to the professional wallet, but I would also like to say to Mr Ákos Kara, because he has an information communication dimension and an employment dimension, and in the previous term he led the Employment Committee. I believe that a revision of the bankruptcy law is necessary by putting reorganisation first. Therefore, the primary consideration should not be that, at the end of the bankruptcy proceedings, the insolvency administrator will receive the percentages due to him, but, as stated in the German bankruptcy law, first and foremost, the further utilisation, the saving of jobs, and the continuation of otherwise meaningful, valuable production activities should be the primary aspect of the bankruptcy law. To do this, we consider it possible to have a government reorganisation fund. Of course, we do not mean distribution, but let's say, a tender option, a reorganisation fund that can solve temporary problems. I know there are examples of this, such as the Gyula Flesh Combin, there are times when the government has dealt with such, let's say, rescues. But in part, the success or failure of these shows that if at a certain stage of bankruptcy protection a person takes on reorganisation and can use additional legal guarantees, such legislation, as I have said, could primarily serve, based on German experience, to ensure that jobs do not disappear, do not disappear to such an extent, and that a certain proportion of companies, some parts of which are unfortunately bankrupt, can be treated more flexibly. At the moment, the law prohibits a viable part of the liquidation, i.e. the current legislation is just against the possibility of a viable part being given further operation. So, at the very least, this legal prohibition should be resolved and the legislation should be shaped in a direction in which reorganisation is not punishable in the first place, but supported, and further operation of otherwise marketable activities should be supported, without ruining the whole. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-23-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. An expression by the Member may be misleading, and I would like to resolve this misunderstanding. Congressman, you said you were a metropolitan representative. You are a Member of Parliament and not a member of the Metropolitan Assembly. [[Dr. István Józsa: Thank you.]] It's a clarification. [[Dr. István Józsa: Fitness.]] Thank you very much. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you very much, yes.]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-23-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me first of all to thank you for your support in both the general debate and the previous speeches. With this bill, we really wanted to provide an effective and rapid solution to the liquidation of Budapest's Chemical Works Ltd. The environmental problems of his smelly travel site. At the same time, the aim of the bill, as mentioned earlier in more detail, is, in addition to the specific case, to allow the new provisions to prevent similar cases in general in the future, as well as the rapid and effective removal of environmental damage. The bill will enhance environmental protection in bankruptcy proceedings and winding-up proceedings, and will take measures to ensure that the costs incurred by the State to remedy environmental damage are at least partially reimbursed during winding-up proceedings and any expropriation proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to what has just been said, I would like to say that the ongoing professional review of bankruptcy proceedings, as is apparent from this proposal, is the task of the government. I would like to point out that, when implementing proposals which are otherwise appropriate, the limit of the prohibited aid should therefore be taken into account. It is therefore clear that the government's objective of bankruptcy proceedings must be to prevent potential environmental damage such as this, if economically possible, from being maintained in the highest possible number of jobs. At the same time, it must also be taken into account that public intervention also has an EU framework. However, the discussions will be taken into account in the forthcoming work of the Government, including in relation to the health consequences or measures. Thank you again for your support, and I would ask you to do so also in the vote. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-23-52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken at our later meeting. Next up is the 2007 LXXIV on the rules for broadcasting and digital transition. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The submission is T/4787. The Parliament's IT network is available to all of us. Report by the Committee on Culture as a designated committee on detailed debate T/4787/2. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to ask Secretary Ákos Kara whether he wants to react now or in the closing room. [[Ákos Kara: At the end!]] He will want to respond in the closing words to what has been said in the debate. I would like to inform this House that the designated Committee on Culture has not presented a rapporteur. The speeches will now take place in accordance with the time frame shown on the tables. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have registered in writing. I am giving Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi the opportunity to speak from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[11.30]]
u2015-06-23-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to so many other Fidesz measures, this bill is about how a government can harm not only by its indirect operation but also intentionally. The real aim of the bill before us is to further hinder the collection of programme fees for commercial media, thereby making it more difficult for these media to operate. The creators of the bill seem to understand precisely that commercial media can rely on two important sources of income: advertising and programme fees. In the advertising market, the state centralizes its own spending, imposes extreme taxes, and here, on the programme fee side, simply renders collection impossible. Just to make it clear to everyone who will vote on this in Parliament: the programme fee market is twice that of commercial advertising. By the way, it's called extortion in other ordinary law states. Since 2010, the Orbán government has done two things not only in the field of media regulation, but in the entire Hungarian economy. First of all, he doesn't keep his promises. With regard to media regulation, the government is breaking a concrete promise, as it has been publicly agreed that programme fees can be collected again by closing the digital transition. The second is the impossibility of independence. We have a public media that costs HUF 80 billion a year, which works at a lower standard than the propaganda of the Kádár system. It may not be clear to many in this Parliament, but it is the job of the media to criticize the government at all times; if the MSZP government, then it is the Fidesz government, then it is the government. If the government wants to deprive the media companies of their revenues - and it doesn't matter whether it's doing it now by preventing fines, advertising tax or the collection of programme fees - it will deliver televisions and thus the citizens to the government's convenience. Obviously, this is the aim of the proposal and therefore the MSZP cannot support it exactly as we opposed the media law or advertising tax. Mr President, thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-23-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr István Tukacs, Member of the MSZP Group, on a time-frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to add to my colleague Kunhalmi's speech that the government's attention could otherwise turn to influencing the content of the content. By this I mean that many valuable, otherwise consensual, content could and should be broadcast on a public basis, and it would be desirable that less valuable, even socially not useful, content would be tried or forced out by other and metastatic government tools. I think that this should be said, because I believe that rather than financial regulation, the introduction or non-introduction of various taxes or fees, it would be better to deal with what public service or commercial media are broadcasting, and especially to whom, and if this does not seem too pathetic, how this affects the peace of mind of our children and even our own development. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2015-06-23-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I now give the floor to State Secretary Ákos Kara, who will respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In contrast to what has just been said here by the left-wing opposition, I will briefly tell you what it is about and why I think it is good in Hungary in general if we adopt this bill. This proposal aims to increase the number of free TV broadcasts. Currently, eight free-to-air broadcasts are available for citizens without a cable TV subscription, while in neighbouring countries - we have been able to talk about this with few speakers but relatively detailed - there are more such channels, up to 12-13. I said during the general debate, and I repeat that in Hungary, a harmful contract practice hinders expansion, i.e. the increase in the number of people's free TV broadcasts. This practice deprives the television channels contained in pay-per-view packages, which would like to broadcast their programmes free of charge at the same time. This amendment prohibits this harmful contractual practice for the future. Our aim is to create two or three new free channels in the coming years between free broadcasts. Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, in the spirit of non-emotionalism, the parallel with the Kádár system, what to do, what to do on public television, what to do on public television, I would not be concerned with this part at all, this law is not about evaluating the Kádár system, nor about what broadcasts should be made on public television. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that during the general debate, there was a kind of insult from the left-wing opposition to public media viewers, consumers of the public service channel. I think the opposition on the left should be able to account for that. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-23-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. We now have the debate on the Commission's report on the establishment of national strategic objectives to promote effective action against contact violence. The submission is H/5048. Available to all of them on the IT network. Report on the detailed discussion of the Welfare Committee as designated committee H/5048/5. All of them received it. I will now ask Mrs Katalin Veresné Novák, State Secretary, if she wishes to speak. [[Katalin Veresné Novák: No.]] No, thank you very much. Then in the closing word, you will have a ten-minute time frame. I would like to inform my fellow Members that Mrs Bangóné Borbély Ildikó has been invited by the committee to present the minority opinion formulated in the designated Committee on Welfare. So I give the floor to the congresswoman with respect. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I am very pleased that you are here, Madam State Secretary, because in the last debate, Madam State Secretary said that she does not understand the spirit of the opposition and opposition parties, if they have problems with the law and the budget, then why do they not submit amendments. Last time, State Secretary Péter Banai Benő read to us how irresponsible we oppositionists are, because we have tabled so many amendments to the budget that this is at the limit of irresponsibleness. Then what I could say to Mrs Secretary of State is that I do not understand the spirit of the government, because I thought that they were talking to each other at the State Secretary level, or that there was some kind of communication going on in the various ministries. And I would add that we have also tabled three amendments to this law as the Hungarian Socialist Party - this has also been said in the debate - but unfortunately, Madam State Secretary, the same thing that has happened with all our other amendments, that they are essentially sweeping it off the table. In fact, we had a problem with the Istanbul Convention that, within 30 days, the Judicial Committee did not put it on the agenda at the committee meeting, that is, it wanted to put it on the agenda, because it appeared at the points on the agenda, it was only taken off the agenda on a proposal by its representatives, so to speak, the committee broke the law and then replaced the agenda. I think that we also talked a lot about why we should call domestic violence, why domestic violence had to be renamed as domestic violence; so we can define it in a broader sense, because violence is not only carried out within the family. I think that we can talk about this a lot, but the case in Hajdú-Bihar County exactly this weekend shows what the problem is, the incident in Balmazújváros, where no one thought it was a good family, no one noticed the problem, and from one moment to the next, the father killed his two minor children along with his wife, and then committed suicide. [[11.40]] So, what I said in the debate, too, is that unfortunately everyone in Hungary stands for this problem by keeping this matter inside the gate and within the family. This is a much bigger problem than continuing to do so. I will tell you what we wanted to do with our amendments for the next 90... or nine minutes. We will not be able to support this law, we will abstain. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-23-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The speeches will now take place in accordance with the time-frame on the table. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. First, the speeches will be made by the Members who have signed up in writing. With all due respect to Mrs Bernadett Wind, it is also announced in writing. So thank you very much. The first from the MSZP group will be Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. You have nine minutes of time, Congresswoman, please.
u2015-06-23-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to talk about our three amendments, what we have submitted, what we wanted to amend this law in; our criticisms have already been formulated in the debate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Parliament invites the Government to take action to combat contact violence effectively, taking into account the following national strategic objectives: (a) financial and human capacities need to be ensured in order to combat contact violence effectively, taking into account the budgetary possibilities at the time; . This is where we have amended. (b) effective action against contact violence is possible through effective cooperation between governmental and non-governmental actors; c ) particular emphasis should be placed on prevention, especially the objective of preventing young people from becoming victims and perpetrators; ♪ ) the protection, support and effective and sustainable exit of victims from crisis and violence situations should be ensured according to the specific situation of the victims, with particular regard to the interests and rights of children who have been directly or indirectly victimised; e ) to ensure, where possible, the number of crisis centres and half-way exits in accordance with needs, taking into account the appropriate geographical distribution. (h) the training of professionals dealing with victims, perpetrators or potential contacts must be ensured on a continuous basis, not to seek it but to ensure that they are trained, in particular with regard to the training of professionals belonging to the child protection signalling system; (i) take into account the specific needs of victims of contact violence in judicial and administrative proceedings; (j) it is necessary to encourage all members of society to participate in the fight against violence in relations; it is a strategic objective to raise awareness; In the debate, Madam Secretary of State also said how many ways and where to turn for victims, I think that we have a lot to do in this, and perhaps we should not be able to call the emergency lines, but to strengthen family protection professionals, the local professionals, who are integrated into the existing signalling system. We always say how important it is to strengthen the signalling system. (l) the aim is to establish research, surveys, data collections and to ensure that the measures are subject to professional control. Here again, we have to tell you the only data that is now said to have 25 unexplored cases in one revealed case. I think it's a very, very terrible data. And we also had two other amendments:, The Parliament invites the Government to review, by 31 July 2015, the existing government-level strategies for combating or defining objectives or tasks in connection with domestic violence and, if necessary, to amend them with the objectives set out in point 1 and with the establishment of a national strategy for preventing and effectively dealing with domestic violence 45/2003. in accordance with a parliamentary decision. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Our third amendment: Parliament withdraws its decision of 2003 on the establishment of a national strategy to prevent and effectively tackle domestic violence. I believe that these amendments should have been eligible on the committee's part, but the same thing that has happened in all the committees in order to vote against the opposition Members' proposals and proposals for a decision amendment. I think that there was no malice in this, which we have put forward in these amendments. It is very important for the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party - personally for me - to be able to offer as soon as possible and as many solutions as possible to this problem so that it cannot happen week after week, so that one can read those news, or perhaps face the problems that are the subject of relationship violence personally. I think it would have been good if the committee had voted in favour of these amendments, unfortunately it was off the table. Nevertheless, we continue to do our job and try to see if these voices can reach the ears of the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-23-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the group of the LMP, Mrs Bernadett Szél will speak in a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-23-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, we are in a very interesting situation, because I too had to work hard to figure out how the government had this idea at all, that it would put such a decision proposal on the table, and then the general debate itself was very thought-provoking. We cannot in any way say that this proposal for a decision does not have a precedent, since it does, and this leads back exactly to socialist governments. Parliamentary resolution, the revision of which is, inter alia, referred to in Article 1657.2012. The government decision provided for and granted themselves a deadline by the Fidesz-KDNP government at the end of October 2013. It's past now, we're in June 2015, but in any case, this H/5048 was born. Parliamentary motion for a resolution, which, in many respects, carries on the mistakes which I believe would have been avoided at a hundred percent if this government had retained certain practices, which I believe would be necessary for democracy to function, such as consultation with civilians. In any case, at the end of October 2013, the deadline expired, and for a year and a half nothing happened, and then this 5048 resolution proposal was tabled, on which my most important criticism is that, apart from the fact that there are terms and issues of perception that I will refer to, and which I do not think will help to resolve this situation, it is not enough to be called into account, it is not concrete enough, there are virtually no commitments that we can see after a while whether they have actually been fulfilled or not, and in this, let us say, there can be a clear judgment of the House or of Hungary itself. I must refer back to the general debate on which we talked a lot about this parliamentary decision proposal, and one of my most important criticisms was that you had not consulted anyone before the referral. And I also called this a specific racial criticism because Article 9 of the Istanbul Convention itself requires that social and civil society organisations cooperate before you submit any documents. [[11.50]] And then the secretary of state said that the civilians were invited. Therefore, I have looked into it, and for the sake of fact, I would like to tell you what the citizens were invited to and how much they had the opportunity to speak. So, since 2012, the Human Rights Task Force has been in office at the government, and you've been running the human rights round table. This is essentially a body that makes such recommendations, a consultative body, and this has thematic working groups. One of the thematic working groups was the Thematic Working Group on Women's Rights; I looked at the meeting five times during the two cycles, the last on 28 April 2015. This was a reshaping session, which is why it is important in this respect, and there was no mention of it at this reshaping session at H/5048. on the proposal for a decision. After a long search, I found the link to the minutes, the minutes of the meeting itself, and there I found a question, the question of Women's Interests, who asked you a question about the Istanbul Convention. They specifically asked where they could join the preparatory work. The Secretary of State replied that a special task force was set up to assist the ratification process, this process is very lengthy, not only in Hungary, and the rest, and I could quote the Secretary of State here. But the point is what this special task force is, and that's what I'm most interested in, because it's standing there or it's failing whether or not the civilians are in this special task force; they're not there. So this working group on violence against women operates practically without any transparency, and I have a serious problem with that, Madam Secretary of State. I requested the minutes of this task force, and it was denied, the IM refused to issue it. All I have learned is that on 9 April, a report on the steps required for the Istanbul Convention was submitted to the Government, but neither this nor the preparation of the proposal for a resolution we have just discussed, neither civilians nor the opposition, and there was no consultation with a civil, professional or interest body, which in itself violates the Istanbul Convention. Now, Madam Secretary, if you had listened to these people, you could have avoided a number of situations that are problematic. For example, what is in (i) is that they discuss the importance of mental health and the strengthening of mental resilience. This is a misunderstanding of violence against women: it is not women who have to change, but women who have to be taken out of this repressive situation, they have to see the relationship of power, and they have to eliminate the repressive relationship. Moreover, it is very serious in this proposal for a decision that you believe that the resources should be provided taking into account the current budgetary options. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This is again contrary to the Istanbul Convention, which says that all the money must be given in order to eliminate violence against women and domestic violence. So we also have serious objections, Madam Secretary of State, dear Fidesz-KDNP, it would have been better to have a longer way of talking to people who really know how to do things in this country.
u2015-06-23-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Independent representatives will speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-65	Thank you very much. As a brief summary, I can talk about this strategy, the debate of which took place two weeks ago very long and exhaustively, as a kind of encouraging start on this issue, in this Parliament. It can be seen that the government has understood what the public, civil society organisations and politicians are saying, namely: violence against women is unacceptable, it is about power, and this government must also take every effort to ensure that in Hungary, which is one of the worst places in terms of violence against women at European level, most women and children are affected, there will be a substantive change, because in the last ten years, in fact, despite all kinds of legislation, there has been no positive change in Hungary, as many as ten years ago, and as many women and children involved. The strategy can therefore be interpreted as a positive step, but at the same time I find this draft, this proposal, lacking ambition. There are positive things in it, but the most important problem is that it does not fully use the excellent instrument of international consensus that Hungary has at its disposal, it does not continue the logic of the Istanbul Convention, it is not on the timetable that this convention offers to signatories. In particular, there are proposals in the strategy that look beyond the Istanbul Convention and try to implement third-way solutions, and the whole strategy is very soft, it actually makes proposals to the government, it cannot be called into account. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It doesn't outline a roadmap on what to do. Fortunately, a sub-committee has been set up in a sloppy manner, and I think that this subcommittee will be able to monitor carefully and comprehensively what the government will do in this matter. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-23-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Here are the speeches by the Members who have signed up with the push-button, and I will address the first of the Fidesz Group to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-23-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, On the part of the Fidesz fraction, we support the proposal for a resolution, because we are all committed to combating all forms of violence, namely tough and decisive action, and we are asking for your support in this too. There have also been statements in the general debate and in the debate on today's Commission reports that I, for my part, consider very positive. Of course, we will not always agree on everything, but there have been reports here that prevention should be given as much emphasis as possible, said Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. We fully agree that the basis and starting point of all this is prevention, which is also set out in this national strategy. I think that if we can find common points, common ground on which we can start and achieve our goal of effectively combating violence and, in particular, against violence in the relationship, it is a positive and a good sign. The need to strengthen the signalling system has also been said here in the debate, and we fully agree with this. It is not possible to leave the local professionals out of this work, but I note that the local professionals are doing their job now, and they are doing it with a strain of attention and time. We're open to further developing this. It has been said that more attention should also be paid to the training of professionals. Even in recent years, all professionals in this field have received training. Let's talk about the fact that the police, educators, professionals in any segment of the signalling system could take advantage of this opportunity and offer the state training courses for them. However, we can also agree that this is not enough: on this path, we want to spend additional concrete and serious amounts on further training. In the general debate, it has already been said that we would like to spend more than two billion forints from EU funds in this area, which will mean the expansion of crisis centres, training of professionals and the involvement of civil society organisations. I think we share the same idea. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I hope that the principles that this national strategy contains - and let me mention some of them now - are also one in which we can agree. The fundamental rights contained in the proposal for a decision are as follows. It recognises the importance of protecting human rights for all; this is included in the proposal for a resolution, and I do not think that anyone is arguing with that either. The resolution proposal states that relationship violence cannot be considered as a private matter. Here I would like to reflect back on the sentence of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, and we agree on this, and in the resolution itself, in the national strategy, it is particularly important that it is not a private matter that is happening in the subject of violence; wherever anyone is suffering, it should not be considered as a private matter. It's not personal. We'll say it and agree. [[12.00]] Definitely rejects all forms of relationship violence and is committed to eliminating abuse. This is also included in the proposal for a decision. It acknowledges that forms of contact violence are wider than mere physical violence. We are also thinking of spiritual violence and terror. It states that violence in relationships affects women and children disproportionately. At the same time, and this is a new element in the national strategy, and it is important to point out now that men can equally become victims of relationship violence. The resolution proposal confirms that relationship violence is a criminal offence, which poses a serious threat to marriage, family and children. We are introducing an element that has not yet been included in the national strategy, but we consider it very important. Children can also become victims of relationship violence by not being directly affected by physical or psychological abuse, but simply as witnesses in an act of abuse. It lays down the principle that it is necessary to continue mutual and forward-looking cooperation between individual government bodies and government and non-governmental organisations. It is highlighted in the proposal that mental health should also be of prime importance to families at all levels of society. The development of mental health and prevention of mental disorders are important social interests. Ladies and gentlemen, Bernadett Szél also mentioned that this current national strategy has a history. We can't argue with that. Yes, the 2003 national strategy is the basis for this proposal. From this proposal, we have included and included the current proposal for a decision, which remains relevant, which we still need to work on. There are such things. At the same time, he took out and updated the points that the previous government, governments, could say, have already done. Some of these are highlighted. Since then, the restraining order has been introduced into Hungarian law. Since then, the accelerated procedure has been ensured in the procedures of courts and authorities in cases of domestic violence. Witness protection rules have been strengthened or further incorporated into the law, making them part of the legal system. However, there are provisions that appear as a new element, as a target in the current national strategy. I'm going to mention some of these. It aims to ensure financial and human capacity in order to effectively combat the violence of relationships. The protection, support and effective and sustainable exit of victims from crisis and violence situations should be ensured according to the specific situation of the victims, with particular regard to children's interests and children's rights. And yet another very important new element in the current national strategy is that Parliament invites the Government to review all government strategies by 31 December 2016 and, if necessary, to start and start to modify them, to introduce these objectives, which we are now adopting in adopting the proposal for a decision, when the national strategy is adopted. To sum up, the Parliamentary resolution proposal mentions, in addition to the newly introduced strategic goals and among the objectives, the provision of financial and human capacity for effective action against contact violence, as I have already mentioned, since the availability of resources is a prerequisite for the effective fight against contact violence. Compared to what has been said before, it is a step forward that the proposal is not directly victim-oriented, but also takes into account the fact that the child present during the violence is injured even if, as I said, he is not directly affected by violence. According to the new principle, if the child is involved in violence in any way, he should be considered a victim and treated as a victim. We agree with all the objectives of the parliamentary resolution, the adoption of the national strategy. It should provide guidance for all sectors involved in the fight against contact violence to design, implement, possibly modify and further reflect strategic documents and measures in this area. We trust that this process, if the Parliament accepts it and my fellow Members become partners in it, will certainly bring forward our common basic objective, as expressed here today in the debate, in the general debate and in the debate of the committee. I would also like to thank you specifically for the fact that not only women's representatives but also men have spoken at various stages of discussion. I think it is very important, too, that the voice of not only women, but also men, be heard in Parliament itself, among representatives of the situation of women, their situation in the family. I mean, I think we're in this together. Allow me, fellow Members, to refer briefly to the Istanbul Convention and the subcommittee. A Sub-Committee for Women's Dignity was indeed established within the Cultural Committee of Parliament, under the name of NÉMA. But I don't think it's unprecedented. I myself participated in two debates involving women from several parties, from several political groups in Parliament, and I have already announced that we are preparing to set up a subcommittee that will specifically address the family and social situation of women. This was established within the Committee on Culture, and I am very pleased that four women and four men from the eight members of the subcommittee are involved in the work. I can promise so much in any way to all my fellow Members, to the ladies and to the men who signal this to me, that we will send a special invitation to our subcommittee meetings with respect - and not only on Parliament's website - if that is what they require, because we are counting on their work. With regard to the Istanbul Convention, it is just a thought that we do not think that the creation of a national strategy would or should put out the ratification process of the Istanbul Convention. As the Secretary of State has said in the general debate, we are already at the end of this process, and we very much look forward to it coming to Parliament ourselves. We believe that the two should be valid together. We hope that we will soon have a ratified Istanbul Convention and that we will have a separate national strategy, which we hope will be adopted by Parliament as much as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-23-68	Thank you very much. With all due respect, we will continue our work. As a pre-notified speaker, Mr Sebestyén Vágó is next, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Even in the light of the amendments, I can say, as I said in the general debate, how such nice strategies can be put in place, only when certain judicial or even law enforcement laws and legislations are only in the form of passwords, we will not go from one to the other. Good, of course, while there are changes in social law and the Child Protection Act, and perhaps more crisis shelters and more shelters can be created by the country for troubled family members. [[12.10]] But besides the fact that the police don't have the protocol and are unable to keep their distance, or until there's a protocol for what an alerted police officer has to do and how to do in such a case, he finds himself in a life situation in many cases that even a smart social professional couldn't solve, who has been dealing with it for decades in a family or child welfare center. So protocol has to be developed, protocol has to be developed, because there really are factual cases, cases where the arriving policeman at the scene misinterprets who the abused party and who the abuser is in that situation. From such a baseline, we cannot achieve a result. I can tell you about the amendments myself, as I said at the committee meeting - and I must agree with the author, which means changing the words in the proposal for a resolution - because since I am a Member of Parliament, we have discussed a lot of such proposals, strategies or strategies at the end of the term of the term, at the end of the strategic cycle, and as long as they are in conditional mode, the efforts in these proposals for decisions are quasi-conditional, so that we must strive to achieve them, we will not get one by one. At the committee meeting, I said that a lot of people laughed at it, but I think it's a valid analogy, that I can decide and strive to run the marathon at some point, but if my ambition extends to run three meters a day, I won't reach it, but if I set it as a goal that I want to run a marathon within three years, then I will build my strategy, and step by step I will take a greater distance every day. So as long as we strive for it, nothing will come of it, it will not happen, but if we say that this is the goal, and we have to achieve it, then it may come true. That is why it is understandable that we should not reject it, but that we should not reject the previous strategy with its entry into force, because there are points from that strategy that have not been implemented, and the two could run in parallel, complement each other, so that we might achieve a strategy for effective contact violence, a real strategy to curb and eliminate it. So I propose, although not our amendment, but I suggest that the Government consider these amendments and make a decision. I also suggest that we look at this with a view, with a global view, to try to apply the strategy to each area, to work out in each area the principles of operation, the protocols, the strategies that can actually help achieve the goal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-23-70	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr László György Lukács, Mr Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to put it in a legal perspective and a little more generally. In the debate on the national strategy, however, the arguments that we considered to be particularly important have already been made, and I would mention them even because they are always important to bear in mind. Overall, we can say that it has been almost 13 years since the memorable event when a young man named Balog Tomi started to fight domestic violence as a movement on 20 September 2002 and since then all civil initiatives have been built. At the time, Tomi Balog's father took his life after repeated abuse, after which he was taken, and I think the media centered even more heavily on domestic violence, and, by the way, this was the culmination of a case known to everyone, such as the case of Simek Kitty. That is why it is important that, at the end of this time, after 13 years, we repeatedly state what is very important. Jobbik points out that it is particularly important to avoid simplifying the distinction between violence and violence, whether in terms of gender or emotional or physical violence. That is precisely why it is important - and this is also shown in the case of Balog Tom - to draw attention to men, because very often they become victims of domestic violence. Of course, it is not the strong heads of the family that need to be thought of, but, for example, the younger age group or even older fallen men who are very often victims of emotional or even physical abuse in the family. What is very important is that we always keep in mind that emotional violence also occurs a lot, a lot of times. In my own, otherwise relatively short, legal practice, I have met several times that, regardless of gender and age, emotional violence was manifested, such as one of the most popular events of the past few days, in the life of the woman in Bora Bora, where the husband also held the family under a very serious emotional violence, and they are in a very difficult position to solve right now. Therefore, we would like to stress the vigilance that, in addition to the establishment of a national strategy, it is indeed necessary to retain the good tools set out in the previous national strategy and to keep a constant vigilance in this area, and to monitor how the elements of violence within the family change, if that is the case, because information communication, changes in the means of communication, all open up new spaces and new ways of these terrible acts. I would suggest to everyone that if we cannot maintain vigilance within ourselves, I suggest you always look at Krisztina Morvai's speech in the 2016 budget debate on the child protection signalling system, where she quoted one by one from the cases in which the terrible acts within the family were described in final court judgments. This will have to awaken the vigilance that we need from the very first minute and to continue after 13 years from the start of the movement. But I would also recommend to everyone that Krisztina Morvai, together with Kitty Simek, or wrote about Kitty Simek's case, we can say that it is an example of domestic violence, so they must be kept. Jobbik will therefore not expand from the fact that violence and violence must not be selected, and men should also be given the same important emphasis; and abortion, as a matter of course, must be kept on the agenda as well, since not only from the preamble to the national strategy, but also from the provision of the Fundamental Law itself, it is clear that children who have been conceived must be protected, and here, more particularly, with regard to domestic violence, will have to decide and shape legislation and legislation later. Overall, I agree with my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén, and I do not wish to add that. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-23-72	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In very short, not in repetition, I would just like to say that I personally believe that violence is neither within the family nor outside the family, so there is no place, no place, on the surfaces of the category of relationship violence. If I wanted to be a picnic, I would say that I would have to initiate the strengthening of the blinding de-comondor process and make similar sentences. I do not want to go deeper in this, but rather I want more intensive action against the existing problems, the existing violence. If that is what we want, if that is what we want, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has already indicated, we also have amendments in this regard, how and how this could be effectively implemented. Obviously, the priority of the issue is - that it should be implemented effectively - to have resource placements, not just to talk about how to solve the problem. Source and in a sense and to the extent necessary to address existing problems. The source alone is not sufficient, I consider it much more important even from the source how prevention, prevention and prevention work; I also see a disability in this, or rather a need for action. So prevention, source, and if we have experience data, and if we do, we should also take these experience data into account. So, for example, in the various regions of the country, how and how the existing problem comes back, let us say, in complexly disadvantaged areas, in isolated small settlements - and other approaches and discriminations can be made in this regard - and how and how it is possible to focus on this, it would all be worthwhile to do so. How and how to strengthen knowledge-raising processes in a good way, through direct training, as well as the integration of professionals as far as possible, the basis of their opinions and their integration into solving the problem, and the strengthening of the training activities of stakeholders. [[12.20]] So what I'm trying to tell you is that there are thousands of threads in my opinion of the story, but maybe we're talking about one very little. And that's the role of the media. The role of the media, which, I believe, can make a very, very, very big contribution to providing knowledge and - well, let me say - mediation of a norm system, which helps to ensure that violence is not dominant, in fact, in relation to relationships, domestic and non-family relations. I think we need to use energy for that, too. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-23-74	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. This debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs Secretary of State, if she wishes to react. It says yes. You have the floor, please.
u2015-06-23-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I am pleased that we are able to speak freely in this House about combating violence. I think this is a good debate, a sensible debate, and I am glad that we have partners in this. Too bad this isn't the case in many cases. As far as the content is concerned, I believe that our task and aim here are twofold. On the one hand, what you have all talked about is that we should focus on prevention. And when we talk about prevention, we talk about prevention, and I ask that we open this circle up a little bit, and not just talk about that, not just thinking about what is targeted at preventing sexual violence. I mean, how hard is this? By starting to raise our children in the public education system, from kindergarten, by teaching them values that we give them value-based knowledge, I am sure we can make sure that they later live along these values, and by doing so against the frequency or spread of relationship violence. Being part of our public education system as a teaching material for family life gives us the opportunity to do so. The introduction of ethics, ethics, and faith teaching gives us the opportunity to do so again. And in addition to the fact that we are conducting concrete prevention programmes, we have just launched a prevention programme for public education students that is already specifically focused on contact violence for children of the right age group from the age of 14. More than 2,000 children have already participated in this, and we will continue to do so in the future. It's all prevention. And indeed, we must think of the whole supply system here, and our task in the whole government work is to keep in mind the prevention of contact violence. And when we talk about prevention, there is another goal, and that is to help the victims. I mean, when it comes to relationship violence, there's always a rapist and there's victims, and in this case, we're always on the side of the victims. And we need to help these victims through the supply system, and it is important that they help us. And it is important, indeed, what you have mentioned, and I am glad that we agree on this, that we also train those in the care system, prepare them properly, and give the victims the assistance they deserve. Since they had substantive suggestions, I would like to give them, at least I try to, a meaningful answer. I would say to Mrs Bangóné that I think it is important, and I appreciate it when amendments are tabled. I would also like to respond specifically to what was tabled in an amendment. If we say something about setting the next national strategic goals, then, after that, I think it is clear that they are national strategic objectives. So the things you said are all listed as national strategic goals. The fact that we are now saying that these should be pursued was opposed to defining these as targets: they are also a goal in the current parliamentary resolution. The other point of substance was, in fact, not to withdraw the 2003 decision. The reason I disagree with this is because there was a 2003 parliamentary resolution, which is the tasks assigned to the government at the time, and most of it for the next year. And it is true that this was not fully achieved by the then government. We have reviewed these objectives and have incorporated them into the current proposal for a decision. So they're in this, too. I believe that this current proposal for a decision, this current strategy, is suitable for us to take stock of the goals ahead of us in the future, look forward and work together to achieve them. Mrs Bernadett Szél - and I would also like to respond here to Mrs Bangóné - that the not submitting of the amendments was, of course, not for you, but for those who have such comments, who have not tabled an amendment in this regard - I would like to clarify this comment on the working group on human rights here with Mrs Bernadett Szél. I think it's a good thing that there's a human rights task force, even better if it works so that civil society organisations can sign in to this. And by the way, some of the civil society organisations you mentioned during the last debate did not even register. Some have checked in, some have - one - participated in the work of the subcommittee. I think it is very good that the entire record of these committee meetings is public, because, as you mentioned, you found it on the Internet. So we really run this committee, we run subcommittees, we have a very wide participation of civilians, we could volunteer, and we also kept a record of the committee meetings that we are publishing. I believe that a greater transparency cannot be imagined, and if you have read it well, you may not have quoted the report here, it has also been said that if you have any comments, you should feel free to send it. We gave you the e-mail address, told you they could come to us at any time, look for us. This option was not used either by the civil society organisation there, even though this option was mentioned there at that committee meeting. I trust you will be more actively involved in this work in the future. By the way, as I mentioned before, we work with civil society organisations all the time, working together. We have just launched an awareness-raising campaign - with the cooperation of civil society organisations - on the subject of contact violence, and we are running our entire supply system with the involvement and partnership of civil society organisations. I also feel with Mrs Szelényi, that we basically - and I felt this from the comments - think the same thing at a lot of points. The importance of this issue, the need to talk about it, the need to deal with it, the fact that we can debate it in a meaningful way here in Parliament, this is our common objective, and thank you for being our partners in this. I feel that we have the same goals on many points, and you have also highlighted the need for prevention, which is also very, very important in my opinion. Mónika Dunai - and I would like to respond to her speech here - has long mentioned the results that the government has achieved in the last five years and the objectives that this new Parliamentary resolution has set. After all, let us not forget that, as of 2013, relationship violence - also the result of this government - has been a separate criminal case and that we signed the Istanbul Convention in 2014. This Istanbul Convention, as a legal basis, is also included in the current Parliamentary Decision, which, of course, could not have been included in the previous, since there was no Istanbul Convention. I would once again like to draw attention to what is in the current strategy: relationship violence cannot be considered as a private matter, relationship violence is a crime, a serious threat to the harm of marriage, family and children. I would not like to recall them again, but - I would also like to point out that children as victims, even if they are indirectly affected by violence, are particularly important, in addition to the various international conventions. And yes, we also consider the family's role in prevention and strengthening families to be important. In this, the government is invincible. I would also like to join Mrs Mónika Dunai in the establishment of a subcommittee dedicated to women's dignity, the Sub-Committee for Women's Dignity. This is an important step, and I trust that the establishment of this subcommittee in Parliament will make the work in this area even more dynamic, and, as I personally indicated to the woman representing it, I would also like to confirm here that I will, of course, be a partner from the government side of the subcommittee's work, and I will be able to be counted on in the future. [[12.30]] In fact, I have already responded to the words of Mr Sebestyén Csító in the debate, and I have mentioned our position with Mrs Bangón on their amendment proposal. Here I would like to say the suggestion of the Jobbik faction that men as victims are important, yes, it is currently in the strategy, and we also believe that victims should be taken into account regardless of gender. I think, in response to all the substantive points that have been made in the debate, that our objectives are common, let us say together that we need to act against the violence of relations, to set these common goals, and I ask you to support this Parliamentary resolution proposal, to be indeed a common strategic objective in which we can count on everyone as partners. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-23-76	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows the XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Congressman Erik Bánki, Fidesz, a separate motion by Mr T/5239. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, the author of the item on the agenda. Congressman, please.
u2015-06-23-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you is part of the process that the Hungarian government has started since 2010, and that is to clean up the gambling market, tidy up and operate in an organised form. The whole government's intention was to limit addicts, thus gambling, in some way, and this cannot be different than restricting access. The first step in this process was the ban on unlimited use of slot machines and the possibility of access to gambling in casinos and the state itself regulates the operating license of casinos by way of a public concession. There were many attacks on this government intention at the time, before the decision all sorts of theories and calculations came to light, according to which banning the arcades could lead to the closure of countless catering venues and a great deal of jobs would be lost in the countryside. Well, ladies and gentlemen, obviously you have seen in recent years that, after the ban on the arcades, nothing that these predictions flashed has happened, the small-town pubs have not closed with mass, the restaurants in which they used to be slot machines have not ceased. However, there is no doubt that gambling in Hungary has been significantly reduced, since people who previously had virtually no access to slot machines, especially underage people whose control at these locations was virtually impossible, well, they no longer have access to this option today, so the gambling addiction has been significantly modified by previous regulations. The current bill plans to clean up and clean up the organisation of the online market, the remote gambling, and to eliminate the state of this market in Hungary today. For the organisation of the remote gambling, only the 100% state-owned Szerencségy Zrt. and the concessions for the operation of the gaming casinos in Hungary will be held later in Hungarian, the foreign online betting offices whose betting platforms have been available so far will not be able to organise remote gambling in Hungary. From Hungary, it will be those with the Hungarian IP address who will then be able to access this type of services. We believe that with this measure, the black economy can also be significantly reduced in this area, as the state does not have a single penny of revenue from today's betting system. The Ministry of National Economy plans that, thanks to the tightening up, the current tax revenue of some 40 billion will increase by at least 20-25 percent in this area and reach HUF 50 billion. Therefore, specific financial revenue is expected from this amendment. The bill shows that the online casino game server, which is available in Hungary, can now only be located in the European Economic Area. This means 28 Member States of the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, and Switzerland, although not part of the EEA, is also involved. So it would be possible to place servers in countries where Hungarian bets are available, which are reliable countries, and in any case the service providers undertake to have direct access to these servers by the Hungarian tax authority, so that they can control that the tax advances on gambling revenues are paid correctly by companies that are entitled to organise gambling. As far as players are concerned, as I said, only those players can play, so only players connected to the online casino will have access to the online casino game from an IP address in Hungary, so we believe that the previous practice, i.e. the current practice, when anyone can bet from anywhere on the Hungarian platforms, can also be clarified. These measures, in my opinion, and in our view, will be forward-looking in the future. There are also technical amendments that are included in the bill, which, I think, are obviously subject to debate. I am absolutely open to the inclusion of proposals of a constructive nature in the final text of the bill in the debate, so I would like to ask my fellow Members specifically to do so, if they have such a forward-looking proposal, to discuss it, to endeavour to meet in all respects the expectations expressed by the legislative intention, which, once again, is to eliminate the black market in this area, to increase tax revenues, to create a clear and clear conditionality for the organisation of remote gambling. I could describe the examples that have ruffled domestic moods over the past few years. I've had it. In fact, there have been cases in international practice where game organizers simply disappeared with players' money. Therefore, I think that it is very important that the organisation of the online casino game should be entitled only to an organizer which has a concession, so that it already has a concession for the organisation of a casino game; market players whose operation cannot be guaranteed, whose tax payments or the management of the players' money cannot be adequately controlled, should not in practice participate in the organisation of this gambling. I think that the 100% state-owned Gambling Ltd. is still the one-percent state-owned gambling company in online gambling management. He's gonna be the biggest game planner. I think that online gambling, especially from the extra income in the sports betting area, can continue to support supply centres, sports that have already benefited from gambling revenues, are the Olympic and otherwise non-Olympic sports that offer hundreds of thousands of Hungarian children regular sports opportunities and opportunities to jump out by supporting not only supply training, but also competition sport. So to sum up, ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is a small country, I think that there is no need for too many market players. The two actors in the bill may be too strict, and I am therefore also open to adopting an amendment or amendment. The practice shows that the Gambling Company. in fact, it was able to offer a high-quality gambling opportunity and betting opportunities in the field of sports betting, otherwise in line with European conditions. This should be the subject of a debate as to whether the state monopoly should remain in this area or whether we should open the possibility to other operators by way of a concession. [[12.40]] I thought it was not necessary for too many characters, but once again, I am open to changing that. What is unacceptable, however, is that virtually anyone can do gambling activities on the Hungarian market today without any restrictions, without any regulation, and, as I said, the way in which the players' money is used should not be controlled, and that the legitimate revenues of the state should not be controlled, as I have said, by the way in which the public finances are used. I believe that this bill is capable of meeting these needs, I trust that by adopting it we will be able to achieve these very important aspects and thus increase the revenue of public finances and create redistributable resources. I look forward to the constructive views of all my fellow Members and ask you to support the bill I have tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-23-78	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Here you go. Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2015-06-23-79	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Member of the Council, The amendment to the law on the organisation of gambling, as Congressman said, could introduce the concept of online casino games and lay down detailed rules on online casino gaming. Under the rules in force, the proposed amendment regulates the online casino game known as a type of gaming remote gambling as an independent type of gaming outside the scope of the remote gambling. On the basis of the bill, the concept of remote gambling would only include online sports betting, while online casino games would include online casino games as well as online card games against each other and against playful software. The amendment grants the concession right to the online casino game to organizers with traditional casino concession rights by virtue of the law, while at the same time stating that the actual conduct of the activity requires the authorisation of the state tax authority. On the basis of the amendment, the online casino game would fall within the scope of anti-money laundering provisions, as in remote gambling. Therefore, the organisers must verify the accuracy of the player's data when registering for the game, in particular by means of an electronic data search from the KEKKH database of the Personal Data and Address Registry Authority. The organizer can manage the data needed to identify the players of the traditional casino and online casino game in a single database on the basis of the proposal. The proposal concerns online gambling management, which falls within the scope of the information society services for the purposes of the Technical Notification Directive 98/38/EC. As a result, the technical notification obligation on the proposal is being examined. If the proposal is to be notified to the European Commission in accordance with a technical notification procedure, the proposal shall be adopted and the final vote shall take place only after the expiry of the waiting period of at least three months. Dear Parliament, The government agrees with the discussion of the bill and proposes it to Parliament for consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-23-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, First, a few comments on the amendment of the law, a proposal. According to the general justification, it is necessary to provide the authority with the possibility of a secure direct connection from Hungary in order to verify the tax revenues of the State and to protect the players. However, the proposal submitted does not change much compared to the current one, because the online gambling market has already been allocated by means of a October 2014 bill and within the framework of the salad law governing this year's budget. The main element of the proposal is not to put online casino games in the hands of the Vajna family, but to remove online casino games from the concept of remote gambling, so in the future only online sports betting would be considered remote gambling. Online casino games will now fall into a separate regulatory category, which can only be organised by a concession company entitled to organise a casino game. In the future, the online casino game can only be made available to a player connected to an IP address in Hungary, and the organizers have to monitor the IP addresses of the players on a continuous basis, but this requirement will be untraceable by the operators. Much has been said by the rapporteur about the need to bring this bill to the House now. It has been said that the market needs to be cleaned up; gambling must be limited; the black market must be eliminated, tax revenues increased and we are a small country, with few players to participate in certain markets. With fewer players than in the gaming market, it can no longer really be; let's say, the two players are being reduced one by one, then perhaps we can say that it is quite small, because now there is Gábor Sima and Andy Vajna, who can run a casino in Hungary. The other, I'd like to read a newspaper article: According to NGM, this year's HUF 6.2 billion gaming tax revenue is expected after the eight casinos operating in Hungary, of which five casinos are linked to Andy Vajna, and there is another one in Sopron, Debrecen and Nyíregyháza. The toy tax is 30 percent of the turnover, so the entire market is estimated at HUF 20 billion. The World Economy www.vg.hu/farm/discovered-the-butter empire-448456"> estimates that Andy Vajna operates 824 money-winning machines in a total of 4 thousand square meters of basic land, with a revenue of HUF 15 billion in five casinos in Budapest. It's just an assumption. But that's just an estimate, because the vending machines are no longer equipped with the integrated control device, which would record the data, and there's no server-based connection. What is expected, let's say, at the grocery store, is that every item has to be inserted into the cash register, and the IRS sees it immediately, which is not subject to conditions with good buddy Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima. So, as long as the government is planning to introduce the cash register to the beauticians, taxi drivers and hairdressers, so that they can be clearly connected to the NAV, a $15 billion gaming machine business doesn't have to plug its gaming machines into a server. The state can only dissemble the proceeds, and the audit can be based on the fact that a surprise raid - which I can imagine in front of my mind that Andy Vajna's casino is going to NAV, which we would like to see - will be monitored by camera footage of these slot machines. So I join my fellow Member, they really cleaned up the market; it really couldn't have been better. It's the same game you've been playing in handing out the tramps. They said that it should be prohibited to buy cigarettes in commercial units, pubs and restaurants because they want to protect minors and reduce smoking in Hungary. The same thing happens so people don't play games, people don't live with gambling. You know, they keep saying that in recent years, you have seen the opening of the traffik as a success, because smoking in Hungary has been reduced. Let's not talk about how much tax revenue has been lost in the country, and that should be your problem now, how much tax revenue has been reduced. But the consequences of the consumption of tobacco purchased from the black market in public health will be incalculable; it is true that you will no longer be here when the consequences of this will have to be dealt with in Hungary in ten to twenty years' time, when the health-damaging effects of the government at the time, caused by the Traffic Act, will have to be dealt with by young people as well as older people from all kinds of illegal markets today. [[12.50]] I think there will be a responsibility for the government at that time, but you will no longer be able to see the action. The same thing happened at the toy market. I would like to list a few things - I said this last week in a debate. In 2012, there is a law governing the use of slot machines only in casinos. I just told you that there are 824 slot machines in Andy Vajna's casinos. In 2013, casinos can deduct their concession fee from the toy tax. Are you expecting more tax revenue from the slot machines or online machines, or less, if such a loss of tax revenue can occur on the part of a company? Indeed, we said that Andy Vajna is a very good, close friend of his and not just a friend of Viktor Orbán and his government, so he can be given different benefits. Andy Vajna, by means of Las Vegas Casino, gained only HUF 1 billion in extra income. Of course, it turned out that Anda Vajna's company won the operating rights of all five casinos in Budapest, and Gábor Szima in Debrecen and Nyíregyháza, who is also not so far from the Fidesz moonyard. In doing so, the State will waive the profits that have been made to the State itself through the Gambling Company. Then the law was amended so that the concession fee for casinos would no longer be VAT-free. I also said in the last debate that we did not reduce the VAT on basic foods, but we put a few more billion forints in Andy Vajna's pocket. Based on news portals, it is estimated that it will reach HUF 10 billion, thanks to the Fidesz-KDNP government. I told you then, that's when you can ask yourself why you should be grateful in the way of such a business. And then my fellow Member here talks about the elimination of the black market, the need to curb gambling. I do not know if my fellow Member saw the images circulating on the news portals when there are long lines in front of Andy Vajna's casino and it is impossible to get in for hours. So, have we, or have we not, suppressed gambling, Congressman? Or maybe it was only for the whole gaming market to be concentrated in one place, for one person, for business, not the tax forint that should flow into the state register, but into Andy Vajna's pocket. And this money will not remain in Hungary: today we read the news that Andy Vajna will immediately take it out of the country through various offshore companies. So it's a little cynical how you led up to this amendment of the law, that the fewer players you have to run this market, the more tax revenues the state should have. Last summer, I asked Minister Mihály Varga a written question that, if you support Andy Vajna's company and casinos in this way, then the tax revenue that may result from this - even if tax revenue is generated - is what the Ministry of National Economy intends to use it for. Then Mihály Varga gave me the answer to this question that they would give these discounts to Andy Vajna's company because then more people would play, more tax revenues would be generated from these companies, so that they would be able to spend more money on their children's meals. Mihály Varga said that last summer. We do not see this very large child catering support in the next year's budget, because such lines are not very much included in how much money will be spent on the increase in toy tax revenue, let us say, on the summer social catering. You pointed out that you would support the supply with this money. I find it outrageous that such a law is being brought here and brought here for such a reason, my fellow Member, to clean up the market, to narrow down the market. I can agree that gambling addiction or disease must be eliminated, only doing the same thing as what they did at the traffic dog. They're doing the same thing to him! And the consequences of this will be fixed in a few years, I say, and not by you. So, there is no way that the Hungarian Socialist Party can support this law, and I just ask the Member to be a little more modest sometimes. The way the Traficans were distributed, they destroyed families. You began your report by not closing with a crowd of pubs, closing no catering places. Your actions are built on one another, and, yes, I've been locked up in the countryside with a mass. By mass. I'm not a fan of going to the pub, but, you know, there are some small towns where it's the only place to hang out. And people don't go in there because they want to, say, drink themselves drunk. They were single places of entertainment, and when a job was lost, they also experienced a tragic experience. But it's built on each other to hand out the traffutty, to stop the slot machines - to add, I say, I'm against gambling. [[Márius Révész: We see!]] But not in a way, Congressman, to distribute the entire gambling business to one actor in the country or at most to two. Because that's what the whole law is about, giving more money, giving Andy Vajna more tax breaks. And I ask the question: Who else besides Andy Vajna will benefit from this law? You guys will, I hope, give me the answer someday. We will not be able to support this law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-23-82	Thank you very much. Our next speaker is the lead speaker of Jobbik, Congressman Zsolt Egyed, here you go.
u2015-06-23-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I was shocked to hear from my fellow Member Erik Bánki as the rapporteur of the bill. Honourable Congressman, I would like to make it clear - but you are sitting next to you, Secretary of State Tállai, you may be able to confirm me because you also live in the countryside - that there were a lot of pubs, liquor stores and presses in the villages, because these places were very simple: there was a toy machine in it at the time, which, if nothing else, has made up the rent of that liquor store, and don't give me, the worker's salary. Since it was gone, unfortunately, the liquor stores had to be shut down. And I would not like to confirm here that these slot machines should have been forced everywhere in any way, but here we are talking about giving everyone the opportunity to go to a liquor store and drink a glass of beer to throw 200-300 forints into that slot machine, it was nothing more. [[Márius Révész: Come on!]] But in order for everyone to be aware of what happened here, we need to go back a little bit to the past, and here, my fellow Members, who were Members of Parliament during the previous term, will certainly remember very well how and at what hyperspeed the Hungarian market was liquidated by gaming machines and gambling companies in 2012. In virtually two days, you have solved this by shutting down this industry in Hungary in practically a few days, with great secrecy, citing various security and classified things - which, by the way, is extremely simple because there is no need to explain. However, I would like to state here that thousands of families, tens of thousands of people in this industry have lived here. On the one hand, the owners, employees of gambling companies and, on the other hand, the owners, employees of the liquor stores to which these devices were placed and which provided a livelihood for thousands of families. [[13.00]] Here I would like to say once again that if someone looks at Hungary in the countryside, these places have been closed down, thousands of people and, if any, tens of thousands of them have been unemployed. And now, in your reading, this man may not be unemployed, because if he was a bartender in a Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county village, say, a hundred thousand forints, he may be working as a public worker for fifty thousand. You can't be unemployed at your reading - you should just ask the man what you think of this trend! But back to this bill, which you and my fellow Member Bánki have just tabled as a motion to this House, who knows the history of the Hungarian gambling industry, he knows very well that this has happened for nothing but to give a buddy or two to an extra income. If we look at this law that you have presented, then it becomes clear that the money that Andy Vajna and Gábor Szima can own through this business is considered to be a small amount of money, because it is estimated that only in relation to Andy Vajna it can be noted here that the Hungarian state received approximately HUF 15 billion in revenue from the five casinos last year, of which virtually HUF 6.2 billion will be enriched by concession fees. But it is still little for you, and you would like to give these two people the online gambling market, because the bill states that online gambling in Hungary can only be organised by those who have concession rights in relation to casinos. It would have been easier, my dear fellow Member Bánki, if it had been written in this bill that only Andy Vajna and Gábor Szima were entitled to organise an online casino game in Hungary. They could've done that, because it would've ended up the same way. It is an important moral issue, by the way, and it is important to note at this point that you do not think, fellow Members, that it would not have been a fairer procedure in an open tender to announce the possibility of operating these online platforms so that gambling operators who have been operating in this industry for more than twenty years may be able to make a living again until you have eliminated it. I believe that this would certainly be considered on a moral basis. I know you like to refer to reliability. I ask you, what makes Andy Vajna or Gábor Sima more reliable than the man who may have run such a company, led, say, for 20 years, and honestly paid taxes every month, paid contributions for his employees, thereby contributing to public finances with his paid taxes. I'm asking you, what makes the two of you more reliable. And I will say this only in parentheses about Andy Vajna, that he has an uncharted business background, and here my socialist fellow Member has told me, and I am of the same opinion that these money collected from the casino simply emigrates, leaves Hungary, and in Luxembourg or God knows where they end up, in Andy Vajna's secret accounts. I ask you, fellow Members, how much this system strengthens the Hungarian national economy, so that one person can hide billions, tens of billions, hundreds of billions, and hide them abroad, while in Hungary the taxpayers and the working taxpayers are on the verge of starving to death. Another very important thing, and it must be noted about the bill, is that if the dedication of online gambling to Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima is foam on the cake, then the strawberry is that you want to play the system of sports betting for them... [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] - Well, that's what the law says. I'm sorry. - I think it's outrageous. The other very important thing that caught my eye in the bill is that the concession-righted gaming organizer checks the IP addresses for online gaming to see if those addresses are eligible for online gambling. Ladies and gentlemen, You know what that reminds me of? When a tired shepherd asks the wolf to guard the sheep while he sleeps. I'm asking you what interest do gamblers have in checking and filtering IP addresses. Do you think this gambler is gonna put an apparatus on this? Will you take care of it? He will not deal with it, because it is simply in his own interest, my fellow Members, to deal with it. The other thing is that if you look at the Hungarian budget, from the point of view of the budget, if everyone thinks logically, it is not beneficial and it is detrimental to the budget to block certain IP addresses. You will only be able to continue this form of gambling with IP addresses logged in from Hungary. And then the question arises again, what about Hungarians across the border, what happens to them. So let's say, in the case of a Hungarian person who, as a result of the misfortune of history, is a Romanian citizen or a Slovak citizen or, if any, a Serbian citizen, they have already been excluded from this circle. I think that this bill is not just a work of my fellow Members, but I think that this bill is very vague and unthinkable, because we are presenting two amendments to the bill that fundamentally alter the whole method of the law, but, in the absence of them, this bill is completely unsupportable on our part. And I have to express our deep outrage at the fact that you're trying to get your friends back into the money, you want to give Andy Vajna, Gábor Sima, again, and you've forgotten all about the people who have been unemployed because of your activities, or your thriving business for 10 to 20 years has been kicked off their feet overnight. Once again, I would consider it a fair solution if you opened up the possibility of operating this online casino to everyone, and a professional committee would judge the applications, which, in every respect, considers as a matter of priority that the company will fully comply with the laws, that company will be a good taxpayer, and that company will be able to provide work for Hungarian people if necessary. I believe, and I think that a lot of people in this room are like this, because just because you put a few billion forints in Andy Vajna's pockets a year or a month doesn't mean that there will be more jobs in Hungary, there won't be any better livelihoods for people, and it simply doesn't increase the budget any more than if you open this opportunity to every competent company or company in the industry, where appropriate. Finally, what I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, is that I think that this bill should be withdrawn as it is and considered again, because I do not think that anyone in this House would want us to create casino oligarchs in Hungary after the trade-offs, the earth-oligarchs, for whom you are practically filling their pockets, in exchange for the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian budget, is not useful in this whole activity. Please, and I suggest that you consider it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.10]]
u2015-06-23-84	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling T/5239. The objective of bill No 1 is, as the author has already pointed out, to increase public tax revenues from gambling and, at the same time, to combat the widespread illegal gambling organisation through the means of communication and the system. The 2016 budget accounts for more than HUF 41 billion of gaming tax revenue, which is nearly HUF 8 billion more than last year's appropriations. On the one hand, the proposal sets out detailed rules for the organisation of the online casino by means of a communication tool and a system, so that the organizer in Hungary can legally organise an online casino game, and on the other hand allows effective action against the currently illegal organizers, as a result of which the current online casino market in Hungary will be whitened out as we hope, and the tax on illegally collected income and exported from the country will now flow into the budget. It is also important that no action can be called upon on the current illegal organizers, including the protection of minors or even player protection requirements, and that there is no control over which games the illegal gambling organizer uses, whether it ensures the proper management of the players' money, complies with data protection regulations or whether it is guaranteed, for example, to pay at all in the case of a larger amount of international jackpot. In international practice - when looking out - the game organizer simply disappeared with players' money on several occasions, so it is important that the online casino game is organised only by an organizer who has a concession for casino gaming. On the basis of Hungarian legislation, only games of chance can be organised for the territory of Hungary. Therefore, the proposal states that the organizer must monitor the IP addresses of the players and provide access to the players from the IP address in Hungary. This was also the question raised by my better colleague Zsolt Egyed, one of the areas concerned was the interest that the IP address would have in controlling the concession holder. Based on an interest that is mandatory by virtue of the power of the law. So one of the important elements is that you do filter out IP addresses that allow unauthorized access. This, as I referred to earlier, serves to make this area white, because there are a lot of illegal organizers on the market. I am also arguing with my fellow Member that there has been an action that threatens the profitability of so-called rural restaurants, which has resulted in the ban on 2-3-4-5 gambling machines operated at the restaurant, called one-armed robbers, slot machines and slot machines. I think there was another aspect of this that was very important. Unfortunately, as a rural representative, we have seen that in settlements where social aid was fed into these machines, we have a very different sociological view of what my fellow Member says, because when these were introduced into the winning machine instead of the family, there could not have been a worse situation than this. I think that there is no need to worry about those caterers who couldn't make it up to it, because then they didn't have enough ideas to improve their losses. I cannot accept this as an argument, and I think it was the right decision to withdraw those machines called the one-armed robbers from the system. The other point that I could actually go into semantic debate with Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik, is why my fellow Member thinks that this should be labelled, that Andy Vajna law, or the other person he designates, whose name I don't know right now. [[Defiance from the opposition benches. Zsolt Egyed: Two of them comply with this law! György Szilágyi: No way! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima!]] It's not a personal law. This bill serves to ensure that a concession can be organised effectively and well. You can yell, but I'm still gonna say it. In this regard, it is essentially the position of the State to increase efficiency in any case, and increasing efficiency does not involve starting to name names and making different assumptions with them. ♪ I think ♪ [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The law is written this way!]] That the other direction of this bill is... [[György Szilágyi: Who has concession rights in Hungary? Noise from the opposition benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I'm still gonna go through with it. The other point indicated by my fellow Member, Mr Bánki, is that, for example, sports betting, because everything is mixed up here again, more resources are available for sport, and I fully agree with that, because this is an important goal. Even though we're talking about transceivers, land, please, that's not what this is about. This question was made entirely out of a different motivation. A regulated system that enhances efficiency and optimises public revenues. I ask you to make proposals in this debate, as my fellow Member Erik Bánki referred to in his rapporteur's exposé that he was open to the amendments, perhaps even to the availability of people across the border. I think that sensible proposals can be made. At the same time, I ask you to support the bill before us, by making its substantive and acceptable amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-23-86	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, the notary of the Parliament, the lead speaker of the LMP, is next. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As the motto of my comment, I have chosen the following following, following the introduction of Mr Erik Bánki:. Many market players are not needed, it is enough to have two. In this case, Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima. Another bill by our fellow Member Erik Bánki came before the House. This time, the online casinos will be regulated and distributed at the same time. According to Fidesz's bad habit, its individual representatives have taken the form of a motion for an area that affects a multibillion - dollar market and raises several concerns. As usual, discussions and impact assessments have been cancelled again. We do not know what effects, consequences we can expect from the law, how much budget revenue we can expect if we choose this regulatory model and not another one; not that the author has calculated any alternatives. This is not simply an abuse of law, we have learned in the last five years: Fidesz usually reaches out to the instrument of an individual representative's motion when submitting an embarrassing, insane, non-professional presentation. It's no different now. It seems that Congressman Bánki has now become a spokesperson for very close friends of the Orbán system in the Parliament, whether it be the Tao discounts or the lack of transparency in the management of sports associations, the claim management fund for the compensation of the Quaestor victims who ignores the other victims, the World Water Championship tailored to István Garancsi, or the gambling regulation tailored to Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima. The congressman is doing a very costly, tireless job for the common good. You started by reorganizing traditional gambling on the road that led to the present proposal. And how nicely, elegantly they solved it! At first Minister Lazarus frightened everyone, cried out a national security risk. On the other hand, gambling machines were banned, while some casino concessions were distributed. To the wonders of miracles, in the hands of two people in total, Andy Vajna and Gábor Szima are now in the hands of all the casinos in Hungary. How the national security risks have changed? We do not know that, of course, because, at least in the case of Andy Vajna, the last four years have not been enough to carry out his mandatory national security screening as a government commissioner and as a beneficiary of an extensive offshore network. Casinos perform well, they seem to generate an average of HUF 3 billion each. I'm saying that apparently, because while the corner mall's cash is tied to the IRS, casino slot machines aren't available. [[13.20]] If Fidesz can divide the gambling business, then there's no need to be afraid of risks anymore? As regards the regulation of online casinos: Erik Bánki, our fellow Member, would give gifts to the same two people, Andy Vajna and Gábor Szima, since an online casino - a total of two - can only be opened by those who have a traditional casino concession, so we can easily name it on this basis. That's what this law is about. Everything else is a technical detail. It is a small step forward so that online casinos can be monitored continuously by the tax authorities, but this is not enough to talk about well-thought-out, moral or minimum acceptable proposals. This personalised legislation, the support of good comrades, the artificial redistribution of markets again for many times - as Fidesz has allowed us to get used to. This policy has not been supported by the LMP and will not be supported by it. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-23-88	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, spoke as a pre-notified speaker. Here.
u2015-06-23-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We have heard a lot of beautiful things here in the speeches by the pro-government representatives and in the speech by the rapporteur. It has been said how important it is to protect young people, that support for reinforcements has been said - because this money will be available - transparency, increased public revenues, and even Mr Galambos has moved on because he has also spoken about protecting minors. These are such beautiful words, both very beautiful concepts and goals, but this law is not about that at all. Again, this law is nothing else - Congressman Pigeon says that it is not a personal law, that people do not have to name it, but they do. - It's a personalized law, because every single paragraph of this law applies to two people, it's called Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima. Of course they should be named. No one else in this country is subject to this law at the moment, and they are affected in this form, as you have submitted. Otherwise, it is said that it should be made much clearer and more transparent. I agree with that. It should be made more transparent and clean, and there should be no need to put the mood on by bringing in these laws. It could have been solved simply, since Congressman Bánki also said that the good thing is that there should not be too many players in the gambling market. Well, don't be. Give Andy Vajna the entire Gambling Company, that would be the easiest thing to do, and then we wouldn't have to deal with laws. You can tie him up so much, he'll have to take Gábor Sima as a partner. Slut! And from then on, we've solved this whole problem for life. Gentlemen, that's what this is about. Erik Bánki says how good it was that the slot machines were gone, from then on young people had no access to gambling - and then we started talking about online gambling. All the young people are using the Internet! All the young people had the opportunity not to have access to it, but they had just passed, say, online gambling. Then the clear conditions and everything else... I swear, what you have brought me here to this Parliament not only with this law, but also with a lot of other laws, I would be ashamed of myself if I were to sit in your benches. Several forums since the change of regime have been heard several times between the walls of this House, according to which the change of regime was the systematic plundering of Hungary, the traipsing of companies, the playing-over of the internal market to foreign hands, the unscrupulous and obscene enforcement of individual interests by state resources, against the public interest. These are phenomena, the negative effects of which all Hungarians can still experience on their own skin. We're talking about the last 25 years. That's why our country keeps us here, because we had to live in a system like this, in the system that XX had to live in. Party of the century, you have formed with the MSZP. And what have we seen in the last five years? A similar process is taking place with you, they continue to do so, and one of the best examples of this is the measures that you have been constantly bringing to this House in the field of gambling in recent years. The event began with the fact that the market for slot machines was shut down by the Fidesz government with a single pen stroke almost overnight, bringing countless Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to the brink of bankruptcy. The explanatory statement was that they were trying to protect the population from the harmful passion in the crackling, and that was where the national security risk came from. But no one talks about what the national security risk was. The fact that the two strong men of Fidesz had a fight over the Concon and could not agree was a national security risk, which is why the market had to be eliminated, which is why we had to destroy the Hungarian companies that were in this market at the time. Then it was the second stage of the event that the Fidesz administration also played a concession on the operation of casinos into the hands of a circle that was kind to those who should not be named, even though there are only two people in this country who can do this. Fidesz and the government did so in such a way that slot machines, which my fellow Member has already spoken about, do not need to be connected directly to the online system of the NAV - even though this is now mandatory for the smallest retail grocery store, it is mandatory for them not to name Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima, making the actual income uncontrollable, allowing a wide range of abuse; not to be named Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima. And now, our friends have turned their eye on sports betting, for whom the Fidesz government wants to use state resources to play the business with great profits. The trend is bad, the process weakens the state further, unlike what you say; it reduces revenues, unlike what you say; drastic restrictions do not reduce, but strengthen the black economy, unlike what you say; and the exclusion of Hungarian competition only strengthens international online gaming operators with Gábor Sima and Andy Vajna - yeah, we do not say their names - together, because they easily exclude themselves from domestic restrictions. It has also been said that from now on we will be able to take action against foreign online sites. Gentlemen, you're forgetting that you've already made a law about this. There's already a law, you have to act against it. The gig, you know what it means? For the NAV to write daily that these and these pages should be blocked, they just can't block normally. The item on the agenda - I do not wish to refer to it as a bill, which is why I say it is an item on the agenda - is, in my view, exhausting the concept of state banditism. The proposed text aims to raise immorality to a legal level; what we read in the text goes far beyond simple debauchery or a criminal organization, which is already a state-wide criminal organization, as usual by Fidesz. Why am I using these strong terms? Let's take it one step at a time. Currently, the Gambling Company. the only operator eligible for the organisation of sports betting in the context of distance gambling. This is therefore currently a monopoly, which is by making the Gambling Company. It is 100% state-owned and constitutes a state monopoly. This monopoly represents a well-defined, well-planned income for the State. Currently, the organisation of online casino games and card games can only be organised by a player who is the holder of a concession for running a casino. In practice, this is also a monopoly, which is much less transparent and traceable than the one hundred percent state-owned Gambling Company. its operation, however, it also results in some budgetary revenue through the concession fee. By definition in the text - 29/C. § - Sports betting is considered a long-distance gamble if it is organised by means of a communication system. According to the following definition, the concept of online casino games includes casino games and all distance gambling, i.e. sports betting, which can only be organised by a concession company entitled to organise casino games. On the other hand, they are entitled to organise remote gambling around the new 3. In paragraph 1a, the text mentions two players, Szerencségy Zrt. and the holder of the casino concession. This is an obvious contradiction, by the way, so they couldn't even do this law normally from a codification point of view. Because of the Gambling Company. it does not have a concession for the operation of a casino, so although Article 3 does not provide for a concession for the operation of a casino. § 1a would qualify for the organisation of remote gambling, but paragraph 29/L. Not according to § (1) anymore. The explanatory statement does not state in any way the reason for these changes; it merely qualifies them as clarification proposals. [[13.30]] The company with the current casino operating concession - we do not have to introduce the parties, we do not say their names, Andy Vajna and Gábor Szima - as a result of the amendment, sports betting will also be included without having to change their current concession contract. Or perhaps they should increase the concession fee provided for in the contract. What does that mean? It's free. This is an open robbery, ladies and gentlemen. Those who support and vote in favour of this amendment will themselves become co-actors of this outrage. Recently, Minister János Lázár also said at a narrow professional forum that a mass of legislation we live in was not created by accident. Through this, interest groups enforce their own views, said János Lázár, and the incomprehensible sentence structures and incomprehensible wording of the legislation lie, among other things, in intent. I can deeply agree with this description of the situation, the diagnosis is accurate and correct, and this is what we can now see in this draft law, word for word. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary regularly raises its voice against such state-wide industrial abuse. Let the words of John Lazarus serve as a warning example for all my fellow Members when he votes 'yes' or 'no' on the proposal before us. This proposal is precisely one that hides the only substantial change behind the incomprehensible wording in incomprehensible sentence structures, namely to re-enact the revenue of sports betting to a single interest group whose name is not mentioned. It is indeed, you can say state banditism. After all, we eliminate the competition, we try to block foreign sites and everything else, instead of trying to figure it out, we ignore the public interest clearly, and we play the market for free for our buddies. That's what this bill is about. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has therefore tabled two amendments to this law, and I would ask you then to show that it is not, but it is not intended to circumvent the entire market for these two people. In one of them, we determine that online casino games can only be organised by Szerencségy Zrt. and by a concession company entitled to organise the online casino game. What does that mean? It means that someone should organize an online casino game in Hungary if they conclude a concession contract with Szerencségy Zrt. We are not thinking about existing casino concession contracts, but rather about opening this opportunity to anyone else - because online casino games include sports betting used by means of a communication tool, which we have taken out from here, because we do not think it is good here, and we believe that the right to organise online casino games should remain with Szerencségy Zrt. - and that should be used only by a separate concession contract. I think it's open and transparent. Our other amendment is that only 100% state-owned Szerencség Zrt. and majority state-owned companies should be eligible for the organisation of remote gambling. What's the point? The point is that within the scope of remote gambling, you wish to allow sports betting exclusively to the holder of the concession right to operate the casino. In our view, the reduction is entirely unjustified, and the linking of the two activities cannot be supported professionally. The current text of the proposal is discriminatory and therefore, in our view, it violates even the Fundamental Law. The elimination of the current state monopoly on remote gambling management is not justified, but the inflow of investor capital should not be excluded. However, the participation of private investors is possible only under strict State control and control, if it is properly ensured, in such undertakings the majority of public ownership is enshrined in law. So what does that mean? Let us not give the sports bet to Gábor Sima and Andy Vajna, which cannot be named for free, but let it remain a state monopoly, as this also results in huge revenues for the Hungarian State. And if it's online, because what it's all about, it's going to be possible to display sports betting online, so if you want to run sports betting online, you can only operate it with a company in which Szerencségy Zrt., the state is majority-owned. Because with this, we can guarantee both control and purity, transparency and all the other noble goals that you have set here. So I would like to ask you to support the bill of the Jobbik Hungary Movement in the interests of those noble goals, taking into account those listed here. This is to prove that they do not want to circumvent this market for people who cannot be named, but they do work to ensure that the Hungarian state and through it the Hungarian people have the best possible job in this country, to earn as much revenue as possible and to create clearer and more transparent conditions even in the gambling market. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-23-90	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here.
u2015-06-23-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if they think people are stupid or if they just want to think they're stupid. It's just shocking. Nonsense is what they are allowed to do in connection with the submission of government actors or some Members of Parliament of such a law. Nonsense, because some people have everything and others have nothing. And even less than that, if possible. So, this story is about something like this that you've just presented to us. Remote gambling, in fact, is taken out of online casino games, and where would it go, exclusively for casino gaming companies and organizations with the right to organise casino games. Well, we know very well, there's not much of this country. It's not much, but at least it's close to you. At least it's not far from you. Are you talking about budget revenue? Are you talking about a tax increase? Isn't this story about something else? Haven't you thought about it? Or have you not experienced this? While 4.5 million people in this country are living their lives, their daily lives, while more and more people are struggling, the question is actually for the people living in the countryside and the people living in the sacks, how they live their lives overnight, while you and your friends are living everything. You don't have the blush on your face? What they did under land leases in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county! Commissioner Tallai could tell you more about this matter than I could, because he probably knows the processes more intimately. Or in the case of the Miskolc trade concessions, where two, or two, Fidesz representatives took 20 for eighty-some concessions, and then, in one of his shame, he returned maybe eight or twelve of them. So, don't you feel that this story is embarrassing? Don't you feel that this isn't about what you're trying to talk about? Budgetary revenue surplus, tax surplus? Do you not feel that, and as my fellow Members have said, individually, I do not need to specify how and where these resources are going? Or do they really think everyone's stupid? Do they want us to look like one? 'Cause that's all there is to it. [[13.40]] My fellow Member, Pigeon, describes the countryman as, in a way, the countryman's inability to decide if there's a toy machine in a small tavern, let's say, that he can decide whether to go in there and throw it in or not to do so. No, the countryman is no different than, say, Budapest, he can think. He's just living his life under more difficult circumstances. And I dare even stop you from acting more carefully, if necessary. Oh, there are people with gambling problems? Well, there are, in the countryside, in Budapest. To stop the gambling judges from talking about what Ildikó Bangóné Borbély talked about, Zsolt Egyed and other fellow Members, that they had emptied the pubs from the slot machines you called a one-armed robber, and that they had given the empire into the hands of some people, they could not. Don't think that people, if they want to, aren't resourceful. Yes, you can. That's not what this is about. You don't want to protect anyone, or I can tell you that you don't want to protect anyone, no; you help certain people, certain circles, to profit. Are you doing all this selfishly? Or are they acting in a selfish way for some other reason? Sooner or later, time will prove why. Do you think that's normal? Do you think that's how this is supposed to work? And while they're fooling people - a trade-concession - to create the protection of young people from smoking? We don't have to go deeper. We all know the consequences. We know what started on the black market. We know what kind of grievances, crimes have been suffered by people, even, unfortunately, there has been a fatal victim of the story, all that you have come up with in this regard. And for decades, they've taken away their daily livelihoods from people who operate tramps, even disabled ones. How does this thing work? How is this put together in your head? They don't feel that it's not fair. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No.]] Isn't that too fair? I think it's unfair. I think it's incorrect. And apparently, not only in terms of transforms, not only in terms of land, but also in relation to all other sources, they draw processes that are not in the interest of humans, something quite different. It would be nice to put the cards out once: what is this about, gentlemen? What's this about? To whom and what profit is this about? For once, it would be nice to be clear about these things. And perhaps to draw conclusions. And perhaps to establish the conclusions as well. It would be good, because as long as this goes on, as long as everyone you're talking about here in words, they're just going to suffer for everything you're doing for them and put in quotes. I think it's against them. You know, when there is a lack of integrated control systems - Ildikó Bangóné Borbély talked about this, I do not repeat - in the multitude of the operation of slot machines, on the other hand, ladies, if they go into the beauty shop or the hairdresser or go into the corner shop, then there, there, there, there, there, there, is a strong source of funds through close counting cash registers. I don't have a problem with that, but I do have a problem with the fact that here, within the framework of this empire, the integrated control systems are being evacuated, they're not, they don't have to be. How is that, gentlemen? How does this work? What's this? What is this you're building? Aren't you afraid it's drawing the ground for the free robbery? Don't you think it's definitely not okay? Or is there a reason they're doing this? I am very confident that there is no such thing, and I dare not assume it, because it is the end, at least the beginning of the end. It would be good for them to think about it. It would be good for them to consider it. And it would be good if, by doing so, if you think about it, if you consider it, you would act in such a way that this whole indication would be withdrawn. Yes, I consider the nodding of my fellow Member Bánki Erik to be this way, that, yes, you will also think about it. Because everything they do is not for the benefit of Hungary, it is not for the benefit of the vast majority of people living in Hungary. This is for the benefit of some people, it is in the interest of certain groups, but it is not the majority of Hungarian people. This Parliament is and is designed and expected of it, and through it we are all, individually and collectively, to serve the interests of the Hungarian people; to adopt laws that serve their lives, their life development, their everyday development in a positive direction. Not some, not small groups, not your buddies, not your pretentious, no. You know, two or three years ago, there was a man - if there are already unspeakable names on the surface, as my fellow Member Szilágyi said - who, as a gas mechanic, took a dividend of HUF 800 million. 800 million forints! Well, that's okay. Only in that year was HUF 157 million wage-like payment matched to the employment of 225 people. Do you understand the numbers? Do you understand what I'm saying? $800 million dividend to someone who employs 225 people that year with a salary of HUF 157 million? What if it's not wild capitalism? What's this? [[Dr. István Józsa: Robbery.]] If it's not a world... some might call it robbery with a calm spirit, yes. What is it if it is not a world that is nothing to some and nothing to others? You think that's okay? You think that's okay? You've done it with the land, you've done it with the trucks, you've done it by installing European resources for all kinds of investments - how does this world work, gentlemen? And then you're gonna bring this hideous thing here? I can't call him anything else. Will it be brought here when it is estimated that only in those five casinos it is about HUF 15 billion in revenue that is generated? Will the state receive tax revenue of 6 to 6.2 billion forints and bring this next step here? Is that normal? Is that normal? And in the meantime, do you think about what happens to micro and small businesses operating in Hungary? You know, what they talk about so much, the SME sector, who disappears by tens of thousands every year, there are months when 10,000 businesses in the SME sector, including organisations operating catering units, where the one-armed giants you think are guilty of have been released, banned from use, because the rural people, some of them believe, are not fit to decide and put within the framework of casinos. Where there's over 800? That's okay. Where the clearance of the check is not granted? That's okay. Where the authorities wouldn't dare go? Because when it comes to going out, they can be subject to retaliation? Isn't that a problem? What is this story about? Is the man important to you? Is micro, small business important to you? It's not important. You can see that it's only important at the level of speech, that they only talk about it at the level of words. [[13.50]] Only the interest groups are important, only the pereputty and the buddies to whom you can give - and God don't give you - are there those who think you can get it? Is that okay? Shouldn't we once again consider that people who live their lives in the majority in Hungary and under modest circumstances should be able to lend a helping hand through their laws? Shouldn't it be considered that what Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said about the introduction of a tax exemption for the concession fee, should they have done so much more, or, even for poultry products, would the VAT rate be reduced from the 27 percent world record to 5 percent, or would it have been the reduction of the VAT on basic foods? Not the exemption from the concession fees, no! Not the one that gives to some, but the one that gives to all! Isn't that what they're supposed to be doing? So I would like to ask you, on the one hand, to withdraw everything that has been put here, and, on the other hand, to do things that are in the interest of the people in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-23-92	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have a two-minute circle, first Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, MSZP. Here.
u2015-06-23-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would now commend the politicians of the ruling party, they did precise work, but there is always a slight error in their calculation: in the words of Erik Bánki, they cleaned up the market before Gábor Sima and Andy Vajna - but they did not count on the world of the Internet. Now, you can see that they've spat their way out here, but we're very quick to submit another law to solve this. We're gonna clean this whole thing up. Don't let anyone else get to it. Just, you know, my fellow Member, when I look at you, there's a perfectly normal person in front of me. How can you look in the mirror after such a law, tell me, when we read in the newspaper every day that Andy Vajna's wife parades around in two million-dollar clothes, with the money our people pay in the casino? People from Hungary, from our tax-paying people's forints in two million-dollar clothes! You know, a man living on a minimum salary doesn't see that much money all year long, put together! And we have to face it every day, that what you guys just give Andy Vajna, as a gift, is sweated out by other people's fat, you know? And I just can't imagine how they dare to bring such laws into the walls of this House! [[Lajos Korózs: Once they pay a great price for this!]] Yes, I told you in my lead speakers that when the serious consequences of this law are to be corrected by another government, you will no longer be sitting here, but we hope that this will come very soon. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-23-94	The next two-minute speech is by Congressman László Varju, independent.
u2015-06-23-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, What is happening here in relation to the debate of this law, I think that we have two possible directions: one is that we are having a legal debate on a matter that has been tabled; on the other side, we are asking how, in a moral and moral context, it can be realized that such a law is to be submitted within the framework of the rule of law in Hungary. I think we need to look at it through these glasses, and we need to take it completely seriously: what could have happened is essentially happening within the Mob State framework. There are distributed areas, the government calls them concessions, where certain people have bought their own territory, and by drawing on it, they maintain the radiance and appearance of politics. This is something to be protested against; even the Fidesz Members do this, because 90 percent of them are not in the Chamber today, and they do not want to deal with this debate. Although my fellow Members have mentioned several memorable sentences from the Vice-President of the Economic Commission, Mr Bánki, which is even about clearing the market, I will then find a third or find a third: it is about the controlled use of money that is happening. At the same time as you are creating such areas, you also want to ensure that politics can manage it unilaterally and pay one-sided attention to the fact that no money, no resources can be made available to anyone who otherwise does not belong to your moonyard. In this form and in this sense, this law cannot be supported at all. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] They should be ashamed of themselves for that. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-23-96	Congressman János Pócs is the next two-minute speaker, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-97	Thank you for the floor. Congressman Gur went out, even though I wanted to report my respect and fuss... [[In the place of Nándor Gúr's notary, he sits on the pulpit. Intercoms from the opposition: Here it is! It's on the pulpit!]] I respectfully welcome you. I would like to congratulate you on this 15 minutes, and I think the Member has suffered a great deal. If my grandfather heard it, he'd say it's like party secretaries: it's not about what he says, it's about how long he says it. Congressman! There are so many contradictions if you listen to yourself. You're talking about the misery of five million people, and you don't realize that as long as they're trying to draw attention to five casinos, there were five pubs in the smallest settlement that destroyed families? Look into the eyes of the mothers who took the minimum wage and the number of days into the pub in a small settlement and left it in the one-armed one-armed one, which you are so sorry to see removed from the small settlement! There were five such pubs in one settlement, five such pubs! I'm sorry. You talk about land law, though I don't know how you come here. Do you feel sorry for István Lajtos, his own friend, who had a land-based support of one million forints a day? [[Erik Bánki and András Tállai: Whoo!]] Fellow Members! Look into people's eyes. I'm sorry. But right now, this Parliament is like being in space, and they have nothing to do with everyday reality, with the countryside. Congressman Lords! You can talk about who's good or who's not, but one thing's for sure: walk down the street, hardly see a smoker. Traffic owners lose because I'm sure a lot of people lose, but we won when we go down the street and we barely see a smoker; and when there are no money-stealing machines in the small settlement that have taken people's wages and salaries. How many families are divorced? The loan shark has ceased since this activity ceased in small settlements because it was financed from usury - and you are talking about, for example, that these two measures do not protect the interests of the people? Congressman Gur, for one sentence only. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Red, red, red, Minister asked whether the non-ferrous metal business at the time...
u2015-06-23-98	Please, just stop.
u2015-06-23-99	...how many families have you destroyed? You should've paid attention anyway. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-23-100	Congressman György Szilágyi in two minutes, Jobbik!
u2015-06-23-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Interesting things have been learned: it has ceased in the usury area, you wanted to shut down the slot machines. They didn't want to shut down the slot machines, they wanted to reshape the system, but as I said, there could have been only one actor who created the server background, and your two strong Fidesz guys got into a fight, and that's why they shut down the whole market. Well, don't say that. Are you saying it was real? You know what's real? The reality is, someone who makes a lot of money out of this, his wife writes out on Facebook that he's a loser who can't buy his girlfriend, say, diamond jewelry by Valentine's Day. [[Interjection: Shame!]] This is reality and this is shame! So what's the next step? The next step is to give them the online casino for free, give them the sports bet - in the next step, we give them the lottery? Well, why not? Well, then we can give you that. Next time you bring him in, and we're gonna give these people the lottery? [[Dr. András Schiffer: Sure!]] Don't forget one thing. This isn't a public procurement procedure where this guy's gonna win, and then if I accidentally fight with him, he's not gonna win! [[Dr. András Schiffer: Long live Andy Vajna!]] This is not a public procurement procedure. They're making laws here where this dude will still be in a monopolistic position, and he'll be privileged even if he happens to be fighting with you. I don't know if it's ever happened before. [[Dr. András Schiffer: I've had it!]] There was an example, I think, that could be very well brought here when a certain friend stood up and said nasty things to you. [[Dr. András Schiffer: The law has been reversed!]] And the one who's leading you, and that's when you weren't a friend. What if someday these friends are gonna stand up and say nasty things? Then it's not a public procurement procedure anymore, it's more serious and more important than that! You are now trying to exclude 100% of the state-owned company, so you are trying to exclude the State itself from this market. That's what this is about right now, so think about it. I therefore ask you to consider whether you will accept our amendments, which will guarantee that the State will continue to be part of this market and that this state company will even supervise it. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and continue to control this market. [[14.00]]
u2015-06-23-102	Dear Parliament, We will now return to the speeches of the Members who have asked for the normal word. First, Congressman István Józsa, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You're trying to draw an ideology for free robbery because it's really about whether it's a state monopoly or a competitive sector because of its nature. [[János Pócs: Or Paks.]] You're gonna destroy me nicely, and then you're gonna make a profit, because the budget is gonna be damaged, less revenue coming into the budget, for example, from the casino area that you're about to legislate on, and you're gonna lose tens of billions of dollars in the budget, but you're gonna change the narrowed-down market by law to make it good for your own pals. This is an example of the reorganization of the Trafiks. Indeed, you are right, Congressman, by saying that I think you have an incorrect attitude and I would protect you from it, but if you think that János Sánta had written that traffic law on his computer, it was clear in Brussels that young János Sánta had written in the root file - the root knows what it is - that young János Sánta did. János Sánta's profits somehow went up from 216 million to 686, so more than tripled, although the legal tobacco trade did decrease. So, you've taken over a market, rearranged what you say you're building a national bourgeoisie, so you build a national bourgeoisie, you cut a territory, you destroy it, and then the character you've designated can show up after it. The fact that the casino law, where tens of billions are actually released without any control and there is a very serious loss in the budget, and then such a law is now being passed, is a defined case of theft by law. So maybe this will be taught at some point in the history of law, that this is how the parliamentary majority can be used to steal by law and from then on to do the robbery of the budget legally. What is the practice of having an online cash register for the smallest spicy? Every movement is checked by the NAV, quite rightly so that the general sales tax is collected for each purchase item. Another question is that the 27 percent turnover tax is unrealisticly high. But gambling is already exempt from sales tax, in an area where big money is moving, much can be stolen, there is no online control. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] I can't listen to you, Congressman Schiffer, and then at the end, tell me in my ear. By the way, I find it rather sad that they are laughing at something that I cannot control, because I am talking about, and when I am talking about the budget being damaged, I would like to ask for a more serious attitude or a two-minute push and apologize to the speaking Member. [[Tibor Bana: He's never done this before!]] So I find it very reprehensible, as MSZP congressman, that you are now legitimizing free robbery. They're assigning players who didn't compete. They say we need reliable actors. They may be for you, but as has been said here before, if you get into this for sure, the finished bath, warm malice - I said almost harsher - from then on, what is the guarantee that while control systems are somehow ignored by this bill, that they will actually work as you imagine later. Or if we take a little detour to the budget's lost revenue. You have adopted a budget in which you provide pennies to nurses, you provide pennies to health care, so you're abandoning everyone who has been promised redemption in the 2010 campaign to save health care, you're saving it, you're saving it. So ask the nurses or ask the doctors how much you saved them. Or ask the social worker who reads it in the Blikk because it's the biggest magazine in the world that Tímea Vajna is hanging around in million-dollar clothes. I daresay that you will ensure that theft is done, and this theft is also happening from the budget, which will result in people doing such rags undeservingly. The reason I'm saying this is undeserving, is because, let's say, from a Hungarian inventor who you don't support as much as you do casino players, you couldn't be sorry for the money. Who is his creativity, his work, his spiritual work, or... [[Dr. András Schiffer: Creativity is what it is.]] Creativity is, yes, there is creativity in the legislative part, while the budget is being taken out. So you're not creating value, you're not trying to promote value creation with regulators, but what could, by the way, strengthen the budget, move you from there completely to two designated players. [[János Pócs intervenes.]] Budgetary revenue. So I am asking you very much that Congressman Bánki may feel very confident, but there is a legal order in Europe, you know it, an ex-member of the Union - it is true that he is supposed to be in exile, but who knows? [[Dr. András Schiffer's name.]] In any case, he had the opportunity to know that there was a European legal order. So it's not even possible to transfer everything in a brazen way with legislation. I think there's gonna be a moment of truth. The president of the LMP nods that they're going to be partners in this. [[Dr. András Schiffer, Erik Bánki.]] that once this gambling market, which you have rearranged, is a competent man, the people are calling you to account, and then they will not grin like that in the debate of this proposal, when, I stress, ten billion people are being stolen from the budget, the Hungarian people. It's unacceptable! Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. András Schiffer, László Varju applauds.]]
u2015-06-23-104	Thank you very much. Alderman Zsolt, Jobbik!
u2015-06-23-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to respond to the words of Congressman Pócs. Since he said here in his previous speech that in the countryside, when you had liquidated the slot machines from the pubs, from the liquor stores, the people breathed and followed the machines carried away in the midst of cheering. I would also say to Congressman Pócs and, by the way, to Congressman Bánki that if someone else says their opinion and you suggest that you look into the eyes of those whose husband threw the money into the toy machine, if any, and I say that you look into the eyes of those who may have run a liquor store for generations, and you have destroyed them with a feather stroke, thus making their daily normal livelihood impossible, making their children's education impossible, and making their whole lives impossible in a given settlement. I say, and many of my fellow Members have said this before me, that in order to give one or two people unlimited access to this country, I stress once again, unlimited rags and financial opportunities, I think it is a sin to destroy an entire industry. Once again, I would like to say what I said in my speaker's speech. If you want to be fair about issuing a concession to operate the online casino system, then put in an open tender for this, for anyone who meets the criteria professionally and, where appropriate, from a national security point of view. But that is unacceptable, and you very much like to refer to European Union law, European Union norms, then I ask where this can happen again in the European Union, that a Parliament is creating a law that is virtually equivalent to two people from the whole country. [[14.10]] The other thing, however, that I did not get an answer to here in the previous speeches by my fellow members of the Party for Government, and my Fidesz fellow Member, who gave the speaker's speech, here the concession holder will have a duty to block the inappropriate IP addresses under the law. I have not received an answer until now - and I suspect we will not, by the way - to what interest the operator has in blocking these IP addresses, because we know very well, my fellow Member said because that is what the law says. Ladies and gentlemen, The KRESZ also states that a car must be stopped before a zebra, and when they stand up in front of a zebra, they see how many cars stop; so each law is worth as much as they respect it. After all, allow me to be a little skeptical, but after having an online cash register in the last small grocery store in the corner, just by chance there is no control in casinos, let me be sceptical, even to a small extent, in compliance with this legitimacy, because I do not see the guarantee, and you have not given me an answer from a technical point of view about the interest of the operator in blocking these IP addresses. I trust, if you do not, then I think that Mr Tállai, State Secretary, will give you the right answer at the end of the debate. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-23-106	Thank you very much. There are two-minute speeches coming up. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP!
u2015-06-23-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Pócs, I hope you will look back on everything you have said and realize how many things you have said that are really not about people. Look, if you're a little worried about people, here's what I'd like to say. The concession fee for casinos should be abolished, and instead, for people, they should reduce the VAT on basic foods, and, as I mentioned earlier, let's say, in addition to pork, they should also reduce the VAT on poultry products to 5%! As I said, there is a lack of integrated control at the moment in the case of slot machines, while there are online cash registers at the arctic grocery store, the hairdresser, God knows, everywhere else in the Hungarian small businesses, you know, in SMEs. Earth, traffic, casinos, gas; I could go on, but it's still a lot of gas. What they've done is already bad enough. As I said, I can't put it any other way, for my friends and pereputty everything, for example 800 million dividends in a given year, in the same year, for 225 people in the same company, a salary of HUF 157 million, and then add, for people, not for friends, not for pereputty, no. So, for your buddies and your pereputty, everything, and for the people, nothing. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Oh, my God!]] This is your creed - oh, my God or without my God - this is your creed, this should be changed, my fellow Member, and I wish you good luck with that. For the first time, withdraw this, which you have just submitted. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-06-23-108	Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP!
u2015-06-23-109	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A week and a half ago, when we discussed the law on the transformation of the financial intermediary system here in Parliament, and when the opposition did not vote, Mr Rogán Group leader immediately asked for a word here, and almost immediately there he said that the opposition had been bought by the brokers. I was very, very surprised and shocked at this at the time, because there wasn't much of a conflict of interest between the brokers and the opposition, but you immediately told me. However, on the basis of today's draft law, which Congressman Bánki has tabled, I think that, on this basis, I can safely say that Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima have bought you, because who will benefit from this bill? Them. We know that the traditional casino generated 3 billion forints a year for them, they collected huge amounts of money, and you give them additional discounts, they enrich these two people even further. Today we discussed the 2016 budget, and you communicate everything about how good it will be for people, giving two children a HUF 2500 tax reduction per person per family, but the fact that children and children have not been raised since 2008 is forgotten. But we can look at all the items, that's right. You continue to enrich only the few rich and the rich in Hungary. It is not known how you will benefit from this then. People, the poor workers who live below the minimum living standards, they don't care about them, they talk about a few billion, and here, in the hands of one or two people, many billions are concentrated. I don't know what else would have happened. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So that you can change your behavior and not follow this practice.
u2015-06-23-110	Congressman László Varju, independent!
u2015-06-23-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We can be quite sure that there was a great deal of filth in the Hungarian Parliament at the time when this draft law was submitted and, most likely, it will be adopted. And you have the right to assume, my fellow Member, that in the event of such a direct relationship, you have been bought, and that if we go beyond that, it is worth turning on another character, I think, because Árpád Habony's contribution to this should not be omitted, who is working as an active liaison officer, to ensure that everything we are talking about here works well and oiled and oiled. But I look at the involvement of everyone in the Economic Committee with very, very doubts, because, in itself, when the Economic Committee agreed and assumed responsibility for the sale of visas and provided a multibillion HUF opportunity for participating organisations, a direct sale of Hungarian interests took place, there the Chairman of the Economic Committee and the Head of the Economic Committee are involved in this. The same thing is happening here, my dear Member. I'm so sorry that you're putting your name on this, and you can't hide it by referring to some kind of sports grant. I think that against this law, all serious intellectuals, leaders must speak out, because this is an example of how this Mob State works. It is therefore entirely justified that the initiative of the Democratic Coalition, at the time when this happens, should indeed be supported by the European Public Prosecutor's Office and its opposition and protest against the state mafia. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-23-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Erik Bánki: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2015-06-23-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been a representative of Parliament for more than 17 years, I have had many debates, but this was one of the few debates when no opposition speaker was interested in what the bill was about. It is clear that the opposition's job is to attack a proposal and try to list as many arguments as possible against the adoption of a particular bill. But it is that against a bill aimed at making it on the Hungarian market, where today the Gambling Company. With the exception of no players, only and only foreign companies organise online casino games or sports betting, and this bill aims to make these foreign companies from here, from this market, who do not pay a penny tax, do not employ any Hungarian employees, push them out, and instead give Hungarian businesses space, and generate revenue for the Hungarian budget, to make all kinds of insane accusations, because, I tell you the truth, after 17 years, even I was surprised. I will try to respond one by one to the points raised in the debate, although I say they were not, in principle, in a thank-you relationship with the bill itself. [[14.20]] My fellow Member, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, has complained that there is no control over game organizers. Well, it's barely against the bill. That's been mentioned by a number of people. He specifically argued that the cash register of a grocery store should also be connected to the IRS as an online cash register. Well, I would like to send a message to my honourable fellow Member, who, let us say, did not wait for the end of the debate, but that is not surprising to a large part of the opposition's representatives, that the bill here is specifically about the need to provide online access to the server to the National Tax Office. So not to bypass this thing, but to explicitly guarantee this is the current bill, as opposed to the current practice, where the NAV does not have any access to the servers of companies organizing gambling on the Hungarian market. So you don't have a thank-you question about reality either. The other is whether we have curbed gambling while there are queues in front of the casinos in Budapest. Well, my honourable fellow Member, there are probably queues in front of the casinos in Budapest because there were a lot of games lost in Budapest, the arcades that anyone could have gone to and spent the family's money there. Now I am glad that there are queues, because that means that fewer and fewer people will be in line, and fewer and fewer people will have the opportunity to spend time and waste resources for the maintenance of the family. The support for children's meals was challenged by Mrs. Congresswoman. It has been said earlier that the government will support the child food from this. All my fellow Member should have done was look at the 2015 budget and see that the support for children's meals increased by HUF 20 billion compared to 2014. So, in accordance with the good custom of the government, he kept what he had promised, as opposed to the representatives of the MSZP, who, during the eight years of their government, used the old commie dictionary, everything they promised, they did the exact opposite. And he asked me how I could look myself in the mirror. My honourable fellow Member, just as I have done before. So with complete peace of mind, and even with the absence of my fellow Member, I confirm that I can even look my four children in the eye with the same sincerity and love that I had before. On my part, this bill has nothing to do with the baseless and crappy accusations brought up in the debate by my fellow opposition Members. My fellow Member, Zsolt Egyed, who has also left the Chamber, spoke practically perfectly as a toy machine lobbyist. What my fellow Member said was nothing more than a revision of the old system, as my fellow Member Pócs said, when the robbing of poor people could be carried out freely by those arcades or arcade players who were not morally disturbed by the fact that it was the last pennies of the family, and even the loan-sharks that were taken in the slot machines, and, as my fellow Member said, there is a huge change compared to the time when these rural arcades were still operating and today they are not working. It's not because the pubs would've shut me down in the process. This may be true around the Member's residence, but it was not typical in Baranya. However, it is absolutely typical that the family money was not usually wasted by the heads of the family, and the children still have to thank God, although there is obviously limited amount of money to give and feed them at least. So, I don't understand that attitude at all. And Congressman here has spoken of tens of thousands of jobs, but he has forgotten the hundreds of thousands of families who have been destroyed by these arcades. I think it is no question that this debate has been decided in the absolutely right direction, and I am proud to say that I have been among those who voted in favour of the bill that has abolished these arcades throughout the country. The question of sports betting was also raised by Congressman Szilágyi and Zsolt Egyed; here, too, they used all kinds of selected words, mafia, free robbery, and I don't know what. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member to the law, the basic law, which will stand up despite the amendment. Article 3 of this Gambling Act. Paragraph 1a (a) clearly states, and I will also read to my fellow Members for the sake of accuracy, i.e. paragraph 3. Paragraph 1a (a) - this is not affected by the current bill - says: "The organisation of distance gambling in case of a sports betting type - I say to Mr Szilágyi - only the 100 percent of the Szerencségy Zrt. owned by the Hungarian State. You can do it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So, my fellow Member, it is not that we would like to eliminate the state monopoly that is in the field of sports betting today, or whoever would like to allow the organisation of sports betting to others other than the state company. So he is submitting an unnecessary amendment in this matter, since the law also provides for it today, and we have not touched it. Also, paragraph 1a (b), which is about the organisation of the casino game and the game type of card game, well, in the case of online casinos, they will be amended by the bill if Parliament accepts it. In my colleague Erzsébet Schmuck's speech, I remembered the saying of a Greek philosopher: not the one who is buried, but the one who is not mentioned will die. So, you mentioned the previous bill I submitted to Parliament. All the legislative proposals were designed to create clearer, more transparent relations and increase public tax revenues. I've never given my name to any other bill myself, and I don't plan on doing it anymore. Impact studies have been cancelled. How much extra budget revenue do we expect? - asked Congresswoman. Indeed, we did not have time to carry out impact studies, but we did not need to, because the calculation is very simple: at present, whatever happens thanks to the new legislation, it can only be more, because the revenues so far for these types of gaming organization were zero, i.e. zero forints. According to the calculations of the Ministry of National Economy, this could amount to HUF 8 billion in additional revenue, but I say that if we could generate a single HUF of additional revenue and create jobs, it was worth the effort and it was worth sitting through this parliamentary debate. And who has bought, my honourable fellow Member, I cannot speak on behalf of others, but I can honestly look you in the eye: no one has bought me. Neither are the gentlemen you speak of, nor anyone else, so I have no interest in who or what market you will be able to acquire here. Only the State will be able to determine this later, as has been the case, since the issue of the concession falls within the competence of the Minister of National Economy, who will decide, after obvious due consideration, how many players in this market will be given the opportunity under what circumstances. I would not begin to comment on Mr Nándor Gúr's monologue, because I felt like a children's playground at the time; it was a very effective, very nice speech. I'll tell you honestly, Congressman, it will be worth looking back at the speeches of the last KIS Congress. If you look at Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech, you will surely find it on the Index, he will listen to Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech at the last KISZ Congress, it was exactly the same as yours: he spoke for a long time, but not necessarily in relation to the subject. And the more you listen to it, the more you realize it's really not what you said, the more you want to talk. I would like to highlight one thing, however, from what you have said, and this is the tax exemption for concession fees. You must have forgotten, my honourable fellow Member, that, at the time of your government, the concession was VAT-free in 2004. You have it exactly VAT-free, so with VAT-free today, it's practically the same situation as it was in 2004 when you were in government. I would not rate the contribution of my fellow Member István Józsa, and he also tried to colour his comments with all kinds of inappropriate indications. I would like to highlight two of them: free robbery and insolence. To my fellow Member, if he were still here in the Chamber, I would just say that he should consider, as a Member of Parliament, concluding a contract of HUF 6 billion with a 100% state-owned company, which category he will exhaust. I think both. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in summary, I think that if we had really talked about the bill and its spirit, we would have been able to have a completely different debate. I continue to claim that this legislation will result in more orderly relations on the Hungarian market, that the State will have substantial tax revenue from these activities, and that the area of sports betting will, of course, remain as a state monopoly as it has been before. I would ask my fellow Members to consider amending their previous opinions and from the factions who support the bill, I would ask them to support this in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2015-06-23-114	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the proposal for a decision on the adoption by the State Audit Office, submitted to Parliament on the professional activities of the State Audit Office and the operation of the institution for the year 2014 will follow. The report is B/4745. and the proposal for a decision is H/5035. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Warvasovszky Tihamér, Vice-President of the State Audit Office, author of the report. Mr Vice President wishes to state his position on the pulpit. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Act on the State Audit Office states that the State Audit Office shall provide the National Assembly with annual information on the organization's audit activities, its operations, its management and its actions on the basis of audit findings. The Act also states that the State Audit Office helps the Parliament, its committees, the work of the audited organisations, with its findings, suggestions and advice based on its audit experience, to facilitate the functioning of the well-managed state. The last 4 years have confirmed the need for a new Court of Auditors law in order to enable the State Audit Office, as a constitutional institution, to start real changes in the way public finances are organised and maintained. The new legal environment, which entered into force in 2011, has also created a new situation, with which the State Audit Office has been able to live maximum in recent years. This is particularly true for last year. Honourable Members, The audits of the State Audit Office are well designed to serve the interests of the country and society. The situation is similar in the case of our annual accounts, as we do not prepare it for ourselves, but for users, Members of Parliament and all citizens. Accordingly, on the basis of user needs, we develop and build our report year after year, which we also added recommendations to the Parliament this year. This is closely linked to the approach that has been developed in recent years, i.e. by seeking to carry out holistic approaches to draw comprehensive conclusions and systemic recommendations for each system. The recommendations to Members aim to present the aspects and findings in the area of control. In the following, I would like to make a list of our recommendations on each control area, including their justification. Last year, too, we paid particular attention to the control of the municipal subsystem. In 2014, we published a total of 193 reports from the Court of Auditors on municipal issues, and we were present at 408 sites. In our reports, we made a proposal based on a finding of 2376 measures. We have also closed our follow-up on the basis of our first independent audit programme, which gave us the opportunity to feedback, i.e. a comprehensive picture of the availability of our audits in terms of the finances of 62 cities. A few years ago, the indebtedness of the municipal subsystem reached the critical level, which was already unsustainable. Recognizing this, the legislation has implemented debt consolidation in several steps and has also transformed the financing system. Today, the greatest challenge is to prevent debt regenerating, to build future guarantees to address the remaining risks. Building on our audit experience and taking into account the considerations outlined above, we have made 11 recommendations to the Parliament regarding the local government subsystem. Part of these aims to maintain the equilibrium situation, while the other part aims to strengthen responsibility. Our recommendations include clarification of the rules on liquid lending to ensure that these loans do not finance a permanent shortage of funds. In order to improve the quality of farming, an annual assessment of the feasibility of economic programmes, a review of them and a need to consult the objectives of the budget plan are considered justified in the future. We also consider rethinking the entire system of the municipal debt settlement procedure on the basis of municipal responsibility. The long-term impact of these proposals is hoped that local governments will not be in a debt spiral again. Our recommendations include the need to focus on the realization of development and their future maintenance, the assessment of own resources, the financial opportunities of local communities, and the responsible commitment. Another important new aspect of municipal farming is the introduction of profit-based accounting. Our recommendations concerning the municipal sub-scheme include that information obtained from profit-based accounting should be used to address the financial risks of the municipal sub-system, both at local and central level. In this context, it is necessary to monitor, monitor and evaluate processes in the municipal sub-scheme, which gives a continuous picture of the financial, income and financial situation of the municipalities, to predict anomalies in the management of municipalities and to ensure the possibility of multiple interventions. [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The other focus area was the monitoring of higher education institutions in 2014, with 9 reports published last year and 21 reports published by the Court of Auditors this year. Based on the audit experience, we have also carried out a study on the subject, which has been published on our website. Using the holistic approach, we seek to monitor the systems and the institutions that form them, which determine the conservation and enhancement of the resources on which socio-economic sustainability is based. The Court's audit of this area was therefore justified in two respects. On the one hand, it is important that the public funds and wealth allocated to the operation of these institutions are properly managed, sustainablely, and on the other hand, it is a matter of trust that higher education institutions teach our children as a credible, exemplary organisation. In line with this, we have also made recommendations in our report on higher education. Dear House, Last year, we reached several organisations that were only partially or completely controlled by the State Audit Office. The audits confirmed the need to cover so-called white spots in terms of accountability. This is why, under the control of the national authorities, we have started the thematic group audits concerning each central budgetary institution. This is how the National Institute for Family and Social Policy, the Cultural Heritage Office, was audited in 2014. We continued to review the use of money in the constitutional chapter by checking the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. We have also made recommendations to the Honourable Parliament regarding these institutions. One important aspect of public spending is that not only tax forints should be spent properly, but also performance criteria should be imposed along the lines of effectiveness and efficiency. [[14.40]] It must be designed in such a way that they are verifiable and accountable, and this ultimately entails the issue of accountability. It is clear that unless performance requirements are met by the use of individual forints, public money users can only be asked for the regularity of public spending. During our inspections, we have faced this problem regularly and we have put it as a recommendation the need to develop a more detailed regulation that takes into account the specific sectoral features. This is important for the establishment of a set of requirements by the managing body to the institutional system that can be interpreted by specific institutions and for the continuous monitoring of its implementation. It is also a strategic challenge to identify tools to increase the effectiveness and effectiveness of controls. The audit of auditors is typically such a tool, since in many areas the high number of auditable organisations and the capacity of the State Audit Office within a defined framework have limited possibilities within a given period of time. Therefore, some elements of the related control safety net are being examined and we want to support the improvement of the operation of the body responsible for controlling the area. Accordingly, these controls included organisations involved in the audit of the use of domestic and EU funds, competition supervision and control of normative State aid. In European Union organisations, our audit experience shows that the institutional system was slow and complicated during the period under scrutiny and did not support the rapid and effective transfer of funds to beneficiaries. Our findings and conclusions also point to the transformation of the EU institutional system. Our proposals are also useful in this area, and it is reassuring that government measures to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the institutional system are ongoing. Dear Parliament, The Court of Auditors is on the side of citizens and supports good governance through its audits. These two foundations involved the control of risky areas that are part of people's daily lives. When the State Audit Office of Hungary received legal authorisation in 2011 for the control of state or municipal majority-owned enterprises with public tasks, it started to verify the BKV almost immediately and then controlled additional transport companies. Our experience has shown that there are a number of risks to this circle, through overindebtedness and hidden indebtedness, to the shortcomings in the cost calculation. Last year was also outstanding for the control of this area, since the Budapest Közterület-Sustaining Zrt. In addition to 17 theatres in company form, we have also checked 5 water utility companies and started to check 36 municipal majority-owned waste and district heating companies. It is important for both society and Parliament to ensure the continued accountability of these economic organisations and to ensure that pricing is well founded. However, our experience so far has shown that the internal rules on cost accounting on the basis of which pricing is based have not always complied with the legal requirements. On this basis, we have made the assessment of the control of cost calculation a focus area for the control of state and municipal majority-owned entities. By doing so, on the one hand, the State Court of Auditors can contribute to the soundness of the reduction in fees and, on the other hand, to improving the reliability and transparency of the pre- and post-calculations determining the prices of public services. A similar problem is the lack of ownership rights, the low level or lack of ownership supervision and control. During the inspection of the water utility companies, we found that the owner's right practitioner did not require any calculations to support the investments, nor did he verify the preservation or enrichment of the property. The situation was similar in the case of municipal majority-owned companies, since in many cases, in the absence of controls, the municipal internal controls did not contribute to the proper fulfilment of the public service mission and to the preservation of municipal property. The findings of the inspections of the water utility companies can be used in the consolidation process launched by public companies. Accordingly, we have made recommendations on this in our report. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Last year, the State Audit Office also audited the Chambers of Commerce and the enterprises that carried out practical training. This is an area of the VET system, which, while contributing to increasing the competitiveness of the country, also serves as the basis for dual training. So this control also affects the everyday lives of families, as it is important for all parents that their child acquires real and competitive knowledge in practical training. This is also in Hungary's interest. However, our experience has shown, in addition to a number of shortcomings, that control tasks, in particular monitoring of the performance of practical training, are not or are not clearly reflected in the various legislations, so the controls are not closed. On the basis of our findings, we make a recommendation, in particular, to review and modify the regulation of control tasks and to define indicators for monitoring the effectiveness of grants. In compliance with the legal obligation of the State Audit Office, he also checked the parties and party foundations last year. In 2014, we published a total of six Court reports on this subject, three on party and three on party foundations. The legality checks on the management of the parties reiterated the contradictions affecting the accounting and reporting system of the parties. Accordingly, it is recommended that the rules for accounting reporting should be laid down in separate legislation in order to ensure transparency, auditability and accountability. Last year was the year of elections, which was a statutory audit task for the State Audit Office. Although the related Court of Auditors reports were published only in 2015, I would nevertheless like to address these audits for some thought. The 2014 parliamentary election took place in a new system of running and financing compared to the previous one. In 2013, the Parliament adopted a new law on the electoral procedure and the transparency of the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament, which also gave the State Court of Auditors a well-defined audit function. A total of three reports have been drawn up on the basis of these legislative provisions. One for the individual candidates who were represented, one for the nominating organisations that were represented, and one for the control of a total of 14 nominating organisations who were not represented on request. The findings in our related reports clearly confirmed that the legislative changes in the past period have increased transparency in the use of campaign funds and improved the possibility of monitoring. Dear House, Based on the Fundamental Law, it is essential for public money users to manage their public tasks in a transparent, accountable and cost-effective manner. [[14.50]] As part of our advisory activities, last year we developed a voluntary self-test system to prevent errors and strengthen institutional resilience to corruption, with three self-tests available: one for local and ethnic authorities, and one for ecclesiastical institutions. On the basis of positive feedback, we will also develop a self-test for a further institutional circle, so this year we have also prepared it for the central budgetary bodies. We consider it important that the establishment of proper operation and public use should not depend primarily on the control organisations, since it is essentially the responsibility and responsibility of the heads of each organisation. Based on our controls, we have developed a self-test system to enable the heads of the organisations and institutions concerned to carry out self-checks and to voluntarily start correcting errors and deficiencies. We also had a successful year in the fight against fraud and corruption, since in 2014 we had more than 1584 respondents in our integrity survey, representing 55% of the total Hungarian public sector in terms of employees. Our results confirm that the integrity assessment of the State Audit Office is capable of feedback, monitoring trends, measuring the impact of government measures implemented, and indicating a change in corruption risks. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We also consider financial awareness to be important at the level of society, which is why, in line with the parliamentary decision on last year's accounts, the State Audit Office was also an active player in 2014 to support initiatives for the development of financial culture. Last year, our partner system, which expanded with another cooperation agreement, aims to promote the development of the financial culture and financial awareness of the population, thereby contributing to balanced economic development, reducing public financial vulnerability and reducing the financial risk system. Another important element of our advisory activity is the preparation of analyses and studies. Following the outbreak of the economic crisis, new demands have emerged from the SAIs. The SAIs of each country were required not only to check past events, but also to focus analysis and studies on the processes of the present and the future in the context of their advisory activities. On the other hand, support for the functioning of the well-managed state and the role of the Court of Auditors for general social welfare have also pointed to the need to develop our advisory activities. Accordingly, 20 analyses and studies were started in 2014, several of which are already available on our websites. In order to support sustainable development, we prepared four separate analyses for the Fiscal Council last year. I would like to point out that our study on the control experience of more than 150 local minority self-governments has also been discussed by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. However, on the basis of the experience of the control of national authorities, we have also formulated our recommendations to the Parliament, which we have identified as the need for regular monitoring, and we have also called attention to the management of organisations with autonomy. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, allow me to summarise in a few words the results of our organizational operations. Over the past four years, the Court has undergone a comprehensive renewal process that has affected almost all of our activities, areas and processes. There was a need for renewal, since the implementation of the tasks laid down in the new SAO Act, meeting the expectations of citizens, the Parliament and meeting international requirements required a complete internal transformation, during which we constantly considered the international methodological guidelines to be the guiding principle. In order to gain and maintain the image of recognition in public opinion, we have constantly increased our organisation. Accordingly, we are developing certain elements of our internal control system, so that our internal processes are characterised by exemplary quality, in addition to complying with legal requirements. Thanks to the conscious efficiency-enhancing measures of the last few years, the State Audit Office of Hungary managed reasonably last year, which is supported by HUF 276.8 million offered to the central budget in addition to the audit report. The State Audit Office, as a core constitutional institution, operates with exemplary transparency at international level. All of our Court's reports are public, and more and more analyses and studies are available on our website. In addition, through our news portal, we keep citizens informed about the performances, the workflow of the tax forints that are used for our operation. With our active communication activity, we also tried to reach the local levels, as there were regular electronic press conferences in which we provided the opportunity to ask questions to local media. Dear Parliament, The State Court of Auditors, on the right path, is now guarding the transparency, accountability and development of public finances as a strong, independent institution. In the future, we will continue to work in the interests of Hungary through our monitoring, advisory and analysis activities and to promote the orderly functioning of public finances and to support the maintenance of a well-managed state. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-23-116	Thank you, too, Mr Vice President, for what you have to say. I now give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, At its meeting on 2 June 2015, the Economic Committee discussed and, without voting against, proposed to Parliament for adoption the information document on the activities of the State Audit Office for 2014 and the report on the operation of the institution. At its meeting, the Committee appreciated the fact that the SAO was able to form a remnant with effective organizational development and organisation of work; this was not the case in a state institution long ago, as we heard in the former expozee. This also indicates that, indeed, the changes that the President has started - on which he informed the Economic Committee on one occasion - have been successful, therefore, because, on the one hand, the tasks were reported, this is clear from the reports and, on the other hand, that the organisation is working effectively, so that it uses as much resources as is necessary to carry out the tasks. This gives us special pleasure because we should not forget that we had a long debate at the committee meeting when we adopted the submission of the new Act on the State Audit Office, with which we specifically guaranteed that the State Audit Office will receive an additional task only if it receives additional resources. I remember the fact that it was said at that time why the State Audit Office did not implement this with a more efficient use of resources. The SAO can now prove that, even in addition to additional tasks, it is able to perform effective work with effective organisation of work. Turning to the content of the report and highlighting the essential elements, I would like to say the following. The mission of the State Court of Auditors is to promote transparency, order and contribute to good governance through sound professional and value-creating controls on public finances. [[15.00]] Over the past four years, the Court has undergone a comprehensive renewal process that has transformed almost all areas of activity and processes. Thanks to the results of recent years, the Court of Auditors is today a strong, independent institution to safeguard the transparency, accountability and development of public finances. Last year, 233 Court reports were published, and the Court of Auditors was able to launch an ever-increasing number of public finances. On the basis of the findings contained in its reports, the State Audit Office made in 2014 a proposal to 574 recipients based on a total of 2642 measures. In practice, the State Audit Office, acting under its statutory authority, will further enforce the exploitation and utilisation approach reflected in the legislation. Number of reports: local governments 105, municipal internal control 40, municipal companies 18, individual topics 20, municipal assets 19, municipal finances 11, higher education institutions 9, parties, party foundations 6, water utility companies 3. The State Audit Office has made the issue of the regulation of cost calculation, which was also addressed by the expozé, a focus area for the control of public and municipal majority-owned, part-owned entities. This will help the State Audit Office to improve the reliability and transparency of the pre- and post-calculation determining the prices of public services. László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office at the meeting of the Committee, indicated in his reply to my question on this subject that there were difficult price-setting conditions in terms of cost-calculation deficiencies, Mr. As has been pointed out, in many cases the true economic content of pricing cannot be known. In this respect, it stated that opaque pricing should be eliminated and precise accounting conditions should be established. The legal conditions on which pricing is based are given, but rather there is a problem with farming practices that lead to operational and operational management difficulties. In this respect, the President stressed that strengthening related supervisory rights could be the solution, which is certainly one of the priorities of the next period in terms of cost calculations in municipal and public organisations. In the course of its audits in relation to the Court of Auditors' reports published in 2014, the State Audit Office obtained a total of 966 organisations, compared with 569 in 2013. The number of controls has increased by more than 70 percent. The increase is linked, inter alia, to the increase in the number of municipal inspections, as the SAO reached 408 municipalities last year compared to 249 municipalities in 2013. More than 60 percent of those audited were central budgetary bodies and local authorities. Most central budgetary bodies were affected by the closure audit, i.e. 226, which accounts for more than 70% of this type of audited. Several Court reports and documents were discussed by the parliamentary committees and the State Audit Office also supported the Parliament with information materials. In addition, through its advisory activities, it has been involved in the legislative and legislative process in a broad sense, as several draft legislative proposals have been drawn up with its opinion. The audit of the implementation of the central budget of the previous year is the most important task of the State Audit Office, the credibility of which is one of the keys to the operation of the rule of law. During the closing proceedings, the executive authority reports to the legislative authority whether it has collected the revenue required by the Central Budget Act and has regularly spent the public money thus received for the purposes determined by the Parliament. The audit of judicial management for the years 2008-2011 provided a deeper and broader overview of the management processes of legal predecessors, the adequacy of the controls applied, and their weaknesses, to the system of judicial institutions renewed in 2012. The State Audit Office verified the operation of the previous and renewed public procurement system, the purpose of the audit was to determine whether the amendments to the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act contributed to the achievement of the objectives of the legislation between 2008 and 2012. The State Audit Office also monitors the exercise of ownership rights over state property annually, as required by law. For the year 2013, the State Audit Office verified the environmental design of the control required for the exercise of ownership rights, the regularity of the measures in relation to the transfer of assets and take-over provided for in the legislation, and the establishment and operation of the internal control system in the case of the management of state-owned real estate. The Court continued to carry out the thematic group audits on municipalities in 2014 and published 196 Court reports, of which 18 for municipal companies. The statutory obligation of the State Court of Auditors to monitor the management of parties and party foundations receiving budgetary support every two years. The SAO supports the Parliament in the renewal of the legal environment by presenting the shortcomings identified in its reports during the statutory control of the management of parties and party foundations. The proposal for a decision, which, as I mentioned at the outset, was supported without a vote against by the Economic Committee, referred to in point 2 of what the expoze also contained in the pre-closure part, namely that it is very important that the State Audit Office has taken significant steps in the dissemination of an integrity-based organisational culture. I think that one of the important elements of transparent and accountable public spending is the work in the field of integrity development, which has been done very well and at a very high level in recent years in cooperation with government agencies. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would also ask my fellow Members to discuss the proposal for a parliamentary decision on the prospectus and the report on the activities of the State Audit Office, to help us with our work and to accept this parliamentary decision. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-23-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[There's no candidate.]] No. Dear Parliament, Then it is time for the speeches by the Members. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2015-06-23-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At the start of the renewal of the democratic state settlement in the second half of 2010, and after the adoption of the new Fundamental Law in 2011, the Hungarian legislature took decisive steps to strengthen the audit possibilities and independence of the State Audit Office. The Parliament has created and adopted the new SAO law among the first fundamental laws, which can support the effectiveness of the institution's operation more effectively than the previous regulations. We can also say that the development of a new regulatory environment has ended the era of checks without consequences in Hungary. The positive signs of this were already evident in the last year, and the 2014 State Audit Office report shows that Parliament made a good decision four years ago, and the main audit body of the Parliament understood and put into practice the main message of the new Court of Auditors Act, which entered into force in 2011, that is the intention of the legislators. Accordingly, in 2014 the State Audit Office of Hungary continued to promote transparency in public finances and contribute to so-called good governance by means of its sound professional audit, as defined in its mission. Last year, with the proposals of the State Audit Office, it promoted the regular economic, efficient and efficient use and use of public funds, as well as enhanced support for Parliament's work and various recommendations for Parliament. [[15.10]] The SAO's recommendations concern areas and current issues where the State Court of Auditors has unique audit experience. The Court's recommendations are not only forward-looking, but also point out the direction of development. Recommendations on performance requirements or comments on the local government subsystem are aimed at effective and efficient public spending, strengthening responsibility, preventing a series of economic and budgetary errors typical of economic policy before 2010, and, not least, reducing existing risks. To sum up, the State Audit Office will continue to keep an eye on public funds, the Hungarian people's tax forints, and will increasingly support the state's efficient operation. Of course, accountability and accountability are closely linked to the concept of responsibility. This means that it cannot remain without consequences if the public money is not managed properly or in accordance with the law. Accordingly, the infringements detected during the Court's audits cannot remain without legal consequences. On the basis of the suspicions found during the audits in the interest of accountable public funds, the State Audit Office made around 50 marks last year to the authorities with different procedural and investigative powers, initiated an appeal procedure in 21 cases and carried out 45 investigations on the basis of the SAO's findings. The above figures also show that the State Audit Office works closely with the authorities and makes use of the instruments provided by the law. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to go further in my line of thought on the consequences of this Parliamentary motion for a resolution before us. In 2007 the Hungarian Parliament drew the State Audit Office's attention to the strengthening of the integrity-based administrative culture, the reduction of corruption risks and the transparency of the use of public funds. Two years later, and in 2009 a parliamentary decision was taken to strengthen these efforts. Today, in 2015, we can also say that there has been a unique international comparison of cooperation in the fight against corruption in Hungary. By recasting the Dutch sample, the State Audit Office has created a Hungarian model for mapping the corruption risks of the public sector, which contributes increasingly to reducing the corruption risks of Hungarian public institutions and also to strengthening the Hungarian state's functioning. I believe that the Court of Auditors' activities in this area are certainly worthy of recognition. Furthermore, I consider it important to point out that the 2014 State Audit Office report clearly shows that in many cases state-owned and municipal-owned companies are still not functioning properly and that a number of critical areas can be identified for these organisations. It is also important that the majority of these companies perform public tasks, provide public services, i.e. they are in daily contact with citizens and, as such, have a significant impact on the quality of life of people. As a typical problem, the State Audit Office notes that the cost calculation for public tasks, which has already been mentioned by Vice-President in its expozee, does not comply with the legal requirements of many companies. This is also a particularly sensitive area because the cost calculation should be the basis for pricing, i.e. it depends on people actually paying for a public service as much as it is actually worth. Looking at the pre-cost reduction period, it is also clear that private companies have achieved extra profit more than once in Hungary. Fortunately, however, this period is over and it is in our interest to maintain the long-term results achieved so far. Following this spirit, the state has taken an active role in several market segments in order to protect its citizens. This approach has also opened a new era in Hungary, but it remains important to stress that this thinking must be continued in the lives of state and municipal companies. In line with this objective, such companies should operate according to a clear and uniform set of requirements that effectively serve the interests of society. We can also say that it is necessary to set market performance criteria aimed at increasing the quality of public services, not at achieving extra profit. These principles are, of course, implemented by corporate management in everyday operations. However, the problems raised in the Court's report have also clearly shown that this management system is still not suitable for the above objectives in many cases for the majority of controlled companies. As mentioned above, the State Audit Office has unique audit experience and, on the basis of the shortcomings identified, has an objective insight into the critical areas in which the management system needs to be developed. Accordingly, it is not only justified, but it is also necessary for the Court of Auditors' functions laid down in the Fundamental Law and the SAO Act to broaden the advisory work on these systems and to support ethical public financial management training. For this reason, too, I would like to suggest to my fellow Members that we support the related proposal for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the report, it can also be stated that the State Court of Auditors has fully complied with its statutory obligations, placed risky areas under control, and supported the work of both the Fiscal Council and the parliamentary committees with useful and substantial analyses and studies. It is also important to point out that the State Audit Office has also supported initiatives such as the fight against corruption, the creation of an integrity-based public administration or the development of the financial culture of the Hungarian population. Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, without the need for completeness, I would like to list a number of figures that clearly reflect the SAO's activities last year. Last year, the Court published a total of 233 reports, and its activities were widely used. Last year, the SAO was present at 966 sites, proposed some 2642 proposals to 574 recipients, and a total of 158 documents were discussed at 31 meetings by the various parliamentary committees. The figures and statistics are obviously not irrelevant, but in my opinion, the performance of the State Audit Office cannot be measured very well by the figures. It is much more important that they come to the surface through controls, the problems and areas to be developed, where further progress is still needed. However, there is also a need for continuous identification of instruments that can promote both the orderly functioning of public bodies and the responsible use of public funds, irrespective of controls. A typical example is, among other things, the so-called voluntary self-test system mentioned by the Vice-President, which was developed by the State Audit Office for municipal and ethnic authorities and ecclesiastical institutions. I believe that such innovations are a good indicator of the innovativeness and helpful approach of the State Audit Office, as they can also improve the functioning of local authorities, national authorities and their institutions, which are not yet directly within the scope of the Court's audits, but are in any event intended to keep their activities under control. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the report before us and in the light of the arguments listed above, I would like to ask you with respect to support the proposal for a resolution that has been tabled, thereby strengthening the parliamentary confidence in the State Audit Office. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-06-23-120	Thank you very much. István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP, will be the speaker and lead speaker. Here.
u2015-06-23-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I almost burst into tears, as Congressman Mihály Witzmann spoke about the regular use of public funds, especially after the previous agenda, when the law was passed on the ten-billion-dollar playoffs of some casinos and gambling, which, of course, will then be regular. So if the State Audit Office checks anything, it will, according to your laws, see how regular it goes to the private pockets of the money that otherwise belongs to the budget. [[It's constant noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] So that was really touching. I don't want to joke about your name, dear Congressman Witzmann, but really, I really liked that, because the rules are the basis of everything. If non-compliant rules are adopted, it cannot be expected that the audit will be regular and effective. The other one was beautiful, what he said about the independence of the State Audit Office. It was so created that they put an active Fidesz MP in the name of independence at the very beginning. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: And a passive MSZP!]] And a little deserted MSZP congressman. I have great respect for the Vice-President for his professional work, but he can't be regarded as an MSZP in the least. [[15.20]] He handed his own town over to a Fidesz candidate, so it's a waste of money for someone else, which is paid by public money in the form of appropriate salaries. It is not revenge that tells me that I have personally been sued by the Court of Auditors' Legal Advisor; perhaps the President did not know, the Vice-President might have. So, the subordinate body of the Parliament is suing a Member of Parliament for a sentence I have spoken here in Parliament, and one of the newspapers has published it, and with a no-show technique that I wasn't sued at my address, so I didn't know about it, but where I was holding my reception hours. So it's a classified case of unfaithful treatment, that Runaway Barnabas was paid money for which he hadn't worked. So when the vice-president said that the inspectors should also be checked, I can agree perfectly with that, because what if the inspectors are not checked and, despite the best presidential and vice-presidential intentions, the legal aid department engages in such adventures? I am prepared to be sued once again by the State Audit Office for the greatest glory of democracy, but I hope they will not commit such an ugly thing. Turning to the evaluation of some of the 233 reports carried out by the State Audit Office in 2014, I would like to say that it is interesting what was found in the case of the Hungarian Competition Authority that, as a result of an overdue claim notification, the possibility of partial recovery was also lost in the case of claims relating to the public authority activity, i.e. not the total recovery, but also the possibility of partial recovery. In other words, the Hungarian Competition Authority has lost significant revenue, so indirectly the Hungarian State, and there is another aspect of why this could be forgotten: this money, which has not been recovered, has remained with some competitor. So if someone could look at the reason for forgetfulness and see why they forgot to demand this recovery in time, then look at where that money is and who forgot it. It doesn't matter. Therefore, it is also necessary to check the person who has to enforce such money. The following is what I would like to highlight, which is basically a positive point on my part in the SAO report, i.e. with regard to control activities, in order to ensure a more balanced management of the courts in many areas, it is proposed that measures should be taken. I agree with this on my part and on the part of the faction, particularly with regard to more sound planning and, in the case of court proceedings, to improve the transparency of budgetary processes. I'd just like to quote some of the SAO's findings-- they're pretty rough. In the last four years, the courts have suffered HUF 7.3 billion in budget cuts. This means that judicial activity may have been funded at the level of planning, but as a result of blocking, I think it is quite clear that judicial work is underfunded. So what we hear is that certain lawsuits go on for years is certainly linked to these seals and to the underfunded courts. The county courts also had to waive an irrecoverable claim of HUF 7 billion, so it is also missing. All in all, it's a shockingly big deal. It is interesting what was stated in the case of the Hungarian Institute of Culture and the Fine Arts Lectorate that the development of the control environment only partially complied with the legal requirements during the controlled period. That's how you write it; we could also write in Hungarian that it was irregular because it didn't comply. During the controlled period, the institution's rules on asset management did not serve to ensure the efficient and economical operation of state assets, the protection of its consistency and the preservation of its value. So this is, if not unfaithful, or at least careless management of the state's assets. I very much hope that, following the SAO's report, the Institute of Culture will take steps to address these shortcomings. It is interesting that shortcomings have also been identified with regard to certain agri-research institutes of the Ministry of Rural Development, which are financed through several stages. This is the level to which government control is rarely provided because there is a Ministry, in this case the Ministry of Rural Development, and beyond that there is also a transfer of funding from agricultural research institutions. The internal control system of the institutions did not ensure proper management of the financial and asset management of the institutions during the controlled period, transparency of management and asset management, and did not contribute to the prevention of irregularities and errors. I think this shows that in depth it is appropriate for the State Audit Office to broaden the scope of the audited persons. The vice-president also mentioned the audit of the National Institute for Family and Social Policy in his exposé, where errors have also been identified. In all respects, the regular provision of tasks, the use of public funds and the regularity of asset management are not ensured, and therefore the obligation of responsible management, which is also enshrined in the Fundamental Law, is not fully fulfilled. It is interesting that the Cultural Heritage Office did not have sufficient compliance with all the requirements for the proper provision of tasks and public funds and the management of property. This is so many repetitions of the same text today that it would probably be worth training these organisations, what is proper operation, because they may not even know what rules are not being complied with precisely, because this would require a sufficient amount of knowledge. I don't suppose you deliberately disobeyed these rules, I'm in good faith, perhaps because of ignorance - then you should teach them. According to the SAO, improving efficiency and efficiency in the provision of public tasks at the Cultural Heritage Office is essential. Due to serious professional errors in some higher education institutions, the Court's report also proposes that labour law be held accountable and proposes to take consistent measures. That's interesting because it's a little bit like supporting or wanting the introduction of the Chancellor's system, which is a major violation of university autonomy. So I would like to continue to emphasise the opinion of the MSZP that we do not think this total chancellor system is right, that we are in favour of university autonomy, and that we believe that proper management could be positively influenced by controls and practical training. In controlling the exercise of ownership rights over state assets, the exercise of ownership rights and the established and operated control system are still not considered complete by the experience of the State Audit Office's investigation. It is worth mentioning that, in the last month alone, the House has discussed at least five legislative proposals relating to the management of state assets and the exercise of ownership rights. This is a pace - it has been only a few days between the submissions - so that they are slowly no longer aware of the government, and who should apply it, how the system should be designed, how the management of wealth should be run properly. With these ad hoc amendments, efficiency cannot in any way be increased. [[15.30]] They seem to be able to do more in government practice, but this results in a very chaotic state. It may not even be easy to check after such rapid changes in the rules. We can therefore conclude, in summary, that a number of irregularities and errors have been identified by the State Audit Office within the public sphere, but that is what they do. Several reports pointed out that the principle of responsible management of public funds was violated. In any case, it is also the responsibility of the government, because in many of the bodies examined, the government should enforce the requirement of proper management, and it is clear from the reports that they are not doing it entirely. As a matter of fact, according to the prospectus, the auditors were able to carry out follow-up checks for the first time in 2014. This will enable them to monitor the acceptance and proper implementation of their proposals sent in response to previous audits. So the question is, since this is a new legal institution, the question arises as to how this worked in practice, how the auditors see the results and practices of the audit, whether the adoption of the proposals of the State Audit Office, the implementation of the possibility of follow-up checks, and what happens after the follow-up check re-creates problems and critical elements. Although the Court of Auditors has indeed made sound and forward-looking proposals, the recipients often do not accept this. One such case was addressed to the majority of the government in the autumn of 2013. According to the analysis signed by President Domokos, the Hungarian sovereign debt rules are professionally flawed. Thus, the sovereign debt formula is virtually useless, since it does not include the objective pursued, the applicability to as many economic situations as possible. Thus, the sovereign debt formula is not capable of serving a cyclical economic policy, which is considered to be almost undisputed by economics, or of forcing sound management in a manner that can be observed. One of the most important criticisms raised by the Court of Auditors is that there are serious shortcomings in the Act on Hungary's economic stability. In addition, there are errors at conceptual level, even with regard to sovereign debt as a concept, it has not been possible to establish a normal rule until now. The head of the Court of Auditors said that the answer to the question of how much the Hungarian government debt was at the end of 2010 was when and who said it. So we're talking about some kind of unification here. Mr. President, do I have 15 minutes?
u2015-06-23-122	15 minutes, yeah.
u2015-06-23-123	Then I'll thank you in the first round, and I'll continue. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2015-06-23-124	Thank you very much, and for watching the clock. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to speak. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to make a very brief remark to Mr Józsa's speech, not to what he quoted from the State Audit Office's report, but to mention it for the sake of the facts. Congressman Józsa spoke of the underfunded state of the court. In 2010, the court's budget support amounted to HUF 65 billion, which in 2016 was more than HUF 90 billion under the budget law adopted this morning. So in five years, the funding of the courts increased by more than one third, and even from the year 2015 to the 16th, it increased by HUF 3 billion. I just wanted to say from this that this criticism is acceptable to anyone, but it is quite counterproductive to point out from the mouth of the forces in the government in 2010 that the courts are underfunded. Imagine how underfunded the budget of the court chapter could have been if budget support was less than one third. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-23-126	Thank you. So we'll go back to the lead speakerial round. The lead speaker of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-127	Mr President, Dear House, The series of surprises has caught me in the last few minutes, as it is very rare that, at this initial stage of the debate, a reaction is coming in the middle of a leading speakerial round, which is also meaningful. Keep this good habit and hold on to the end of the debate, and I urge as many of my fellow Members from the pro-government benches to take an active part in this debate. The second surprise is that KDNP has no opinion again, it has no lead speaker again, it has nothing to say again about the control system and its shortcomings, because we also need to talk about shortcomings that clearly arise along the control system. It can be seen that the operation of a Court of Auditors system is usually characterised by how many forints it saves for the national economy along the lines of its effectiveness. This may best be measured on the British system, where it can be quite accurately stated how much benefits can be obtained in the long term by adding a fontsterling or euro or any currency. I've been saying this for decades, so I'm using different currencies. So it is quite accurate to say, whether it is an Anglo-Saxon-type system or a Western European system, what benefits can be realised by supporting the operation of the system with additional resources. In Hungary, instead of a measurable, traceable report, we get an actual pamphlet collection, a propaganda material, which, although it has references, has a web-based explanation, but, overall, is not suitable for the members of the Economic Committee to verify on this basis whether the Court of Auditors has actually met all the requirements, requirements and legal obligations. So this material alone is not suitable for the purpose for which you have created it, it has been placed under the roof. It can also be said that the Court of Auditors has unaccounted for tasks that simply hang in the air and we cannot find any answers to why they are not addressed, even though we have already asked questions about the previous report from last year, before last year. To give a single example: according to the cited law, which lists and organises the tasks of the State Audit Office in some way, its 5. According to § (1) of the Act, the State Audit Office gives an opinion to the Parliament on the legality and appropriateness of the use of investment appropriations involving State commitments. However, the prospectus does not include any investigations in this regard, at least not in its depth, but I believe that the whole country would be interested in the SAO's opinion, such as its opinion on the appropriateness of stadium constructions or on the priority public investment where it would be expected that this perhaps most important piece of the control system should be represented, expressed and made recommendations that allow for further action in the interests of the entire national economy. They could at least have informed the National Assembly of the number of investment appropriations involving State commitments that existed within and outside the country last year, what the Court of Auditors has examined, what findings have been reached. I don't suppose you didn't investigate these. And, quite simply, we do not know of a Court of Auditors inquiry aimed at establishing the appropriateness of public investment, even though this would be a very important direction, a very important requirement to be holders of a new mass of information along the lines of practicality. It can also be seen that, although, according to the Treasury Register, we have had a great deal of difficulty in finding out how many out of some 900 budgetary bodies have been examined, but it remains that when these bodies are examined by the Court of Auditors, what they are looking at in particular and exactly what they mean by operation, that, where appropriate, all indicators relating to the effectiveness of the work carried out by the auditors come out. Moreover, what is going on with the hundreds of local authorities that are not controlled by the Court of Auditors and others, which are not covered by the entire scope of audit, while public funds are flowing through them, is being used. The President of the SAO also does not disclose aggregated national data, so from this report we do not know whether or not they will be checked every five years or every 20 years. [[15.40]] We get a total number that doesn't reveal the important details without which we can't determine the effectiveness of the organization's operation. By the way, about a third of the income of the English Court of Auditors is obtained from international mandates where it is invited to audit and act and, where appropriate, competes with the international audit firms Big Four for external orders, one of its success indicators. I do not say that this would be the way in Hungary, not at all, but it is certainly indicative that the State Audit Office can talk about one of its main indicators of success, considering that it spends 8-9 billion forints a year, but how effective this would be, how much profit the national economy is profiting from it, they are simply hiding from us, I dare not assume the even worse scenario that you do not know how much of the budgetary resources that you have are receiving from the entire national economy. We can also add that the Act governing the function of the State Audit Office also states that, in principle, the SAO controls the management of the assets covered by public finances, the management of assets, the activities of state-owned or majority self-government-owned entities to preserve and convert assets and the rest. Then how do you respond to the legitimate question of why the SAO didn't control the vast amounts of assets such as MNV Zrt., MOL, MVM, MÁV, BKK, the defence or the TIG? Where are the tests on these, where are the conclusions, where are the very important recommendations that would allow you to manage these assets cleanly, without assuming that anyone is on an unclean path, but it is necessary to check whether the roads are really clean. I will not mention that we have been saying for years that there is a painful and amazing lack of a national inventory, because as long as a national inventory, a national inventory, does not exist - and this is your continuing failure - it is very difficult to determine whether Hungary's government is doing a fair job with national wealth - not with state wealth, with national wealth - at all. And the SAO has been ignoring this sinful omission for years now. The reason for this, Mr President, is not here, but, Mr Vice-President, I feel it is your duty to share with us, let us know why the SAO is not disturbed by the absence of a national inventory. We must also say that when we wish to draw further conclusions, the proposal for a decision that has come before us is at least funny. It is funny from the point of view of the fact that it contains such lonzunges as the National Assembly recognises that the State Audit Office recognises the implementation of such activities and its activities to promote an integrity-based organisational culture. I beg you, perhaps you couldn't have come up with a more general and lonzunge-filled text, while the exact aim would be to have forints, transparent, traceable performance indicators in connection with the operation of this organisation. Compared to this, we get a text like this, which could have been written in the 1950s and 1960s, and it's quite simply impossible to do with it. At the same time, we see that the prospectus is moving forward at least to the extent that the number of people checked has increased by 70 percent last year, and we accept this, and on page 15, we read that 309 central budgetary bodies, 300 municipalities, 152 economic companies, 105 national governments, 66 associations, 9 public bodies, 8 foundations, 7 individual entrepreneurs, 4 foundations, 3 cooperatives and 3 parties last year. But what did you test for these? What was the purpose of his inspection? So, quite simply, important conclusions are missing, which are simply not derived from the great number war, math, nor can the SAO's activities be measured, nor any indicator of its performance. And it can also be seen that, let's say, the audit of the closing accounts of the municipalities as a priority task has been transferred to the Treasury, a body that is not an audit body. So how can such system failures occur without the SAO speaking about them? ! We also see that no conclusions can be drawn as to the main findings of the SAO's investigations; how many reports have reached the court stage, how many final judgments have been made; whether performance tests have been carried out, if so, what type of results they were; what are the quantified benefits of the investigations. I can always conclude here, because this is a vast area with you, in 2013-14, the United Kingdom Court of Auditors contributed to the savings of over a billion pounds of public money. That's obvious. Just as statistics have been produced that, with each pound, £16 was added to the common register in the way that this organization did. Why do we not see such a performance measurement indicator in Hungary? Why can't we see such precise, prudent numbers from which conclusions can be drawn? Compared to this, we got a fancy propaganda material, which is very difficult to do on its own. We also see the classic task of the SAO in terms of its activities, the independent audit has almost been degraded into a form of ancillary activity, as we list other types of activities or additional activities: macroeconomic analyses, advisory activities on management systems, describing the relationship between competitiveness and sustainable growth, ethical public finance management training, integrity assessment, holistic monitoring approach, financial review, press analyses, press conferences and so on. But what we can see is that, in terms of the whole range of activities, the overall activity is moving from independent control to the most important task to a very large number of activities, and it is very difficult to conclude from this - I stress once again - how effective the activity of this organisation is in HUF, how much profit is realised from a consolidated budget resource at the level of the national economy, and whether the State Audit Office fulfils not only the compliance requirements, but also the mandatory tasks of the law. Therefore, until these shortcomings are resolved, we cannot support and vote in favour of the package before us, but if we are given fair answers to this question, then this situation may obviously change, but these fair answers may require measurable action and that these answers may not be obtained in the middle and end of a parliamentary debate, but indeed, when they put the material before Parliament or before the committee responsible for Parliament, then this should be something that can be followed up, transparent and quantifiable. And I would also like to mention once again that the requirement for us not only to have a national inventory prepared, but also to be able to measure the activities of the SAO in such a way that its economic benefits can be detected. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-23-128	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament, is now leading speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, a number of scandalous developments have brought into the spotlight the various control bodies of the state, such as broker scandals, to the unacceptable quality of the work of financial supervision, and the tax office was brought into the spotlight precisely because of the SAO's control. Domestic control systems, such as financial market supervision, consumer protection, labour authority or tax control, are not doing their job in an acceptable way, and there is an urgent need for a change of content, because of the new challenge of state control, due to our membership of the European Union, globalisation and the continuous development of technology. There have been players on the market who have already tried it in the West, but here are mostly unknown methods of debauchery, putting state control at a real challenge. But it seems that by far the biggest challenge facing the State Audit Office is political debauchery and a climate-building fever centrally organised by the government. If you consider that György Matolcsy has spent 340 billion forints from the MNB while the SAO's investigators were on the ground, and that the MNB has channeled 1.8 billion forints to the Századvég Foundation, it will immediately become more understandable what we are talking about. The operation of the SAO cannot be taken seriously as long as Ildikó Vida, president of the NAV, can examine himself; as long as the competent ministry excuses the funding of the Roma municipality; as long as the Prime Minister's son-in-law wins suspicious applications. Or there is the National Asset Management Ltd., which was aired the other day by the press that an audit committee started in 2012. it investigates dozens of MNB companies, and it hardly receives any orders from the market. [[15.50]] Not the excuses and the latest PR maneuvers of the Habony works are expected of the government, but the immediate steps: the elimination of offshore business, the continuous investigation of the wealth of politicians and their families, the detection of chained VAT fraud, the real competition in EU applications. These were all proposed by the LMP and voted against by the ruling parties. Among other things, LMP would immediately stop unnecessary investments such as stadium constructions, huge amounts of money will be wasted at the party media called public media and in the form of Tao grants for the top sport. The SAO also proved unable to control the campaign funds of the parties. Transparency International asked the SAO last June to compare the reports with reality, but they only received the answer that the audit powers of the Court of Auditors were binding and that they could only be examined within the limits laid down by law. According to the SAO's report published in March this year, it finally concluded that the total expenditure of the parties acquired a parliamentary mandate on campaign activities did not exceed the statutory threshold. The civilians did not accept this clumsy explanation and talked about the fall of the campaign law. To date, civil society organisations fighting corruption claim that Fidesz spent around four times as much on last year's election campaign as the legislation in force would allow. Until the State Audit Office regains its true independence, we will be able to list these government-motivated money distribution methods until the very end of the day, nothing will change. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-23-130	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As an independent Member is not present in the Chamber, we are now going to hear a voice from the minority advocate asked by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue, and then translates this into Hungarian, which we are listening to. Here you go.
u2015-06-23-131	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parlament, sehr geehrter Vizevorsitzende Herr Warwasovszky! Erlauben Sie mir, dass ich den Standpunkt des Ausschusses, der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten über das Informationsmaterial des Staatlichen Rechnungshofs B/4745 das für das Parlament zusammengestellt wurde, dartelle. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Vice President Warvasovszky, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at B/4745. Information on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2014 and the report on the operation of the institution to Parliament. Reading through the material, the first firm opinion that is formed in man is that if there is an institution and organisation in Hungary today, which treats nationalities living in Hungary, national governments, so to speak, according to their importance and weight, and even provides strong positive discrimination, it is definitely the State Audit Office of Auditors. In 2014, 233 Court reports were issued, of which 105, 45 percent, and nearly half of them were carried out on the control of local self-governments, and more than half of the controlled municipal authorities are also linked to the control of national authorities. If I add that the control of more than 60 local minority self-governments was completed in 2013, while the year 2014 was carried out in parallel and this year the comprehensive controls of national minority self-governments for the years 2010-2014, i.e. five years, I think it is obvious to everyone that the audit of national minority self-governments is now an essential part of the work of the State Audit Office. I would like to say right now, in the first place, that I am not saying this with a negative approach, but, on the contrary, we are very pleased with this activity. We welcome the SAO audits, because we are convinced that studies carried out by a truly independent, professionally prepared apparatus give an objective and undisputable picture of the operation of the national authorities, and that, in addition to the identification of occasional errors, recommendations are made to eliminate them, and they are attached to the action plans, which provide us with significant professional assistance and support to ensure legal operation. However, we are also aware that in recent years the vast majority of minority self-governments have managed with a minimum amount of HUF 150-200 thousand per year, which requires a full, comprehensive audit of only two or three auditors for a few days. It was a grateful task to control national authorities, and it is not comparable to the control of municipalities or institutions with tens of billions of farmers. In this way, we can clearly conclude that the State Audit Office and the national authorities are mutually good and useful partners. I hope that this will continue in the future, although I am very happy to tell the Vice-President that, following the HUF 2 billion increase in support in 2015, Hungary will receive an additional HUF 2 billion HUF 63,4 million in additional funding from the Hungarian nationalities, which is why in the coming years, we will give a little more work to the State Audit Office. In December 2014, the State Audit Office carried out a summary evaluation study on 155 local minority self-government audits completed in 2013 and the first half of 2014. In December 2014, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary presented and discussed this analysis, a summary study on the control of local minority self-governments. On the basis of the personal responsibility of the State Court of Auditors, 50 percent of the 50 marks submitted to the investigating authorities in 2014, concern higher education institutions, 28 percent of the municipalities, 10 percent the central government bodies, 8 percent the majority of local government-owned companies, and we are pleased that the minority authorities are in the category of only 4 per cent, while nearly 50 per cent of the closed audit reports and more than 20 per cent of the recipients are local minority self-governments. This clearly means and demonstrates that the operation and management of local ethnic authorities is clean, regular and reassuring. However, there are, of course, parts of the information report that, in our view, are not sufficiently pronounced or, rather, make us think further. One of these important points is the cooperation, relations between local authorities and local self-governments, and the vulnerability of municipal self-governments. According to the nationality law, of course, the local government and the municipal minority self-government are equal partners, they are not subject to and over each other, but in practice it works little, the operation of the minority self-governments is in many cases and is highly vulnerable to the functioning of the municipal authorities. The SAO's report also states, I quote, that the laws in force require the conclusion of a cooperation agreement approved by the local minority authorities and the body of representatives of local authorities, ensuring the proper conditions for the management and functioning of local minority self-governments. [[16.00]] In addition, there has been further experience of controls that the regularity of the management of local self-governments depends to a large extent on the responsibilities and quality of the local authorities which conclude cooperation agreements with them and provide operating conditions. It could also be said that the key to transparent and regular local minority self-governments is in the hands of the notary of the local government. On behalf of the Hungarian nationalities, I would like to thank the heads of the SAO and their staff for making this clear and clear. It is very instructive to note that the State Audit Office made a proposal in 2014 based on a finding of 2642 measures, of which 1206, or 46 percent, related to the control of national authorities. This is a fairly high number for the first hearing compared to 105 controlled ethnic authorities, on average 14 per check. But if you look at its internal breakdown, in the closed 155 checks, 1311 of the 1758 findings, exactly 75% of the municipal government is addressed, so the notary, the notary or the mayor, and only 447 statements are addressed by the local minority self-government under investigation. In addition, the findings addressed to the local government have nothing to do with the national government investigated in a given world. The irregularities, shortcomings that arise in relation to municipal self-governments, but in the operation of municipal municipalities, we do not consider that they should fall within the reports of the national self-governments. In particular, whether or not the body of representatives of the local government approved the cooperation agreement with the municipal self-government; whether or not it was incorporated by the local government in its rules of organisation and operation; whether or not the municipal government properly regulated matters relating to the financial counter-proposal, validation, replacement of the persons designated for them in its own competence, these are all matters which the local self-government has nothing to do with, has no say in, has no influence on, and in most cases even has no information. I'm going to go on, it doesn't have to be, because it's not his job. At the same time, anyone who only looks at how many findings have been made in relation to the SAO inspection of local ethnic authorities and does not go into the details - most people do not go into the details, the annexes - will get a completely false picture of the primary figures of the checks on the functioning of local ethnic authorities. We therefore propose this issue for consideration, since, in particular, in the one-stop-shop system, when the SAO simultaneously examines a local government, a local government and local self-governments, so to speak, there is no reason to prevent the SAO's findings on the activities of local self-governments in relation to local minority self-governments from being included in the audit report of the local minority self-government, but in the final SAO report of the municipal authorities. I propose that Vice-President and the SAO consider this point later. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I would also like to think further about the possible elimination and elimination of the monopoly imposed by the law which leads to the vulnerability of municipal self-governments, namely, I believe that there is no obstacle to determining the value of the financial management tasks required by the law for the local government by means of a cost calculation, and to giving the municipal self-government the opportunity to carry out my financial economic tasks with the local government, or to any other person who is qualified to do so from the support received at that value. I would like to stress that the suggestion of this may seem a little new, but I would refer back to the fact that for a long time the municipal self-government did not have its own bank account, only the sub-account of the local government; when it already had its own bank account, it could only be with the bank where the local government was, today it is free to choose a bank. From now on, ab ovo is no longer an issue of a lack of a separate bank account. I know this is not a question of control, it is a question of regulation, but the results of the audit have shown that these issues cannot be bypassed. In the same way, I raise the obligation to spend task-based subsidies in one year, which I think is an unnecessary, non-justifiable strict requirement for minority self-governments. Finally, I would like to thank the SAO for its audits and professional assistance, as I have just mentioned, and I would like to inform you that the State Audit Office is B/4745. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary agrees with the proposal for a decision made by the Economic Commission on 2 June 2015 and proposes to the Parliament for adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2015-06-23-132	Welcome, fellow Members. There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2015-06-23-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really glad you're out of the bag. Just a little numerical clarification, my dear Secretary of State Répássy: if funding has increased from 65 billion to 90 billion, it is not a third, but a 50 percent increase. I know you're a lawyer, but if we're gonna be accurate... If I add, what is really one third, is that funding for higher education has been reduced from around 180 billion to 120 billion, and even in this context, professional problems are found by the State Audit Office, perhaps not by accident. You have, therefore, transformed the funding considerably. Or the State Audit Office also talks about the post-budget management of the institutions that there is a regular accumulation of debt holdings. For example, for hospitals, the debt at the end of the year is over HUF 100 billion each year. This shows that health care is heavily underfunded. This is, let's say, shown by your budget policy, 300 billion forints were withdrawn from the financing of health care, and this is what it shows. However, it is also apparent from municipal funding that a third of the funding has also been withdrawn from the social sphere. So it is a good one-third of what the Secretary of State says only in minus: higher education has fallen by one-third and what I have said. What I mentioned as a lockdown, and asked whether it did not result in under-financing in the courts, I was reassured that their funding had increased by 50 percent. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-23-134	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa in two minutes. [[16.10]]
u2015-06-23-135	Mr President, Dear House, According to the SAO's information on its activities, the number of people audited increased by more than 70 percent last year. In this context, the questions raised by my fellow Members have already been raised. A specific question is what was the subject of the Court's investigations in about one third of the central budget bodies, what in other places, how many audit days, translated: how much money was used for these investigations, which were the main findings. I very much hope that, without the shortcomings of the prospectus, we will be able to find an answer here. Once again, we can see the number of inspectors on the papyros, we cannot find out how many people there are at all, how much an accountant day costs, how much a report costs, so we are all curious about things that are easily accessible and comparable to the previous period, say, in Anglo-Saxon territory. So, as I mentioned, we would also like to know how much a report costs, and, as I have already mentioned, how many reports have reached the court stage, how many final judgments have been made, whether performance tests have been carried out, if so, what type of reports they were, and, finally, the most important recurring question is the quantified benefit of the investigations. All these are issues that are available in a system that allows comparability. We have strong hopes that they could only be left out or, where appropriate, treated in a different sphere than they should have been, so they have not been included in the information material, and we are confident that, by the end of the debate, we will be able to get answers to these very important urgent questions. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-23-136	We now return to the normal speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Teleki.
u2015-06-23-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, Spokesperson Ritter Imre highlighted almost everything. I would like to focus a little more on one thing, and that is what the Vice-President said, that they are also trying to monitor the effectiveness of the state resources they provide in the control of the money. I think that in many cases I can see it, and I see that these effectivenesss are not sufficiently controlled, because, for example, if we look at the task-based support of nationalities, then I see that neither on the side of the money should be properly explained, nor on the side of spending, because - I will give you some examples - my main example is that task-based grants are awarded on the basis of a point system, but this is a point system that cannot really be enforced, because everyone tries to do this on the basis of self-certification, and then, in the context of a subjective case management, they tell me how many points have been awarded to the relevant national self-government, a given nationality self-government that is involved, and that, as has been mentioned, must be spent within a year. So your efficiency and your award, I think, is an important indication of how the SAO should do this better and more effectively, because I see today that it is not sufficiently well-lit on either side. So this is an important means of spending money. It has also been mentioned that, in recent years, the National Roma Municipality is likely to have suffered financial abuses that I think you should have seen at some level. My question is whether there has already been a picture there, a vision that could lay the foundation for what the National Roma Municipality is now facing, because it is important for everyone to see clearly and clearly in these matters, because every day when politicians and even professionals speak in it, no one else is as bad as the Roma community in Hungary, because they are increasingly saying that they do not need money, because they are spending this money for the wrong reasons, and there are not even those who abuse the opportunity they are given. I therefore think that the audit has a very important role to play, and I certainly welcome the fact that the SAO has checked so many minority self-governments. This does not mean that they happen there - because there are resources there that are quite small - things that are a cause for abuse, but it is absolutely important to be even more transparent here than spending money and public money anywhere else. Therefore, I consider it important. On the other hand, I think that, when it comes to the spending of minority self-governments, it is important to remember that the spending of minority self-governments is controlled by the local government or notary, so I think that in such a case, when the powers of supervision are delegated to the notary, it is very important to point out that in most cases it should be done through the notary that the spending of the minority self-government is appropriate and effective. For this reason, I believe that the SAO should also pay much more attention to the fact that cooperation should be much more characteristic, and that cooperation that is otherwise legally regulated should also be filled with content, because at the moment there are very many places, many municipalities, local governments and local authorities that do not have the effective points of cooperation with which they can work together with sufficient and appropriate emphasis. On account of this, the question arises many times in me, however, that the source that appears in the national governments, and in many cases we say that there have been 209 thousand forints in the last year, now this amount has increased to some 270 thousand forints, which is still not enough to really make a lot of it. It's an annual budget for a national government, I'd like to add, that's it, plus the task-based part. As a result, I think it would be very important that, if the effectiveness of spending is also observed, it should be looked at, monitored and the SAO should report - and this does not come out entirely from the report - how those resources can be used by a minority government where they receive an annual grant of HUF 209 thousand. I think that it is not possible to talk about efficiency, but it is much better to talk about - and this is already part of politics - that very often the municipality is confronted with the local government, precisely because many times they say that you have a national government, go to it, and they will be able to deal with various clever and difficult things, although there is no legislation, no financial resources, and therefore they cannot spend that money effectively because there is so little money involved. Therefore, I propose that the relationship between the municipalities and the national authorities should be strengthened, and its effectiveness should be increased, because it cannot function well at the moment, and not only because of the amount of resources, which is very small, but also because cooperation between municipal and ethnic authorities is becoming ever more flat. Therefore, I think that when it comes to utilisation, it is important to say that we need to move forward on this issue. In the case of national minority self-governments, too, in the first place, I think it is very important that the source also reaches those who are beneficiaries of the national minority self-government, that is, the population, even if they are otherwise paid for operating money, because many times with culture and linguistic preservation, we do not see this to be fulfilled. Therefore, I think that the national self-government has a key role to play in society once in order to better meet the resources they have received, and I can only say here that efficiency should be given more attention, and the other side is that the national self-government of nationality in settlements should, I think, in any case, provide professional assistance from the source it receives, and constantly refer, for example, to the Roma minority self-government, that they do not have enough resources to provide sufficient assistance to the minority self-government in the settlement. As a result, I think that the SAO also has an important role to play in this, whether it wishes to make statements that from the operational sources it receives, it is true how much it can turn to its own operation, to make it more effective for the minority self-governments in the settlements. And then we didn't talk about the county levels that have been established in the past, which doesn't have any role, by the way, that regional minority self-government system in the county, because we don't really talk about it, because we don't see its operational potential, its operational potential is completely limited. [[16.20]] Therefore, it has to be examined here as well, even more than in relation to the relationship between the local government and the local minority authorities, what is the situation, because it is likely that these county minority municipalities are inoperable, because county assemblies cannot support it, and at national level the norm is so small that they cannot by any means provide assistance or any other benefit that serves the affairs of nationalities, especially the role of language education or the presentation of cultural diversity. Therefore, I think that what you are doing is very important, and it is important for the nationalities, too, and I also say that I would like to point out once again, and I think it is important that so many national governments have been checked. I know very well that they are also present in civil society organisations to a similar extent, which I also consider to be important, because my other main argument is that not only spending money, as you said, Mr President, but also making use of it must be examined and prescribed remedies that can cure the disease so that a local government, a local government, can cooperate even more effectively. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-06-23-138	I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-06-23-139	Mr President, Dear House, We have just indicated our questions about the number of inspectors, which do not follow directly from the combined data. It should also be noted that last year the SAO reached 966 organisations, as opposed to 569 in 2013, which in itself is a welcome fact, so we all appreciate that we have managed to get to more places. However, it cannot be established from this aggregate how much its presence is in the service of the main control objectives. So, for example, we read that more than 60 percent of the audited persons are central budgetary bodies or local governments, most central budgetary bodies are affected by the closing audit, and 226 by number. We can't figure out what "touch" means. Obviously, professional terminology does not know any concept that an examination affects something. Here, important conclusions could be drawn from knowing how many audit-related so-called financial compliance checks have been carried out, what these investigations have covered exactly, so here the fact that they concern this area is how this should be interpreted. Here, too, the fact that this prospectus is rather a bit of a propaganda pamphlet rather than something with specifics, with performance measurements and indicators, but it is obvious that these issues can still be clarified at this debate stage. It is also important to know how many audit-related audits have been carried out, so financial compliance checks have been carried out, because this would be the SAO's main task, in principle, that we are talking about an annual due date. So it is very important to know how well both the requirements and the objective and subjective requirements in this respect have been met by the organisation, in addition to having to be recognised, it is a perfectly good direction in itself that the scope of control has been much wider than before. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[Adam Mirkóczki takes his place in the notary seat.]]
u2015-06-23-140	I ask Congressman István Józsa to maintain the normal or two minutes. [[Dr. István Józsa: Both, but now two minutes.]] I'll give you the floor in two minutes.
u2015-06-23-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Two minutes is, of course, the possibility of a debate. Here I would like to call on the State Audit Office to repeat the audit of the management of the Hungarian National Bank, because the ominous statement that some legal aid department had wrongly sued me for by Barnabás Futó concerned that their report on the investigation of the Hungarian National Bank was directed against András Simor, before György Matolcsy got there. Then, when Matolcsy, as a good mugger leader, sat at the head of the National Bank, he immediately looked at what was in the Treasury. He found a surplus of HUF 400-500 billion there, which, of course, is part of the Hungarian national wealth, because this plus was added as a result of the price loss suffered. As has been said from my fellow Member, he spent HUF 340 billion, HUF 200 billion on foundations that cannot be touched in life, and the Foundation Act states that the founder has nothing to do with the fund's capital transferred to the foundation, from then on it will be decided by a board of trustees, which has been set up in such a way that it will also not be possible to touch it. Or the other thing you could look at is that before György Matolcsy went there, his annual wage cost to the National Bank was around HUF 400 million, and now he beats 1 billion. I know that there has also been an increase in the number of employees, so the task of the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions, if not well, has been taken over by the Hungarian National Bank, so financial supervision, banking supervision also works there, but it is not certain that this should be a 2.5-fold increase. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Please check the management of the National Bank properly. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-23-142	I now give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-23-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I believe that personalism does not bring forward today's debate, nor does it make it more constructive, but because I have addressed it by name, I would like to react briefly. István Józsa's speech made it clear how well the Member listens to the clock, referring here to how well he listens to the length of his speech, but perhaps he would have been more fortunate, Mr President, if he had listened at least to what he said. In connection with the Member's speech, I was reminded of an old Hungarian saying: he drinks wine and preaches water, because when he spoke about the clean and transparent use of public funds, not least ethically, he did so by saying that it was the Member whose company, if I remember correctly, had a 42 percent ownership share that, no, in the time of socialist government, he had received an order worth HUF 6.6 billion from the otherwise state-owned Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Honourable Congressman, After that, talking about the clean and ethical use of public funds doesn't seem very credible to me. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-23-144	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman István Józsa has the floor.
u2015-06-23-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You were a very small child when I was a nuclear expert, so you should be ashamed of such a comment. We could discuss this on a professional basis, let's say, in nuclear surveillance. What you are saying is a distorted part of reality, if you think you should ask Deputy Prime Minister János Lázár, he is already aware of this question. And if you want to drink so much wine, then I'm gonna have your voice recorded in public recordings, play it here in Parliament, and then you're gonna have a vest that big, you know? ! That was published in the press, so I would say that who drinks wine and who preaches what, pay attention to the professional comments I made, and believe that my expertise in the field of nuclear power plant investments has saved the power plant 100 million forints, because, you know, the technical added value has decreased costs, and the poorly planned investment will increase costs, so I would ask for this respect. I respect your knowledge, so do you to discuss this with the experts first and then say such things. I would also like to commend President László Domokos on one of his speeches in Parliament and on the problems of the sovereign debt formula. President Domokos was of the opinion that the Hungarian sovereign debt rules are practically flawed and unfulfilled, and that this formula is not correct for the intended purpose, in as many economic situations as possible. One of the most important criticisms raised by the State Audit Office is that the Act on Hungary's economic stability shows shortcomings which also cast doubt on comparisons at conceptual level. [[16.30]] According to the Court of Auditors, there is also a question of constitutionality of debt rules. I suggest that, if this question arises, you should turn to the Constitutional Court and try to clarify these issues. President László Domokos also said in Parliament that the budgetary bodies also raised significant debts. This is an important issue only because, when planning the budget, it is not possible to plan the budget with a deficit or to commit beyond the budget allocation. In such a case, how would it be possible, in the course of budgetary implementation, for the State Audit Office to experience a massive debt build-up in each institution over and over again? We must think that this finding by the State Audit Office is correct, with these institutions either in terms of planning or in terms of funding. The President of the Court also believes that there is a lack of adequate guarantees for the implementation of the legal requirements. Mr Vice-President pointed out in his exposé that the SAO had an idea on how to move forward. Therefore, if there are no guarantees to enforce the legal requirements, the Public Finance Act plays a particularly important role, since the Hungarian budget balance must be guaranteed here. But unfortunately, this will not be fulfilled with sufficient rigour. The laws on which the 2016 budget is based are repealing sub-items containing part of the control powers, which would further weaken the effectiveness of the control activities of the managing bodies, whether the municipality or the Ministry are accountable, rather than introducing stricter and more detailed provisions in the public finances, thereby imposing an obligation for the management bodies to carry out a planned and regular monitoring of the budgetary plans if it leads to further imbalances in the individual budgetary bodies, institutions and, ultimately, to a weakening of the control possibilities of the general government as a whole. We must agree with the President of the Court of Auditors. During his audits, the SAO regularly experienced an exlex status, according to the President's report, that the organisation and operational rules of the budgetary bodies, institutions, followed the legislation in force in the rarest case, often because of the failure of the governing body, sometimes because of the failure of the head of the institution. Therefore, to eliminate this impossible situation, a deadline should be set for the managing body to check the organisational and operational regulations of state-owned companies, institutions, and their approval and acceptance, especially if we know that the organisational and operational regulations actually regulate the liability conditions within the organisation. I therefore propose that this objective be kept on the agenda by the State Audit Office, that it make concrete proposals in this regard and bring it to the House. It is also a legitimate proposal that the head of the budgetary body should have a personal responsibility, whether by law or by law, terminate his management mandate if the budget report of the budgetary body is not accepted by the managing body because it has not complied with the requirement for loss-free management and therefore does not comply with the legal requirements. In view of all of this, I believe that the operation of the State Audit Office contains a number of forward-looking signs. At the same time, if you are in a methodical modernisation, you should propose the above-mentioned organisational and operational regulations, these guarantee elements, and make the proposals on the basis of which the Hungarian Parliament, the supreme body of legislation, can make the laws according to which your comments will be collected, enforced, and thus the budget will improve its efficiency and efficiency. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-23-146	I now give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann.
u2015-06-23-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I feel a slight overstep in my fellow Member István Józsa's speech when he tried to give the Vice-President and the State Audit Office a task of what they should and should not do. I don't know if a Member of Parliament has a way or a chance to do that. Then I received a detailed and meaningful analysis of my last name with great serenity and joy. I think, honourable Member, this is not a very close point either, but I am glad that this makes you happy. I'll join you in your good cheer. We agree on one thing regarding your assessment of age, Congressman. I'm much younger than you. But that's it, and that's it. It's a situation, it's a state. I do not think that this would give you the right to enter into such a personal tone in connection with the discussion of a report on the operation of the State Audit Office. And if you think you've hit me hard with this recording, I'd like to make you aware that on the second day after the recording came out, as I have this recording, which, by the way, I have reasonable suspicion that you manipulated me, I've committed defamation and defamation to the competent authorities. This procedure has been in progress ever since. You know what the problem is, Congressman? That this recording could have cost me my election or my election. Soon, soon, I hope, there will be an approximately two-line apology from the press organ that has published this, and it will be settled. Unfortunately, you have recognised this very well and have tried to use it for political purposes, but the problem, my dear Member, is that at the moment - if you think you can join this game on the side of slanderers and defamators, I am happy to see you - I have been vetted in all respects in this investigation. And there is no reasonable doubt about the recording or my statements or my involvement. That's what you can explain to me, no matter how big of a nuclear science you've got. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-23-148	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to hold back the personal stuff and get to the point. I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa in two minutes.
u2015-06-23-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Parliament's operation and parliamentary debate are fundamental genres to make suggestions and comments on a report. What part of a report is highlighted by which representative highlights the sentences of the SAO President's statement, depending, of course, on the parities, the whereabouts. As opposition representatives, of course, I highlight the critical comments which, in my opinion, represent a direction for the development of the work of the State Audit Office and the legislation, which is also raised in the report or in the total of 233 published reports and in the summary as a problem. I think it is the other way around, so it is no wonder that a Member is trying to formulate a task for a body of Parliament, the State Audit Office, but it is just to be welcomed that someone is thinking about how to do this work more effectively. [[16.40]] I very much hope that the proposals made by the State Audit Office itself have been improved by the fact that the President of the State Audit Office has made a critical record in the debate on the laws on which the budget is founded, and he felt that his powers of control have been reduced, which would actually be detrimental to the audit work, and I have assured him of my support. This may not be good for the president of the SAO, but that's my opinion. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-23-150	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. I don't see a candidate. The joint general debate is therefore closed. It is now possible to close the report or the authors of the proposal for a decision. I will ask Mr. Tihamér Warvasovszky if he wishes to answer. Yes, he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor.
u2015-06-23-151	[[No microphones.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to thank you on behalf of all the employees of the State Audit Office for the valuable contributions, opinions, citations and findings that analysed the SAO's work and experience. [[They're putting a hand mike in front of him.]] I would particularly like to thank the ethnic advocate for the position and opinion of the minority committee. I would like to say to you that, of course, we will use these comments and suggestions. Let me respond to one or two things without the need for completeness. First of all, I would like to say that the exercise of ownership rights over state property is regulated annually by the State Audit Office, and in December 2014 we published our report on this, where we have made it clear, and we have also dealt with the issue of the national inventory. We will, of course, continue this year to monitor the exercise of ownership rights over state assets, the year 2014, and we will re-assess the state of the country's inventory as to how far the work under the Government's decision has progressed. About the follow-up, in general. As stated in the brochure, and I said in my introduction, we consider follow-up checks to be very important. At the time, the control of 62 cities was selected by representative sampling. This means that we have a proper picture of the entire municipal urban sector, the subsystem. That's why we thought follow-up was important. On the basis of the follow-up, it was found that the measures proposed and the measures submitted by the inspectors were taken by almost 100 percent. This is also due to the fact that the new Court of Auditors law has removed the possibility of verification without consequences. The State Audit Office, as I said, constantly strives to report not only the legal obligations of the Parliament in its annual accounts, but also to support the work of Parliament and all Members with its audit experience. We have adapted to the needs of users, to the comments of the representatives of the last few years, and therefore, for the first time this year, we have made recommendations to the Parliament for Members, which are clearly considered by the Members of Parliament, the Parliament, the Government, and this is why legislative amendments can be made that further strengthen the transparency, control and accountability of the use of public money, not least the regulation. Several Members have suggested where the objectives and findings of the audit are from this prospectus. I would like to tell you that obviously this information is not about telling you in detail what we have established at which inspection, because we have published 233 reports. But if you read our prospectus carefully, the reports we have published are clearly listed in Annex 1 and it is written out in which way you can look at them. And if you read a report, of course in its introduction there is why we have checked it, what is the purpose of the audit, what control methodology we have checked, what are the main findings we have made, and what are the main proposals we have made to the audited ones. I would like to say to you that the State Audit Office is constantly monitoring the work of the Parliament and, of course, we are also trying to adapt the activities of the State Audit Office to this. In the context of today's debate, we will also respond personally to the speeches, questions, suggestions, criticisms that have been proven for years. By the way, on the part of the State Audit Office, all comments, including the comments made today by the representative ladies and gentlemen, will be incorporated into our risk management system and will be used in the planning of audits. I ask you to continue to support and rely on the main financial and economic control body of Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-23-152	I am now going to ask Mr Dénes Galambos, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, if you would like to comment. It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The comment from the Economic Committee on the proposal for a decision is what I would like to respond to. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Vice-President of the Economic Committee, I am sorry that he is not here to hear what I am responding to his suggestion, but he can obviously learn it from the minutes, as I would like to refer to what is set out in the minutes. This is the meeting of the Economic Committee on 2 June 2015, at which the President of the State Audit Office, László Domokos, made an oral amendment to the information and report before us, the 2014 report on which Mr.Vice-President, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Vice-President of the Economic Committee, Member, myself and Csaba Tóth MSZP, also spoke. In this protocol, which you referred to, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, there is absolutely no reference to what you have just said, so I would like to reject the statements you made on the proposal for a resolution even in your absence. The other issue is that the material, which is the State Audit Office's prospectus, has been repeated twice as pamphlet, has been classified as a pamphlet, a propaganda material. We cannot agree with this either, as I have said myself as rapporteur for the committee and, as a speaker, Mihály Witzmann, the basic principles that were necessary and justified in relation to the prospectus and which have also assessed the prospectus. I reject the fact that such a classification is given to a proposal for a decision which partially complies with public law obligations, since in point 1 it makes the finding made by the auditor in its full acceptance statement annexed to the end of the prospectus that it shows a reliable and fair picture of the management of the State Audit Office; it has provided the report with such a clause. Compared to that, it's a pamphlet, I don't think it's justified. To point out that the reference to the '50s is funny for the rest of the proposal for a resolution. I believe that point 1 of the proposal for a decision, which I have just mentioned, establishes the legality of the operation, financially, in accounting terms and in management; and in point 2, the Economic Committee, as a designated committee, clearly made the findings for the future that it considered important. At this committee meeting, no other proposal on the proposal for a decision has been put forward, let alone in concrete terms. The dissemination of its content, such as integrity-based organizational culture, is, yes, I specifically highlighted this in my comment, a very important area. [[16.50]] After all, this is the municipalities, and I have pointed out that, in close coordination with government offices, it is a very serious task up to the level of local authorities, which must be maintained in the future. But the integrity, cooperation and task implementations that have begun have been achieved, as the six-monthly evaluations that we have made on this subject, together with the local authorities, I think that they justify the importance of all of this. In addition, I think that a proposal for a decision, if it does not have to contain any other mandatory elements, contains enough of what we have submitted to Parliament, so on behalf of the Economic Committee, I think that this is what I wanted to say in the context of the proposal. One more thing, it is no longer related to this, which is the proposal for a decision, but it is important to mention that Article 2 of the Statute of the State Court of Auditors. §2 of the basic act does not include the fact that MOL should be examined by the State Court of Auditors. The other issue is that if it receives support from the system and sub-scheme of public finances, it is necessary to carry out its control, but the fact that it does not cover economic entities is clearly clear from the articles of association. Thank you, that's all I wanted to say from the committee. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-23-154	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies 2014 will now be followed by a joint general debate on the proposal for a resolution by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and its adoption, submitted by the Judicial Committee, pending its conclusion. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. and the proposal for a decision H/4505. You can access it on the parliamentary IT network. The presentation is discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to László Székely, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the author of the report, who will give the speech about the pulpit.
u2015-06-23-155	Mr. Vice President, Honourable Members, Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the opportunity to take part in this detailed debate today, even in such a weak number, but I am honored. It's the year 2014 that we're talking about today. This 2014 is the first full year of my operation. If I consider the office to be a starting point for 20 years, I'd say it's an average year. It's an average year in which the office has been in a state of permanent transformation ever since I was elected. As Churchill once said, more and more things have to be changed to keep things the same. Unchangedness here means that there are about 5 to 7 thousand complaints per year to the staff of the Office, in which there are complaints of maladministration by the rights-seekers. All the staff of the Office are trying to remedy these cases with relatively high social satisfaction. This means the change in the life of the office, that we do not intend to allow it in the future. If you'll allow me, I'd like to give you some of the data that pretty much characterizes what about a hundred of my colleagues are doing in the office, doing a meaningful job at the office. In 2014, 5471 submissions were sent to the Office and almost exactly the same number of cases were completed, which is about a good indicator of the efficiency of administration. About 3 percent of these cases had to be transferred to other competent bodies; we closed one in five cases by resolving the problem in the meantime; 60 percent of complaints were rejected by raising awareness of the possibility of other enforcement; and 815 cases were investigated, which is about 15 percent of the submissions. Your best-known weapon, let's say, is an arsenal weapon for the Ombudsman to turn to the Constitutional Court and ask for abstract norm control of certain laws. This is of particular importance today because, according to the new Fundamental Law, this popular action no longer applies to all citizens regardless of their involvement, so in a sense it assessed the role of the Ombudsman. In fact, the office operates as a preliminary filter in this sense, and I appeal to the Constitutional Court if I take over the maladministration raised in the application for this, and I myself consider that the published law is against the law. Now, such an application 294 came to the office in 2014, and there were 62 complainants who specifically asked me to go to the Constitutional Court. Of these, we had to reject 53, and I accepted 9 complainants' arguments on three subjects and initiated a procedure for standard control before the Constitutional Court. I would add that the Constitutional Court's decision is pending in 11 cases, which will be expected in the near or distant future. It is also important from the toolbox and a new public-law solution is that the Commissioner can turn to the Curia if a municipal regulation is contrary to a higher level of legislation. In this year, which is now mentioned in the report, we have been forced to use this tool in 5 cases; quite effectively, I will only add this in brackets. It is also an important competence, in our power, to give an opinion on draft legislation and to initiate amendments to legislation. In 2014, 190 requests for such opinions were received by the Office, of which 50 were made substantive comments to the draft legislation. Interestingly, in relation to 2014, let me mention to you that the number of complaints is always falling significantly in electoral years, and this was the case in 2014. About 1,500 fewer complaints than in other normal years. We can only speculate on the reason for this. It may be that the expectations, so the electoral expectations, before a single election, are, let's say, imagining a level of local government, the complainants are trying to wait for the results of the elections, and they say that they will wait for the results of the elections; they may form a new municipal body, they may become a new mayor, and in light of that, they will decide whether they will seek redress locally or they will turn to the Commissioner. Well, if I may take up more of your time, then I would like to say that I have had to redeploy a quarter of my staff in the last year, in the sense that we have had to make friends with new growing circles - which I would like to say a few words about - and that the legislator has not provided sufficient extra labour and resources to do so. This also includes the fact that the Office would make the appearance of deputy Commissioners more prominent in the public's internal organisation, and a number of secretarial strengthening steps have also been taken. This therefore affected about a quarter of the staff, who are forced to work in new jobs and also to carry out tasks in the handling of traditional complaints. You know very well that as of 1 January 2014, the Office has also received the supervisory powers to handle the announcements of public interest and to deal with matters fairly. To do this, we had to create a computer base that had to be secured from our own existing assets, the essence of which is to provide a secret case management that is only accessible to those concerned. All employees had to go through national security checks. Well, over the past year, we have received 200 of these submissions, which we need to follow up on whether the investigation is conducted fairly in all respects. We were given an order of magnitude greater than that, and we only started to exercise it on the first day of 2015, but the preparation has been going on throughout 2014. This is the national prevention mechanism operated under the Additional Protocol to the UN Convention on Torture and Other Inhuman and Degrading Treatment and Punishment. It doesn't have to be scared, it's called OPCAT, it's not an exotic cat breed, it's just an abbreviation of this additional protocol, but the point is that we have to check 4,000 detention sites randomly and unannounced. We need to send 20-30 pages of reports on these in the scope and content of the international protocol. This is an extremely expensive test method, because we have to appear randomly and unexpectedly at the most diverse locations in the country. [[17.00]] Interviews should be conducted with the institution's maintainer, the caregivers, the inmates, the prisoners who are serving their prison sentences. Maybe if they were watching the press, there was a pretty big response to an OPCAT visit to a psychiatric facility in Debrecen in the press. In this regard, I would like to say that the law requires that we employ 11 full-time civil servants only for this task. For these employees, the gender ratio: the proportion of one sex may exceed the proportion of the other sex by one. We should employ two doctors, two psychologists and two lawyers. Here I would like to predict to the Honourable Parliament that this regulation is an insurmountable task, given that we are simply unable to employ a doctor as civil servants, because in order to become a civil servant, you have to give up your practice, and as a result we simply cannot find a man. So we may need to amend legislation here in the near future, because we simply cannot comply with the legal requirements. In addition, and now I will finish very quickly, as from 1 February the legislator has also given us legal oversight of national security controls, once again without any human and necessary cost implications. So I have to share with the existing staff so that the office can perform these tasks at the usual level. And - now the honourable representative of the State Audit Office has gone away - we are doing all this under conditions that our headquarters has been unorganized for decades, and as a result, we have been in serious reprimands from the State Audit Office, even though it is simply an unsolvable task for us to settle the property or management rights of this very complicated, vomited building, let us say. So, all in all, we are trying to meet the task required by the Fundamental Law and the Law on us in rather step-by-step circumstances. In view of this, I would ask you to look at the report to which we have always provided a DVD attachment in the past years, and now you can access your website with a QR code. So if you're looking for some reports, you can see what they're about. We have also been forced to do so because of cost savings. If I may add as a closing thought, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to rotate, to use this report, and to get an accurate impression of the Hungarian reality. The office is like a viewing tower, we can see the entire Hungarian administration, the authorities, the public services through complaints. Very instructive reading. I recommend it to sociologists and sociologists as mandatory reading. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you.
u2015-06-23-156	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr. György Rubovszky, President of the Judicial Committee, rapporteur for the motion for a decision. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Commissioner, I can inform the Parliament that it will listen to the Commissioner for the second time this year, because at the beginning of the year, the 2013 report, although a fraction, was heard and accepted. As the Commissioner said, the basic provisions are defined by our Fundamental Law, which actually describes the fundamental obligations of the Commissioner. This is Article 30 of the Fundamental Law. This defines the Commissioner and his deputies, whose role is also defined as the Deputy Commissioner for the interests of the future generation, and the election of the Deputy for the protection of the rights of nationalities is also a parliamentary power. Their term of office is six years and they are required to report annually to the Parliament. Act on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights 1 and 2 §2 of the Act defines the tasks which the Commissioner is obliged to perform in the course of his activities, and this actually determines that he or she is obliged to report to the Parliament on his or her procedural actions in these tasks and on the work of his or her alternates before the committee responsible and after the committee. With respect, on 22 April, the Committee heard the Commissioner and one of his deputies, and the other was unable to attend because of the appointment agreement. The vast majority of the committee considered the report acceptable. We have tabled this proposal for a resolution No 4505 and, with respect, I ask that the Honourable Parliament carry out the debate, and, after the debate has taken place, adopt the Parliamentary resolution proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-23-158	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No.]] Not yet. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mr János Fuzik, President of the Committee, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian.
u2015-06-23-159	Thank you for the floor. Vážen. Pan predseda! Vážené Národné zhromaždenie! Mr Vážen- pan ombudsman, vážení zástupcovia a spolupracovníci! Pozdravujem Vás vo svojom slovenskom materinskom jazyku v mene parlamentného V.boru pre národnosti v Ma. Arsku a prájem úspesné rokovanie! Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Ombudsperson, Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I welcome you in my Slovak mother tongue and wish you an effective discussion. I have a dream - with these words he began his famous speech Martin Luther King on August 28, 1963 at the Lincoln Monument in Washington. I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of former slaves and former slave owners will be able to sit down at the table of the brotherhood. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So said the first sentence of the legendary American Civil Rights Fighter and Martyr's best-known speech, which I certainly did not come up with by accident with a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies in 2014. I - as the Slovak minority advocate of the National Assembly - have not a dream, but a memory, which, of course, looks more like a dream. My memory relates to the same hall, the hall of the House of Parliament's Lower House, where, in the last year of the last millennium, in mid-1999, the Parliament's plenary also heard the report of its ombudsmen. The plural is not a slip of the tongue, three independent parliamentary Commissioners have referred to this House: the Commissioner for Civil Rights, National and Ethnic Minority Rights and Data Protection. I myself, as first-time president of the Slovak national minority self-government, perhaps for the first time I followed the plenary session of the Parliament from the box reserved for us, which took place in a full house, in the crossfire of cameras and cameras, in a medial prime time, since it was a festive meeting, the Parliament listened to the reports of its own human rights commissioners. Yes, it is a memory today, but I hope, in the future, that it is not a dream, because the vast, large, large 300-page account of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the two deputies of Parliament before us deserves the special attention of this House. The fundamental rights protection activities of the Ombudsman, his deputies and colleagues are a fundamental pillar of our existence as a rule of law. This includes activities related to the protection of children's rights, the interests of future generations, the rights of nationalities living in Hungary and the rights of the most vulnerable social groups, especially persons with disabilities. [[17.10]] With this work and its results - as the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights László Székely writes in the greeting of the reader of the book of accounts - they want to keep a mirror for society, the sharper, more contouring, realistic mirror. Anyone who looks into it and may be shocked by the sight, should not condemn the mirror, but settle his own features. The report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies contains a good number of points of order, since in 2014 only the number of complaints concerning nationality law was close to 200, not to mention other areas of fundamental rights and investigations. In recognition of the importance of preserving natural resources and cultural heritage, and of the activities of Deputy Ombudsman Marcel Szabó, advocate for future generations in this area, I would like to emphasise the protection of nationality rights. In fact, the first full year of 2014 was Mrs Sándor Szalayné Erzsébet, who was elected for the first time as Deputy Commissioner for the protection of the rights of nationalities. In his report, he explained in detail the specific situation in which he could carry out various tasks in connection with the powers of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights or independently. The latter, i.e. initiatives within a separate margin, are mainly proposing, monitoring, evaluating and raising awareness, i.e. contributing types of instruments. It makes it obvious that the Deputy Commissioner has only a fraction of the Ombudsman's potential. While, under the Fundamental Law, the Ombudsman is entitled and obliged to investigate all irregularities related to fundamental rights and to initiate the necessary measures, the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of Nationality Rights did not receive from the Fundamental Law any powers of investigation or measure. Thus, it appears that the mirror held for the Ombudsman's institution is also showing a great deal of legal order. At its meeting on 5 June 2014, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary established its position as a committee related to the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates. Erzsébet Szalayné Sándor, Deputy Commissioner for Nationality, said this on behalf of Marcel Szabó's colleague, and I quote: "There is a working relationship based on trust in the office that allows for a professionally sound and open work, and which certainly also has a positive impact on the working mood and attitude of colleagues working in the office. This is a guarantee that we can do decent professional work. At our committee meeting, however, it was said that, despite the positive but still possible human and co-worker relations, the institution of the independent nationality ombudsman must be restored in order to ensure legal certainty and respect for nationalities in Hungary. 2014 was also a year of elections for nationalities. In relation to the election of the representatives of the minority self-government, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputy for nationality were concerned about the inclusion of census data in the electoral system, since their voluntary nature excluded the exact picture of the number of ethnic populations in a given settlement. The rules on conflicts of interest of representatives of national self-governments are also considered to be incomplete, contradictory and unjustified, mainly affecting minority communities. It has also been pointed out that the false candidacy declaration on the language of nationality still has no legal consequences. During the 2014 parliamentary elections, the ethnic communities of Hungary had the first opportunity to get their representative into the National Assembly. Because of the high quota of about 22,000 votes, this was only a principle option for the majority of nationalities, and in the end it remained so for all of them. In this way, 13 ethnic advocates have entered the Parliament, who, as the deputy commissioner for nationality, cannot exercise the most important rights of Members. It does not have the right to vote at Parliament's meetings and may speak in plenary only if the House Committee considers that the item concerns the rights or interests of nationalities. However, the so-called nationality item has no legislative content. Nevertheless, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality welcomed the new institution of nationality advocates and assured them of their effective support. As chairman of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I can testify that an effective working relationship is promising. At our committee meetings, we regularly attend the staff of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, we have met the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality on several occasions, and we have also informed each other about our work plans. The Deputy Commissioner for Nationality took part in the reporting year by two professional trips with his colleagues in Békés and Baranya county. Differentiated attention was paid to the relationship system of local and national authorities, the functioning of civil society organisations. They have been informed of the activities of churches in the area of nationality, which has also been investigated in a comprehensive manner. At the same time, the analysis of the state of secondary education in nationalities has been completed, the findings of which give serious professional help, but also more urgent work to be done for the education government, the national authorities and our parliamentary minority committee. A joint report by the Commissioner and his deputy found that education in high-school ethnic education has a number of problems: it does not have a suitable replacement base; it does not provide a stable basis for the education of ethnic teachers, its physical conditions are incomplete; in many cases it has a basic function, not the right to education and language, but the teaching of foreign languages. In general, ethnic public education also shows a similar picture. Here, consideration should also be given to the rethinking of the organisation and functioning of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre from a national point of view. By changing the legislative environment, the right of agreement between the national minority authorities has virtually ceased in relation to both the names of directors and the institutions. The situation is most alarming in the area of Roma ethnic education, where the results of competence measurements are consistently and explicitly weak. The institutions are not able to adequately compensate for the social and social fallout of pupils with multiple disadvantages. The Commissioner and his deputy urge a comprehensive national authority and related independent sociological study of education to identify the real situation. In addition to the education issues, the complainant referred to earlier, which concerned nearly two hundred ethnic rights, the Ombudsman listed the following areas. They were submissions on social care, child rights, housing problems, labour market discrimination, police measures. It is also apparent from the types of complaints that citizens with the highest Roma nationality have turned to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Nationality. To sum up, the protector of national minority rights has declared in his report his mission:. I sincerely believe and on the basis of my professional conviction that the survival and prosperity of our ethnic communities from the legislator to the law enforcement of the law is for the benefit of all actors, including the public as a whole. [[17.20]] Since historical times, our ethnic communities, which are part of Hungarian society, have to be treated in an integrated way in all their lives, both for better and for worse. Even if they live their daily lives undisturbed and consciously experience their nationality, but also when their daily lives are in distress, with problems and burdens, or because of their nationality, they need the support and protection of others, so they need to act as Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of Nationality Rights. So far, the quote. So it seems that not only on the red hills of Georgia, but also in the villages and cities of Hungary, we will have to sit down at the table of the brotherhood. Thank you to those who are working on this, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, his alternates and colleagues. I recommend to this House, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, a report on their activities in 2014 and a proposal for a decision of the Judicial Committee on its adoption. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-23-160	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-23-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Commissioner, Dear Parliament, Please allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin by expressing my appreciation for the proposal for a parliamentary decision adopting a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates. Thanks to the accreditation procedure conducted in spring 2011 by the United Nations Committee on Coordination of National Human Rights Institutions, the Parliamentary Commissioner for Civil Rights and, as of January 1, 2012, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in Hungary guarded the protection of fundamental rights as a human rights institution in status B. In the summer of 2013, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights asked the Accreditation Sub-Committee of the ICC to carry out the A status reaccreditation procedure to recognise the institution's full compliance with the so-called Paris principles. At its meeting in Geneva between 27 and 31 October 2014, the International Coordination Committee of the National Human Rights Institutions proposed the granting of status A, which the Member States raised no objections to. In this way, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, with full voting rights, can play an active role in the future at the meeting of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the United Nations, the ICC and its regional organisations and subcommittees, in accordance with the principles of Paris, for independent and expert supervision of compliance and enforcement of fundamental rights in Hungary. I assume it is also due to this fact that the Judicial Committee unanimously supported the adoption of the report. In my opinion, this kind of rise in the level also proves that the functioning of the Office in a new structure enshrined in the Fundamental Law was not a setback in the functioning of the institution, whether it is the protection of human rights or efficiency, but, on the contrary, an internationally recognised body. As the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights reports show, the number of complaints decreased in 2014 compared to previous years, but the Office's role was not reduced. As an example, the ombudsman's office has issued a preliminary opinion on a total of 50 pieces of legislation, the effectiveness and improvement of which we have often seen in the walls of this House. The institution's new task is to carry out the electronic processing of data reporting in the public interest as of 1 January 2014, thus ensuring the anonymity of the notifiers. So far - and we hope for the future - the office has done this without error. With regard to the new tasks, I would like to point out that Parliament adopted on 24 October 2011 Article CXLIII of 2011 on the publication of the optional UN Convention Protocol. Law, namely OPCAT, which has already been mentioned, to ensure that the prohibition of torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading punishment or treatment is put into practice. The Protocol established a system in which independent international and national bodies regularly visit locations where people deprived of their freedom reside. The system established by the Protocol is based on the prevention subcommittee of 25 independent experts working alongside the UN and on the national preventive mechanism operated by the Member States. In view of the brutal police actions taken in 2006 under the Gyurcsány government, it is particularly important for us that OPCAT's said mechanism works well in Hungary, as we believe that this type of law enforcement will never happen again in Hungary. Of course, I think it is important that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputy offices continue to perform their classic tasks in addition to the new challenges, if you will. In 2014, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights continued to pay particular attention to the five priority areas of inquiry, such as children's rights, nationality rights, the protection of a healthy environment, persons with disabilities and the protection of the rights of other most vulnerable groups, in line with the relevant provision and spirit of the Ombudsman's Law. Environmental protection and the enforcement of the rights of nationalities are so pronounced that one deputy is responsible for these areas. I consider it important that, in addition to examining the fundamental rights of individual cases, the Office also investigates public interest. An excellent example of what has been said in the area of children's rights is the investigation launched in the framework of the 2003 child rights project, which focused on children's right to a healthy environment. In this context, the Commissioner reviewed the environmental health issue of food, the functioning of the official food chain surveillance and the guarantee elements for the supply of safe food to consumers, in particular to children, as a consumer group to be particularly protected. In the field of the enforcement and protection of the rights of the child, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights continued in 2014 to fulfil his multifaceted and complex tasks, at the same time using reactive investigative tools based on complaints, as well as comprehensive, systemic and pro-active rights protection tools to identify and prevent concerns. Each time in his reports he tried to draw attention to the importance of Hungarian constitutional and legal guarantees as well as international human rights requirements. From the issues of the operation of the child protection warning system to the introduction of the legal institution of child protection guardians, to the system of child-friendly justice and victim support, he wanted to take and took steps towards a constructive solution to the problems. Among the rights of nationalities, it is worth highlighting the inquiries launched on the basis of the submissions of the national authorities. These have shown that, despite decades of operational experience, there are problems of cooperation which may sometimes hinder the enforcement of national minority rights at local level. [[17 .30]] In recent years, legislation on national minority rights has been amended on several occasions, helping to ensure the legal guarantees and conditions for enforcement necessary for the cooperation of local and national authorities. The basic condition for the prevention and resolution of conflicts is the clear, detailed local recording of the conditions and circumstances of cooperation. However, the test experience draws attention to the fact that the most detailed legislation cannot replace the bona fide, open attitude and cooperation of the local government in order to ensure that the national minority self-government is able to legally and closely work with the local government to protect and represent the interests of local ethnic residents and to enforce the rights of nationality as fully as possible. In addition to the proposals for resolving specific issues, investigation reports on the interests of future generations often include measures of greater interest to the greater community, such as waste management or the protection of landscape heritage. With regard to the protection of the most vulnerable groups, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights notes that the capacity of the recipient can make a significant contribution to the objective pursued. That statement was also true to my heart. I believe that the 2014 report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has also confirmed that we in Parliament must continue to show our reception skills in the future for his, his deputies and the work of the Office, and that we must pursue further cooperation more openly. That is why I ask that my fellow Members support the adoption of the report and the proposal for a decision on it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-23-162	I now give the floor to László Teleki, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-06-23-163	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Commissioner, The Hungarian Socialist Party wishes to support the report that we can see in front of us, also because it contains a lot of useful information that we must use in the future. Yet a strange moment is today when we are discussing this report, because we were voting this morning on the 2016 budget, which is interestingly not in sync with what we see in the report, and which is in the report what the government should do to change the main priorities that are included in the report; for example, the rights of children, the rights of nationalities, the protection of a healthy environment, the rights of people with disabilities, the rights of the most vulnerable groups. About 300 pages of this report discuss these major priorities, and when the budget was adopted today and I thought that this item would then be on the agenda, I deliberately and consciously looked at what was missing from the budget. Let me give you some numbers and important priorities. It is absolutely important to point out that, with regard to the rights of nationalities - which belongs to my field of expertise - I have mentioned several times, either in the Commission's report at the hearing or within Parliament, that there is something wrong. This report also points out that health programmes are incomplete, they do not reach everywhere they should be, and we do not see that they could or would have wanted to provide additional resources for the health programme, because I do not see that screening, prevention, especially in disadvantaged settlements, especially in disadvantaged small towns, could address this issue from the budget for 2016. Since we are discussing the 2014 report, there has been a year to really prepare the government to address this issue, but I do not see that. And that's just one priority in health care. But if we look at children's rights or employment, we also see very big shortcomings there, namely that the government has not thought about taking this report seriously, even though it is still voting, and they are asking us to vote and we support the report itself. But it does not include, for example, what I submitted to Parliament in my amendment to start the government's closure of the Gypsy settlements, because this programme was completed in 2010. I would like to note that today there are 550 Gypsy colonies in Hungary, affecting more than 100,000 people. Of course, as opposition representatives, they did not accept my amendment, which I regret very much, because the priority that you have described in the report will be left behind again, and in the next year's report, they will once again describe that these and these points have not been implemented again, even if in 2014 there are already visible changes in the report and a shift, let us say, in this regard of the Roma issue. On the other hand, I see, for my part, that this government has been in constant debt since 2010. But as I said at the meeting of the Judicial Committee, the Hungarian Socialist Party Government also has a debt in this case, so it is not possible to make a modest statement in this. Since the change of regime, every government has a debt in whether or not Gypsy settlements are being liquidated. What János Fuzik said about how vulnerable education is to the Roma is primarily due to the fact that people living in Gypsies do not have an opportunity to break out, and this report points to this issue, but the government does not address it. Then how will the other goals of life be set and marked? Nothing but relief for the people who are in this situation. I think the government doesn't really think that this is his intention and that is his purpose, because if he had supported my amendment or himself realized that these gypsy settlements had to be abolished, we wouldn't be here today, but we would be able to deal with a specific issue as to how many gypsy settlements that my amendment contained. By the way, I asked for a billion forints - which is not a large sum in the entire country's budget - to do something about it. So I would like to point out that neither the right to health nor citizens' rights can be maintained, neither the employment rights nor the rights to health can really be respected, and we are talking about over 100,000 people. And there's a list of rights that can't be respected here. Therefore, I think it can be said that equal access to education is not guaranteed in the areas we are talking about. As a result, it is important for the government to see what content the report contains and to assign to it the resources, the instruments that we consider to be important. But if I go further and see in the report how the system of electoral rights of national governments has been respected, I also have great concerns there, because they are linked to the 2011 census with the registration of minority self-governments, which is simply incomprehensible to me, but I think that for a lot of people, why they touched those census data in 2014, because it was only there to create a minority self-government, and it doesn't matter whether it belongs to Roma or to any 13 ethnicities, where 30 people declared themselves to be a national minority in a settlement. And that wasn't until 2013-14. As a result, this certainly raises concerns, because it cannot be that we are subsequently adopting a law that points back to what numbers should be taken into account, and thus in many places, especially with the Roma, they could not create minority self-governments because they had touched these numbers. I think that this is certainly a concern, and not only for me, but also for those who are in and were in that situation, that they could not create their nationality self-government. It's the government's responsibility. Are you sure you have the protection of interests at this level in every settlement? I'm saying no, because there wasn't enough to see that these census records were bound to the electoral law. [[17.40]] Therefore, in this regard, I think that the government must and should do what is absolutely necessary. Secondly, the role of civilian control is also greatly impaired. Let us consider that the role of civilian control is important in my values, because the local government and the government are often taken over by civilians, although there were financial cuts that could not be properly addressed by civilians. I would just like to say two numbers: Around 2006-2007, in 2008, civilians managed from HUF 7 to 7.2 billion in the National Civil Fund Programme, and now they farm from 4.2 to 4.6 billion, and there are more civilians than they used to. As a result, I see and sense that the role of civilian control is not important to the government, because if it were important that the jobs that have otherwise been carried out by any helper network, any legal protection network or any other civil society organisation category, I think that the role of civilian control has been greatly violated by the government, and otherwise its role, because it does not provide the financial conditions that would be important in the life of civil society organisations. However, it is also true for national governments that they would like to see a product from HUF 209 thousand - and I said this in the SAO report - which is given in their operating, one-year operating budget to achieve visible results. Not only because of the amount, but also because of what the report mentions, that the relationship between the local government and the local authorities is not cloudy in many cases, therefore it is also visible in part, and the report also covers it, but also the practical experience is that this regulation must be rethinked in any case, because I use this word completely: the relationship between the local government and the minority authorities is flattened. Therefore, it may be written in perfect and large letters as to what kind of cooperation agreement they have, but its contents are largely incomplete, and it is not only a problem that the contents are incomplete, that they are not filled with content, but also because we do not see how Roma young people are led out of the trap in which they are, let us say, in this case, and it does not lead adults out of the employment problem in which they are. As a result, the funding of minority self-governments is, if you will, catastrophic, just as the source of civil society organisations is catastrophic. As a result, there would have been a lot to do, I think, because if we had talked about 2014 and discussed the 16th budget today, then there would have been a hell of a lot of things that could have been done to help the Ombudsman's work, the Commissioner's work and the work of his staff, so that they could carry out tasks much more effectively in the next period, because I suspect and believe that in the following year and in the following years they can only describe the situation as stagnating and we will not see much improvement in these situations. There is much more to be said about other areas, the situation of people with disabilities or the situation of children at risk, which will affect the role of the municipalities here again in the summer holiday, or the role of the KLIK right now, how they can reduce child hunger at some level, because I do not see it; despite the fact that we can see the resources they say on the part of the government, but we hope that during the summer we will not meet children and groups of children who cannot eat because they do not go to school because of the summer break. As a result, however, we do not see the concept, I do not see at least the concept that would underpin the fact that all children will receive warm food one day during the summer holiday. I think this is also a very important phenomenon of the report on how much child rights are respected in Hungary. And here, too, if I could say a number: there are nearly 500,000 children starving now, so there is a responsibility again for the government, what it would like to do in this matter, and what is the example and pattern on which it would like to start to eliminate these things, and no child should starve in this country, because I think that when there are different other issues - and I do not want to mention what - there are sources, I think that we should turn the values and order: first we should give resources where there is hunger, and then we should make constructions that, I think, can only be used for a narrow intellectual layer, and not for many people. Therefore, I agree with and agree with many of the opinions described in the report by the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, which is why we want to support the work of the Commissioner and his colleagues. However, we would also like to indicate that we are aware of shortcomings which the government is not taking into account in relation to the report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of MSZP and spokespersons.]]
u2015-06-23-164	I now give the floor to György Rubovszky, on behalf of the KDNP, who is now speaking not as rapporteur, but as lead speaker.
u2015-06-23-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Commissioner, Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, As a rapporteur and as a KDNP representative, I can only say the same thing: the report was prepared in the spirit of the Fundamental Law, in accordance with the law, the Commissioner submitted it on time, at the hearing before the committee he responded to the questions asked, there I voted in favour of the adoption, and here I am doing it again. And I am asking this House to accept the Commissioner's report, taking into account the support of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the spokespersons.]]
u2015-06-23-166	I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-23-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Honourable Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners and Colleagues! Indeed, it is not easy for you to do, and indeed, at times you have to decide on difficult matters. I very much liked the Commissioner's comment or comment - to try to quote it literally - that it might be good to make these reports mandatory for sociologists and sociologists to read, because they would understand and learn a lot from what is happening in Hungarian society, and that would be good. Indeed, this is true and they play a very important role. I have already had the opportunity to meet with colleagues from Spain and Sweden in my work, who in their opinion pointed out that the Commissioners of fundamental rights have broad rights in Hungary, that Hungarian legislation adequately ensures this activity, and that they were very appreciative about the work of Hungarian colleagues. The only other thought that might make your work difficult in this case is that somewhere you, as you play a role or are in series, encounter phenomena that investigate possible maladministration in the work of government, government or state institutions, so obviously your activities are in many cases either a criticism of the government, or a criticism of the current government or criticism of local government leadership, and it is very important to examine whether this counterweight is sufficiently displayed and this is the appropriate criticism in these cases, or not. That is why they are in a difficult situation, because, on the one hand, because it is parliamentary competence to appoint leaders, they must try to meet this requirement somewhere, and on the other hand, they must also comply with the statutory obligations, and I acknowledge that this is indeed not an easy task. And then let us turn to this report in particular, what we find in it, what significant investigations have been carried out that are worth talking about here at the Parliament level. [[17.50]] If we look at the debates that took place in previous judicial committees, I have seen, for example, in relation to 2013 - in which the report was still to be made in 2015, so it took place this year, and this was not an examination of a whole year, but of a small fraction of a year - that the good fellow Members in their comments raised, for example, the fact that they did not meet with the lack of scrutiny of abuses in elections and the lack of respect for civil rights. At the time, the chairman of the Justice Committee said that there was no choice that year, so obviously they couldn't investigate it. But now, in 2014, there was an election, and I was pleased to see that the report included, when I read your list of contents, what experience they had in the parliamentary and local elections in 2014, and in this regard I saw that what I was looking for in it, what I really wanted to see in it, they were not in it. Obviously, what was good about elections, what was a positive change, the election of national minority advocates, the change of national representation, the change of national minority self-governments, so these positive things have been highlighted, and the negative things that we have experienced, which were raised by my fellow political groups in the Committee on Justice at the time, and the essence of which was, in fact, when institutionalised to carry certain social groups or ethnic groups, are somehow abused by those who play a role in this and cannot exercise their fundamental right of choice, because, where appropriate, they decided for money or some influence on how they would vote. In this case, we believe that there is a serious violation of the fundamental rights of these people, and this would also have been worth the investigation, so that, if this was already the case, we should also examine whether there have actually been violations of fundamental rights or there have been no violations of fundamental rights. We have seen nothing in this direction, we have seen nothing in relation to the elections in 2014. Education is a very important issue. I was very curious about how this would be captured, and most of all, ethnic education was highlighted, which was examined. Here, Mr Fuzik has already explained the experiences that have been found and brought up as a deficiency in ethnic education, such as the problem of re-education and training of teachers, you have raised the lack of public knowledge in relation to Roma education, you have found this to be of very low quality, and you recommend teaching Romological knowledge in all pedagogical training institutions, given the increasing number of Roma children in the public education system, and I quote, to the increase in the number of Roma children in the public education system. So these were, or have been, examined, in this case always examine disadvantaged, cumulative disadvantaged students, which, by the way, is entirely justified, but somewhere this report seems a bit unilateral. Obviously, it also comes from your responsibilities, but we do not find those problems if we approach the issue of integrated education or non-integrated education from the other side, I have seen that the report has avoided this slippery subject quite well enough, or at least I have not seen that they have actually taken a stand in this, although it is not certain that it is the task of this report to take a position on this. But we also need to see the other side where the right of good learners to education arises, whether, in order to achieve the framework of integrated education, we can take away the right from students to receive an appropriate level of education under appropriate conditions and under appropriate discipline, so the question also arises whether their rights, their fundamental rights, are not violated. I wanted to know if the problems with textbooks in the field of education that were repeatedly published in the last year and in the previous year about textbook publishing would be included. I found a paragraph on this problem, which brought up in particular the textbook problem in three lines, nothing more, although this is of much greater importance. After all, the rules that have been introduced here today, and in which we see that textbook packages are incredibly cheap for children, almost everyone has access to this textbook package for free, the layer is growing, we are constantly hearing this, and what do we experience? We find that children do not have a series of textbooks in September, but even in October, December. Because there's a tight frame to fit into, a lot of subjects don't even get a book - you have to read it on the Internet, print out the books on paper pages that the teacher is about to give them. What's wrong with that? Of course, the children's right to education will be fundamentally damaged, and I think that it would have been worth it, too, that they should be described, that they should also be revealed. However, there is only one thought about what has been highlighted here: the problem of the name of the institutions included in the KLIK. I think that the two things are not in the same weight category as what we call the educational institution, whether there has actually been social consultation or consultation with civil society organisations, what should be the new name of that organisation or institution; the question of textbooks is much more important whether they actually have access to it and whether children have access to appropriate textbooks. This is more important. But I saw the same problem with health. I found the part that dealt with health problems very short, and what I saw there, and what was the problem, in the findings, is that the reduction of patient rights complaints can be observed, and the needle exchange programme is highlighted, and the issue of compulsory vaccination is raised. So they dealt with them, even though I think it would have been more important to analyse the waiting lists, how long to wait, if any, months or a year and a half. Has the right to health not been undermined by these Hungarian citizens who want to use the Hungarian health system, or by those who may have decided their life, had to wait 6-8 months for their future? I would have expected the appearance of these in this report, which I also could not find. I also found interesting things to explore the causes of poverty. In this regard, it is clearly stressed that poverty is the primary concern of Roma, and statistics are also mentioned here, that there is now virtually a rising poverty rate in Hungary, and that almost one third of the country, or even one third, is in this category, and that most of this is of Gypsy origin. In this regard, I found interesting reasons why the issue of Roma poverty is reflected in the report: disadvantages, discrimination due to their origins, and I quote literally: the phenomenon of institutional discrimination. It is likely that Roma-born complainants are constantly confronted with this, social prejudice in everyday practice, an exclusional attitude to the Roma population. So these are listed as the causes of gypsy poverty, when, I think, in principle, this is due to much more diverse and much deeper roots, and it is not certain that the findings that you have described in this report are indeed the cause of Roma poverty. Obviously, this would be worth a sociological study, or even a debate day, to explore the causes of this, but I'm not sure that's exactly what's going on in your program. [[18.00]] That is why we are considering whether this report is acceptable to us. Then another question that came up here, and the Commissioner mentioned it, and this was how often they turn to the Constitutional Court. Yes, you mentioned this problem, which was raised during the previous term, because we know that anyone could have contacted the Constitutional Court earlier because of a review of the law, and that every Member of Parliament had this opportunity. The new legislative change is not so new, as it is four years old, it has taken away the possibility from citizens, and it has also taken away the possibility from Members of Parliament, and practically one quarter of Parliament is required to initiate such a review. That means 50 people at the moment. Only one faction can do this, and this is the Fidesz faction, which has so many people here in Parliament. So whoever plays the decisive role in the legislation, who can practically make the laws by the majority, can only turn to the Constitutional Court for the purpose of reviewing its own laws. And that is where your role has grown to take on the cases that citizens or Members would otherwise submit. I found the number of those cases extremely small, and you have also said in numerical terms here, Commissioner, how many of these were; this was very little, I think. Here, the office has a huge responsibility to be more decisive in representing people, citizens in this direction. And since I see my time is up, thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-23-168	I now give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-06-23-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that the LMP also appreciates the work done by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates. We are aware that the rights of the most deprived groups, which for some reason are defenceless, to be protected more strongly, are being treated as a priority and that they are trying beyond their power to fulfil their obligations under law. The report is more than 300 pages, and this is a sign of the enormous work done by the Ombudsman's office. Since there are obviously no time limits for all areas, so I myself, we also highlight a few topics. First, in 2014, the Ombudsman examined the activities and possible omissions of members of the child protection signalling system in relation to the case of severely abused children. We know about the child abuse in Szentmiklós or the Sásd tragedy. The Ombudsman found that the bodies and authorities associated with children, responsible for their protection and duty, in particular healthcare providers, educators, child welfare services and guardianship, could not eliminate the risk to children. The Commissioner recommended that the Minister of Human Resources take steps to increase the effectiveness of the cooperation of child protection signalling members, to ensure that methodological materials and guidance on the prevention, detection and treatment of child sexual abuse are disseminated as widely as possible to child protection signalling members, and to organise training and further training in this field. Although the Ministry has prepared a guide for the operation of the child protection detection and signalling system, the sector-neutral principles and methodology to identify and eliminate child abuse, but has not taken any other measures to strengthen the operation of the child protection signalling system to this day. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Although it was recently said by Károly Czibere that the child protection warning system should be strengthened so that professionals can move on time if vulnerable or abused young people are in their sights, but no action has been taken so far. There has been no reduction in the heavy burden on child protection workers, the shortage of professionals and the financial situation of workers. There is still no sanction for non-compliance with the indications or delay of the measures and, if internal investigations are carried out, no liability shall be imposed. There is, therefore, a serious failure of the government in this area, and the strengthening of the signalling system cannot be postponed. I would like to mention public employment investigations. The continued examination and monitoring of the situation of public workers was one of the priorities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in 2014. Winter public employment started in the year of inspection, which included partly work and partly training programmes. In 2014, two comprehensive ombudsman inquiries were launched in connection with the implementation of the Winter Public Employment Programme. The Commissioner noted that due to the short period of time available to prepare for the public employment programme, the agencies were unable to provide information on the programme to public workers. So they had to take on community service and training without knowing what work they would have to do. In addition, at the time of the start of the training, the necessary curriculum or training equipment was not available. In fact, teachers did not even have a valid contract at the time of starting education. The LMP also drew the Ombudsman's attention to this and asked him to examine it. The Ombudsman's inquiry has confirmed us. It is important to say about the Winter Public Works Programme that it was a campaign-like expansion of the public work programme before the elections, a waste of 24 billion EU funds. The interests of public workers have not been considered in the least, and have not been examined in advance, which training is needed, even though, in some areas, training should have taken the most account of individual aspects. What shows more than anything is that it was only part of the government's election campaign, that there was no continuation of this programme, no further training was built on it. Thus, the government was not motivated by the introduction of public workers into the primary labour market, or by the promotion of their location, and, to this day, such an intention is still unfettered in action on public work. In fact, I have brought these examples here because we think it would be necessary for the Government to look much more closely at the results of the Ombudsman's investigation and the Commission's proposals. And what we consider very, very important is that these tests and test results and proposals have legal consequences. Finally, I would like to say a few more words about environmental protection, but not primarily about the part that has been examined and the results of the various complaints, for example in the field of noise, waste and nature protection, but I would like to give some thought to what the Ombudsman's deputies have done, more precisely: the future generation Ombudsman And that cooperation with environmental civilians is exemplary, I think. It would also be an example for the government to meet, consult, and even go further with environmental, nature conservation civil society organisations from time to time, to organise forums and conferences that are not only designed to provide insights in a given topic, but also sometimes a form of reconciliation of interests. However, I would like to highlight three issues, which are very close to me. One is sustainable development, the other is biodiversity and one of today's greatest challenges is climate change. In the context of sustainable development, a number of forums have also been organised jointly by you, together with civilians, with the competent ministry, and have indeed been very, very meaningful discussions. Climate change, I think, is another very important issue, especially when, at the end of the year, in December in Paris, there is a climate summit that will ultimately affect our future, I can almost say that it will decide. [[18.10]] Today, an article was published on the Index about the threat of climate change to the lives of tens of thousands of people in the United States. Here, of course, we will have to ask how this is done. To conclude, it relates to biodiversity here, and I would also like to thank you for the activity that you have done and acted to protect national parks. I very much hope that they will continue to work in this area in this way, so decisively in the future. The LMP will support the adoption of your report. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-23-170	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the Government, who has the right to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-23-171	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I, too, would like to begin by thanking the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, Commissioner and his deputy. Obviously, because of the supervision of the area of catching up, child welfare and child protection, the social secretary of state is in almost daily cooperation with the office, and we consider this to be a very, very high priority, that this good cooperation that we have already experienced will continue to be expected, as it is extremely important that, as a result of this cooperation, we can constantly, again and again review the legislative environment, the service structures that can truly provide meaningful assistance to the people in need, and that they can guarantee their fundamental interests and rights and fill them with content. I would also like to respond directly to two comments from its representatives, one of the MEPs from Teleki had a comment, and here a figure of 500 000 was given in relation to child hunger. There is no obvious way to pass the number without correcting it, because according to UNICEF's report on children's poverty and signaling, data in Hungary shows 1 percent of children. According to the UNICEF study, 1 percent of children in Hungary are not provided with three meals a day, and health statistics show a slightly higher proportion. Therefore, it is important that there is a difference of magnitude between the two numbers, which is certainly important and cannot be left unadjusted by the government. In addition, it is important to add that the government is committed to ensuring that families receive all support in order to ensure that the financial situation, income status of families do not affect whether the child actually has access to basic living conditions, basic food, food or not. The government basically wants to reach these children through the service system, so it is important to have a compulsory kindergarten, so it is important that as many children as possible get at least once a day of warm food in the nursery, kindergarten and school, and also during the summer break. This is why it is important that, from September onwards, the government significantly expands the financing of children's meals. While the financing of children's meals has increased from HUF 29 billion to HUF 58 billion in the last four years, this is now rising further in the next budget - we have seen that there will be HUF 71 billion for this purpose - and the number of children who will eat free in nursery and kindergarten will increase significantly from 92 thousand to 320 thousand in September, i.e. by 3.5 times the number of children who will eat free from September. We consider this to be an extremely important achievement, a step in which parents are less and less obliged to prove their own poverty when they are trying to provide the child with a basic need that is extremely important for their needs and development. This is what we want to continue to represent, and we want to move forward in this direction. The very important step of this extension is that the summer children's meal programme is also expanding significantly, as children cannot be left without warm food during summer and holidays. Therefore, we have significantly expanded the application system for this year, and so this summer, in the summer of 2015, more children in need will participate in the summer meal program, almost 142 thousand children, while 135 thousand children were the highest number during their 13 years of existence. We believe that almost half of the participating municipalities, therefore, will participate in this programme, this is also a significant expansion, since 220 more municipalities have entered this programme this summer, which is also an important result. I think it cannot be taken to say that the government has been able to produce significant results in the area of child feeding in the last four years, over the past five years. The other important reaction I would like to take is that of Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet's comment on child welfare, she also referred to my statement. The government remains committed to strengthening the child welfare system, and strengthening the signalling system is an extremely important element, and we absolutely agree on that. It was just recently announced how the strengthening of the child welfare system will take place in the near future. We agree very much that family care providers are extremely overwhelmed, and many times they are less able to provide meaningful help to families because of the high number of cases, so we plan to separate basically services related to official work and services for the care and assistance of families, and in fact all child welfare services can actually receive substantial help by raising the number of children's welfare centers from 48 to 198. In all walks, there should be an extra specialist, a psychologist or other types of professionals, who assist staff in the child welfare service. The government takes this so seriously that it will increase the overall funding of child welfare services by more than 10 percent in 2016. So the $5 billion budget will be raised by HUF 460 million, and it will get exactly where there are disadvantaged settlements, because there is a need for increased attention, so not only will there be additional resources, but there will also be more family carers, and we will also eliminate the system of 2 hours, 3 hours, 4 hours caregivers on standby, because families really need substantial help, and this can be achieved by full-time employees. A full job is also more secure for employees that they will really appreciate their work and do not have to do 3, 4, 5 jobs. An important part of the appreciation is that from 1 July 2015 the government decided on a wage supplement, and has just decided that in this distribution principle it will primarily consider higher qualifications, higher skills, experience and longer periods of service. Since they work in the child welfare ministry, we can make significant progress in their financial appreciation. The extra wage provided from January 2014 and planned in the next year's budget and the wage supplement established from July 2015, which is more than HUF 15 billion per year, will serve together to ensure that those working in the child welfare service feel the appreciation of those working in this service and the government's efforts in this regard. [[18.20]] Obviously, we cannot sit back, and we want to move on, in all cases - said Szigetszentmiklós and other examples - we sit down with the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and analyse these matters. It is important, I will continue to thank you, and we will look forward to the proposals on how to continue with the regulatory environment and the preparation of staff, the structure of services itself, so as to ensure that the rights of disadvantaged families and children are not violated, their interests are not harmed, and they will receive all support and assistance in order to avoid danger and put them at risk. All proposals in this regard will be thanked and accepted. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2015-06-23-172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now, as independent Members do not wish to participate in the debate on the agenda, we will continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2015-06-23-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was shocked by the difference in approach between the report by the Ombudsman of fundamental rights and the statement by the Secretary of State. He formally thanked the Secretary of State for this report, but he does not seem to understand it at the same time. When you say that we treat the culture of services as such, you are talking about a poverty policy when the report outlines the need for a catch-up. I would particularly like to point out in the report that it dares to be socially sensitive. Your policy is tearing apart Hungarian society. They don't want to believe that a single-key income tax is going to help you upstairs, and down there, it's going to make you miserable. They do not want to believe that the 1 percent tax reduction that we have just adopted, which means 120 billion savings at the overall population level, 80 percent of this, 100 billion HUF is realised at about 20 percent of the top, and only 20 percent of the savings are realised at the lower 80 percent. So you really feed me, that's very good intentions, but the report is about the fact that, without catching up, there is no freedom. I would like to quote you if I can - although I have it with a very small letter - from the report. At the same time, it is historical experience that, without the recognition and protection of social rights, the economic order behind freedoms can create social inequalities and tensions that could jeopardise the whole of the fundamental rights system. I would like, as Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck said, that if the report had a consequence, not only do they add 456 million forints to the 5 billion, but there is also a change of perspective here in mind. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-23-174	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by Members, if there is a fellow Member who wishes to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. It can now be concluded by the authors of the report or the proposal for a decision. I will ask Mr László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. László Székely: I do not wish to speak. Thank you very much.]] Officer says no. I will ask Mr. György Rubovszky, President of the Justice Committee, if he wishes to reply. Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. President.
u2015-06-23-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We also listened to a second budgetary debate on the title of the report, which had much to do with the report, but it was a good reference, and all my opposition fellow Members were sufficiently insulting the government's current policy and considered the work done insufficient. In any case, I thank the committee for the fact that there was no objection to the proposal for a decision of the Justice Committee, and I would ask that this be the case in the vote, and that in the vote they would be pleased to vote for the parliamentary resolution, which means that the Parliament accepts the Commissioner's report on the year 2014. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-23-176	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group asked for a speech entitled "Poor hospital - poor government - certificate of poverty." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-23-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I thought it was necessary to talk about these three issues, namely the poor hospital itself, the poor government and his poverty certificate, because once again the health demonstration shows that the government has failed to resolve the issue of health professionals. The poor hospital statement refers to the institution that opened today at József Rádor Square, in front of the entrance of the Ministry of National Economy, in the park in which health workers wish to draw attention to the current state of health and where they are on 24-hour duty. On the one hand, so that not only my fellow politicians, fellow Members of Parliament, but also the population can see all the challenges, all the circumstances in which they are working. I have had the pleasure of seeing the poor hospital with my fellow Member, Mr Rig, in person in the last few hours, perhaps first and only of the Members of Parliament, although it is supposed to be for us and for the Ministry to see the conditions under which health workers work. What we saw there, my fellow Members, were nothing but instruments or equipment that could be said to have entered the hospitals before the 1970s and have been there ever since. Aptly, my fellow Member said that 22 years ago, when he began his medical career, these tools were already abundant in serving those who wanted to heal in Hungary, and these instruments, these circumstances, have not changed. The patient beds placed there, the other medical aids placed there, or even the computers that could have been taken from a hospital, for example, were considered obsolete in 2015, but also in 2000. So they have a 24-hour watch to draw everyone's attention, and it is very good to show that the action and their perseverance that will sustain this demonstration until we reach the 1st of July. 'Cause what's gonna happen on July 1st? On 1 July, the next series of health demonstrations will come, in which health workers repeatedly draw attention to what had already been done on 12 May, but the government does not seem to understand the words. Here the so-called black-clothesmen, but also the Hungarian Health Professionals' Association, the white-clothes will also show and demonstrate because of the conditions prevailing in the sector. Of course, the poor hospital is also worth mentioning because the poor hospital itself reflects conditions and shows well the current health situation that health has been struggling with for 30 years, and as health care could have been 30 years ago. It is also very important to know that the problem of health instruments, although EU money has been received, has not been resolved or resolved from the EU's additional resources. Most of the investments went so-called and so-called concrete, which resulted in nothing more than what happened in Karcagon, and what Minister Sándor Fazekas said at the time of the handover that he managed to deliver a building embarrassing hotels in Las Vegas. Yeah, but in the hotel-looking building in Las Vegas, there were such tools as, if we're already at gambling, it's a gamble to heal there, because the equipment park, the existing stock, hasn't improved, and although the hospital may look perfect on the outside, they're using the same worn-out elements from the inside. And why is the government poor and why am I talking about a poor government? The reason why the government is poor is because although there are 51 billion out of the E-Fund this year for the health costs of the E-Fund, it is not in such a distribution order that it can effectively help hospitals, it can effectively help health professionals. So there's a problem with the distribution system. But it can be said that the government is poor when it can only promise health care, but it can give everything to Andy Vajna and the stadiums. It is safe to say that we health thinkers would prefer to see patients recovering rapidly in heated wards rather than slow soccer players on heated soccer fields, and this is one of our demands for the development of health care at last. [[18.30]] Mihály Varga is welcome in this poor hospital, and we think he should visit, see what is not being spent on, because we spend only 8 percent of our expenditure on health care in proportion to GDP. And what is the poverty certificate, because this is also to be discussed: the poverty certificate is its opposition to health, its attitude towards it, in which we can safely say that it has received insufficient health policy, has also been tested inadequately from health budget policy, and there is also insufficient health human resources policy in this poverty certificate. So we ask the government to listen immediately to the demands of the workers and finally to take action to ensure that not only are they insufficient, but at least one is sufficient. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-23-178	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meeting speech. It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-06-23-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, László Eisemann, the legendary masseuse of Ferencváros and the Hungarian football team died. Ezzi, as everyone knew him and called him, was 61 years old.In 1983 he became a junior gymnast, so he was a part of the 1984 Youth Championship. The adult team match hasn't started without him since 1989, except for a small break, he worked with the team until today. He served football for decades, played 22 NB I matches as a player, but he was even more successful as a masseur. As I said, he was a member of the 1984 European Youth Championship team, and later he worked out the best football players in the country under fifteen federal captains. He joined the FTC in 1996 and, apart from a three-year period, spent nearly 20 years in his beloved club. He celebrated two championships, three Hungarian Cup victories, a Super Cup skiker and two League Cup victories with Ferencváros. So far, the dry facts. But whoever knew László Eisemann knows that his work was much more than that, and his life was much more than that. Those who are experienced in sports, who are familiar with football know very well that when athletes run out on the field, when athletes achieve great results, they would not be able to achieve these results if there were no staff behind them who continuously support their work, whose work is much more than simply massaging someone, because, like László Eisemann, he was present as a family member in the lives of football players. If they had any problems, they turned to him. If he had to do the rehabilitation from serious injuries, then after medical care he was the one who helped a player recover, and when he prepared them for the match, clearly he was the one, let's call him the psychic trashster who listened to the players' problems, cuddles, troubles, and even if he couldn't give advice, but he certainly helped the player's mental world by telling someone these things. When László Eisemann was asked a few years ago what came to his mind about Ferencváros, he just said this is my life. 'Cause that was his life, really. He had great dreams, because he has achieved a lot in the field of football, and I think he can be a world record player with more than 250 matches on the bench of the national team, because not many people could have sat on the bench of the national team. So he achieved a lot, as I said, championship titles, Hungarian Cup victories, Ligakupa victories, he could have been part of the first Hungarian team to be on the BL main board, so he could be there with Ferencváros. He said once, he said, "I've been working out everywhere but on Worlds or on Ebs." But I'm patient. - He was 55 when he said that. 'I'm 55 years old, I may have another 20 years,' he said in an interview six years ago. And who knows what led to this tragic sudden death. It is possible that at a bad time and at a bad time a text message came, in which the dream of ever being there on Worlds or in Eb with the Hungarian national team may have vanished, because as we know, the Hungarian national team is now on the verge of getting to Eb, and it may have lost the hope that he can go out with the Hungarian team. Maybe this sacrifice you've been doing for years has given you a bad time to be ungrateful. But we can't change that. With his death, an extremely honest sportsman who was committed to home football left us. Goodbye, Laszlo Eisemann. Farewell, Eyzi. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-23-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the first meeting of the third extraordinary session of the summer extraordinary session will take place on 29 June 2015. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 6:36 p.m.]]
