u2015-11-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. The sound system isn't working.]] Dear Parliament, The 16th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. [[Novak Előd: We can't hear you!]] I would like to inform you that the meeting is headed by László Földi and István Ikotity... [[Novák Előd: There is still no microphone! The Russians are already on sound!]] I'll take a microphone, please. I see now, it's noted that it started with minor disturbances. [[The portable microphone isn't working.]] Dear Parliament, Dear Viewers! [[Lajos Korózs: We'll use foundation money to get a voice. Ancient Novak: You can also hold a meeting from the bottom, we have known since the land law. I'm bringing in my megaphone, Mr. President.]] I have one, thank you. [[Mr. President, if we keep quiet, let's hear it.]] I'll ask the tech guys. They're gonna see what's wrong. [[Előd Novák: We will surely listen to the memorial on 4 November with dignity.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Take five. [[It's a short break.]] My fellow Members, please take your seats. The 16th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I quote the poem of Norwegian poet Claes Gill in the translation of Tollas Tibor: -Gloria Victis! Remember the fallen, / those who proclaim it with cool lips today: / the final moments / guarded hope of victory is still more to them than their lives. The Norwegian poet Claes Gill thus remembered the victims of the 1956 Revolution. 59 years ago, on November 4, 1956, at 4:15 a.m., the Soviet troops' cover-up operation against Hungary began, during which about 60,000 soldiers invaded our country. [[9.10]] By 8:00 a.m., the Parliament's guard was given up, and the revolutionary government ceased to function. In the next few days, in the midst of the world's inaction, the enemy forces trampled the Hungarian revolution. In many parts of the country, desperate, heroic opposition has emerged against the invaders with huge numbers and technical features. The people fighting for freedom in Budapest and in many rural cities took up hundreds of weapons to preserve the fragile revolutionary achievements of a few days by holding back the enemy. During the desperate battles more than two and a half thousand died, and nearly 20,000 were wounded. We can't forget those killed between 6 December 1956 and 11 January 1957 by murderous volleys as defenseless civilians. We must bow our heads to hundreds of executed and tens of thousands of victims of retribution. Today we remember all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, November 4th is a national day of mourning under Government Decree 237/2001. Hungary's two national mourning days are linked to the crushing of two glorious revolutions, 1848-49 and 1956. 59 years ago, in those October days, as if March 48 had come to life: youth was raging, the press was free, political prisoners were released from prisons, claims were drawn to dots everywhere, and national symbols had been revealed. Despite their oppression, none of our revolutions and freedom struggles have been in vain, because our revolutions and martyrs have set us an example of freedom love, national unity and solidarity. We remember them on this day. Gloria Victis! Glory to the defeated! I would like to ask my fellow Members, our guests, to pay tribute to the victims with a one-minute silence. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the victims with a silent standing.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian National Bank's 2012 year B/89 will be followed by the Hungarian National Bank. Business report and report presented in serial number H/6947 and acceptance report submitted by the Economic Committee Decision proposal No. B/102 of the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2013 Business report and report presented in serial number H/6948 and acceptance report submitted by the Economic Committee. Decision proposal No. 13; and the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2014 by the Hungarian National Bank B/4898. Business report and report presented in serial number H/6949 submitted by the Economic Committee on its adoption. joint general debate on the proposal for a decision with a serial number until closure. Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome Mr György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, Vice-President Márton Nagy, Vice-President of the Monetary Council, and other leaders and staff of the Hungarian National Bank. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, author of the reports, in a 30-minute time frame. Mr. President, you have the floor. [[9.20]]
u2015-11-04-1	Your Honour, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to give you a summary of the 2012, 2013 and 2014 accounts of the National Bank of Hungary, as the Members ladies and gentlemen know exactly the content of the reports. These three years are divided into two stages, an old and new phase reflecting an old timeline, an old Hungarian National Bank, and a renewable Hungarian National Bank, renewable from 6 March 2013. The line's sharp. In 2012, the then management of the Hungarian National Bank did not comply with any of its mandates in the Central Bank Act, as there was no price stability - let us remember the 5.7 percent inflation in 2012 - there was no financial stability - let us remember the Hungarian ranking between the world's most riskiest ten countries - and the then management of the Hungarian National Bank did not support the economic policy of the Hungarian government, so it did not comply with its third mandate. In fact, surprisingly, the Hungarian central bank showed a negative result and loss of some HUF 40 billion that year. However, this old timeline would have been valid not only for 2012 but also for 2013, as the then management of the central bank - honourable Members and gentlemen, I would like to underline this, as this was a very serious statement in economic history - in December 2012 it published its forecast for 2013 that the Hungarian central bank would be loss-making in 2013 and, in fact, historically, the highest loss of HUF 203 billion. Why do I consider this to be a serious conclusion in economic history? Because in 2013 the stakes were an exception to the excessive deficit procedure. For three consecutive years, the Hungarian general government deficit had to be below 3 per cent in 2013 so that Hungary could be excluded from the excessive deficit procedure by the European Commission. If the December 2013 forecast of the then management of the central bank had been implemented, the three years would not be available, and Hungary could not have been excluded from the excessive deficit procedure in June 2013. The deficit of less than 3 per cent according to the 2011 methodology was not enough, the new methodology was not enough, so the deficit of less than 3 per cent without compulsory private pension contributions, and the deficit of less than 3 per cent in 2013. However, the HUF 203 billion loss would have been 0.7 percent of gross domestic product, and it would have been impossible to conclude financial and economic consolidation in Hungary in mid-2013. When the new timing began on 6 March 2013 with a new management at the central bank, our first task was to examine whether the losses of HUF 203 billion established by the previous management for 2013 were true. Once again, if it had been true, we would not have been able to conclude financial consolidation, we would have remained the most risky country, since we would not have been excluded from the excessive deficit procedure since 2004 when we joined the EU. We have examined it, and already in March 2013 we indicated to the European Commission that the Hungarian National Bank will not lose any money. Then, with an active and intensive central bank policy, we achieved that in 2013 the losses of HUF 40 billion in 2012 were not repeated, let alone the losses of HUF 203 billion, but that the central bank had a positive result of HUF 23.6 billion. I think that this significant turn of the central bank has contributed, to a decisive extent, to putting an end to the excessive deficit procedure at the end of the successful government financial consolidation of 2010-11-12, and Hungary was excluded from the excessive deficit procedure in June 2013. Ladies and Gentlemen, This was the conclusion of financial consolidation in Hungary in June 2013. This was the first significant example of cooperation between the government and the central bank after 2010, since the government had previously indicated that it did not consider that the central bank would be loss-making in 2013. So from March 2013 there is a new time calculation at the National Bank of Hungary. You are familiar with the Hungarian National Bank's monetary turnaround programmes and know the two cycles of the base rate reduction, which allowed the Hungarian central bank's base rate to decrease from 7 per cent to 1.35 per cent. This has, of course, passed on to the entire business environment, to bank deposit and loan rates, brought a positive turn on the sovereign debt market, and, as a result of the base rate reduction cycle, the budget now saves HUF 300 billion a year as a result of lower sovereign debt yields resulting from lower base rates. This amount is even rising, reaching the annual savings of HUF 500-600 billion by 2019. Therefore, it is important to have a favourable base rate level close to the equilibrium rate in Hungary today, which has a positive impact on the whole business environment and the state of public finances. You are familiar with the growth loan programme, which is expected to reach around HUF 2300-2400 billion in the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector in the individual and second stages of which the Hungarian employment expansion is primarily targeted. They also know that about 27-28 thousand micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have access to the sources of the growth credit programme. This company number is significantly higher than the number of companies with EU funds between 2007-13. This can be achieved by a central bank, if it takes a monetary turn and works mainly with the government - in Hungary the Hungarian central bank with the Hungarian government. The representative ladies and gentlemen are familiar with the self-financing programme of the Hungarian National Bank, which has made bank financing move towards sovereign debt instead of the central bank, and we now believe that lending and market lending can also boost. As President of the Ticket Bank, it is important to state that, as of March 2013, the Hungarian National Bank has completed its medium-term inflation target-following system introduced in the early 2000s. Although the Hungarian central bank has introduced it, but has not fulfilled it, it has not kept itself in line with the inflation target, and a central bank needs an anchor. As of March 2013, the Hungarian central bank has made it clear and enforces that the monetary policy of the Hungarian central bank is the only anchor, and this is that the target is medium-term inflation, which is a 3 percent level. The monetary turn of the central bank is therefore a return to a conservative responsible central bank operation. [[9.30]] Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and Gentlemen, I consider the decision of the government and the Parliament to be a very important and effective decision, according to which we integrated the former independent supervision into the National Bank of Hungary. You have seen that the fraudulent operation of the financial market for the past 10-15 years, including the fraudulent operation of brokerage firms, certain brokerage firms, the poor operation accumulated in 10-15 years, has been managed by the supervision integrated into the central bank in 10-14-15 months. A strong supervision can only achieve a strong central bank to clean up a significant part of the financial system from the results of the previously accumulated, say fraudulent operation, over 10-15 years. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank completes all three of its mandates with the monetary policy turn of March 2013. Today there is price stability in Hungary, financial stability, and the Hungarian National Bank is able to support the economic policy of the Hungarian government. This is precisely reflected in the fact that in 2013 and 14 the programmes launched by the Hungarian National Bank, i.e. the two cycles of the reduction of the base rate, the self-financing programme and the growth loan programme, together, were able to provide half of the GDP growth growth of two years, i.e. gross domestic product expansion. This is a very significant achievement, and I think it is once again an accurate, faithful signal of what a strategic alliance can achieve between government and central bank. Honourable House! Mr. President. In addition to the monetary political and supervisory changes implemented, the Hungarian National Bank has once again returned to the course of a responsible, conservative but creative central bank. After 2008, after the global financial crisis, only a few central banks remained in the global central bank, where such a turn did not take place, where they did not respond to the new challenges of the financial crisis. Unfortunately, this was the case in Hungary back in 2012, which is why the turns were so radical in 2013-14 and 15 years. We had to bring in four to five years of slumber, so I might call the central bank management in this area until March 2013. The central bank has also returned to the policy of building community wealth from public money for the sake of the common good. The money generated and used in the central bank is public money, but it is not budgetary money, it is not tax forints that result from the income or operating costs of the central bank. This is a special central bank money, and the management of the central bank, after we have achieved a positive result for the central bank in 2013 instead of the huge loss, i.e. once again: minus HUF 23.6 billion instead of EUR 203 billion plus HUF 23.6 billion, and we have achieved a result for the central bank of nearly HUF 30 billion in 2014, and I can say with confidence today that it will be a positive result for the central bank in 15 as well, it has set itself the goal of building public funds in the service of the public good within the framework of a new statute and a new social responsibility programme. Let us do this by implementing each programme launched within the framework of the social responsibility programme with the support of the government and coordination with the government. Thus, all of our public benefit programmes, which build community money, have a single objective, which is to increase the quality of the Hungarian education system, and to renew the Hungarian education system. In essence, all central bank programmes, which have started and started under the Statute and the Social Responsibility Programme, aim to renew the education system. Such is the Kecskemét university, the Kecskemét higher education system, such as the establishment of the National Banking Department for the Renewal of Corvinus University, such as our joint doctoral program with the University of Pécs. I think it is very important that, after the monetary policy change has taken place in the Hungarian central bank, and after the central bank strives not to have a loss in any year, but to have a positive result in the coming years, it should, at the expense of the positive result, develop Hungary's perhaps most important resource, human resources, knowledge capital and education. Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, As of March 2013, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank has been the bank of the Hungarian nation again with all its professional programs and all its programmes for the public good in society. Give a recent example of the importance of cooperation between the government and the central bank, in this case the Government of Hungary and the Hungarian National Bank. In September of this year, the Government of Hungary indicated that it felt risky to achieve the 2.5 percent growth target next year, and asked the central bank to hold regular consultations between the government's leaders and the management of the Hungarian National Bank to think about programmes that will bring back next year's growth. There are huge risks. I would probably not go through all of this now, as everyone knows from the slowdown in the Chinese economy to the continuing financial crisis in the various countries of the European Union. The Hungarian National Bank responded actively and quickly to the government's request. Under the leadership of Vice-President Márton Nagy, we have developed a programme which was approved yesterday by the Monetary Council and which will be used to strengthen the growth of 2016 as of 1 January 2016. In this programme, I think that we have a credible and well-founded statement that in 2016 Hungary's gross domestic product can be expanded by 0.5 percent and 1 percent respectively. This means that, at the request of the government, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank was able to develop a programme that gives us a chance to return Hungary to the fastest growing economies of the region and the European Union, i.e. to the growth band of 3 per cent or more. This is a recent example, but allow me to indicate that since March 2013, the Hungarian National Bank and the government have had strategic alliances and strategic cooperation between the government and the Hungarian National Bank, and all the results that I have now been able to report to you are essentially the fruit and consequence of this cooperation. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr President, Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-04-2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I declare that the CXXXIX on the National Bank of Hungary. Law No. 10. Pursuant to paragraph 8 of Section 8, Márton Nagy, Deputy President of the Monetary Council, will replace the President of the National Bank of Hungary in the course of the debate. [[9.40]] I give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, Chairman of the Economic Committee, author of the proposals for decisions, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2015-11-04-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 27 October, the Economic Committee discussed and discussed the three reports submitted to the Parliament by the President of the Hungarian National Bank. The 2012 report does not yet concern György Matolcsy, as it concerns the period of the former central bank president, András Simor. However, the 2013 and 2014 reports, as the President has repeatedly indicated in his speech, have already examined the results of the central bank managed by György Matolcsy and the consequences of the decisions that they have taken. Our committee, after a thorough discussion, has submitted three proposals for parliamentary resolutions to Parliament, in which it proposes that this House adopt those reports for the periods under consideration. Allow me to add a few additions because the three accounts are not necessarily of the same content, in all three years, in 2012, 2013 and 2014, the management of economic development was dominated by very different external and internal political events. If I can start briefly with the 2012 report, then there is quite a sad sum of 2012 because the central bank closed it with a loss of HUF 40 billion - once again, under the leadership of the Central Bank President András Simor - the year that meant that the Hungarian public finances, the Hungarian budget, had to transfer HUF 40 billion to the central bank in order to maintain its operation. This was not surprising that year, because in the previous years, with the effective cooperation of the central bank's management at that time, it kept on, year after year, managing losses, which meant that the Hungarian taxpayers' money had to be used to ensure that the conditions of the central bank's operations could be ensured at all.In March 2013, a substantial change in the functioning of the central bank came not only because György Matolcsy had a new President at the head of the National Bank, but also because the entire policy of the central bank had changed. As the President pointed out on several occasions in his report, the National Bank's monetary policy has returned to that track, which has been financial policy measures in line with the functioning of the current government, which, by the way, supported the processes of the Hungarian economy, since March 2013. The results of this have also been described by the President, but I think it is worth highlighting some of the elements. The new era was first described in the policy of the Hungarian National Bank by the fact that it took its operation seriously in all three areas, which, by the way, was legally important to it; it was serious that, once there was a law adopted by the Hungarian Parliament and which laid down the framework for the functioning of the central bank, a responsible management was serious about its desire to comply with the laws that apply to the organization they control, in this case the Hungarian National Bank. Accordingly, immediate measures have been taken to achieve exchange rate stability. This is why the central bank has now set the lowest base rate since its establishment, a base rate of 1.35 per cent. This means that the benefits that we expected from this, which are the consequences of the economic recovery of public finances, have fulfilled the expectations of 100%. The central bank considered it very important, and we also highlighted this at the Economic Commission meeting, to create financial stability, as we should not forget that Hungary was among the ten worst countries in the world in terms of financial stability in 2013, when this economic policy shift took place in the management of the central bank. Finally, support for economic policy was also taken seriously by the management of the central bank. This is why the Hungarian economy is now among the best performing economies in Europe. We can say that, over the past two and a half years, Hungary has also achieved outstanding economic growth among the EU Member States. As a result, we were able to create new jobs. As a result, we have been able to significantly increase the subsidies that have determined the economic policy of the past years in terms of both the direction of job creation and the improvement of the standard of living of Hungarian citizens. And that, no, a responsible central bank management was able to achieve a profit of HUF 26.8 billion by the end of the year instead of a record loss of EUR 203 billion projected for 2013. This meant, ladies and gentlemen, that the management of the Hungarian public finances, the Hungarian budget, saved HUF 203 billion in 2013. I think that, on behalf of all of us, thanks and recognition are due to the effective and successful work of the management of the central bank. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They can't hear you! They're gone!]] If we look at the performance of 2014 and add together the years 2013 and 2014, then we can say unanimously that, partly by saving this HUF 203 billion loss, partly by reducing the government's economic policy, and not least by reducing the central bank's base rate, the central bank saved around HUF 600-700 billion for the state budget, which I think was a very significant help. It has been a very important help for all of us, for the Hungarian Parliament and for the management of Hungarian public finances. I therefore think that the results achieved by the Hungarian National Bank in 2013 and 2014 in the reports are not only outstanding, their impact affects the whole of Hungarian society, as this is why Hungarian public finances were able to finance a number of development programmes. But perhaps more importantly, the President of the Central Bank pointed out that we could at all escape from the trap that has hit Hungary since our accession to the European Union, i.e. since 1 May 2004: the infringement procedure, which was the result of the irresponsible management of Hungarian public finances. I think that we have received very significant assistance from the Central Bank to get out of this position, and that this type of cooperation with the National Bank was an essential background to the development of the Hungarian economy, the successful Hungarian economic policy. I would like to highlight another important programme, ladies and gentlemen, from the past period, and this is the growth and credit programme launched by the central bank. After the crisis, many countries have struggled with the problem that there was simply no internal financing, no domestic small and medium-sized enterprises - or rather micro, small and medium-sized enterprises - have the possibility that otherwise they could not have done so in the absence of funding in the market gaps in which they could have broken in on the basis of their knowledge, previous production experience and production capacities. I think it is no new thing for you or for economic policy workers that, in more than 50 years of socialism, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises have fallen from all recapitalisation options, since they could not even function during the period of the regime. From the mid-70s to the end, it was possible for private companies to start operating at all in Hungary, so after the change of regime they were simply uncompetitive both on the domestic and European markets. The growth and credit programme has offered domestic businesses an opportunity that we can safely call a historic opportunity. Let me tell you a number of relationships so that we can appreciate the value of the more than HUF 2000 billion that could have been used as a source for domestic businesses thanks to this programme. [[9.50]] The European Parliament has been the first to achieve, in cooperation with the European Commission, that European small and medium-sized enterprises, which I note, participate in employment at roughly the same rate as small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, i.e. more than 70 percent of jobs are provided and maintained in Europe; well, in order to improve the competitiveness of these companies, they should launch a credit programme, if they can no longer always support their investment goals. Ladies and Gentlemen, For the 28 Member States of the European Union, the European Parliament was able to launch such a programme for a period of seven years, amounting to EUR 4 billion, or EUR 4 billion. The Hungarian National Bank, in cooperation with the Hungarian government, managed to run a programme of EUR 7 billion in two years. So what I can say is that if someone takes it seriously that they want to support small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, if they take it seriously, that they want to create an economic climate that gives these businesses the opportunity to implement the plans they cherish, the development ideas they can implement on the basis of their knowledge and experience, that is nothing else, ladies and gentlemen, but a matter of intention and determination. I am very pleased that Hungary has a government that takes its promises seriously, takes seriously that it wants to create an economic climate and an economic environment for domestic businesses that gives them outstanding opportunities in terms of job creation, as well as in terms of market competitiveness. Mr President, he spoke about the responsibility for social engagement and the objectives that the National Bank has set itself in this area. It is very important to highlight it, and in the previous debate, I think it was not clear that the central bank, as an independent institution, could manage itself with the economic results it has achieved. Therefore, there is neither a way nor an opportunity to pay the profits generated by the central bank into the public budget. It is interesting, however, that in order to maintain the functioning of the central bank, if it generates losses, it must be financed by the State budget. That talented programme, those research cooperations, the joint programmes which will be implemented in cooperation with the university and national banks mentioned by Mr President, all of which will give Hungarian society an added bonus that should otherwise be financed from the domestic budget. I think that the central bank should not be subject to attacks, but should rather be taxed on the word of recognition, and we should thank it for the decisions and measures which, by the way, trigger, in part, programmes financed by the state budget, the social engagement which, according to its founding document, is represented by the central bank and which is being implemented by the central bank. This is not new either, since there were similar measures in the previous period, when it was an opportunity and a gift for the central bank, if it was able to manage effectively, it made similar commitments in the previous period, obviously not of this magnitude. I can only - once again - be glad that there is even the possibility that there is a source of funding for these programmes thanks to successful farming. This does not affect the reports, but if we are talking about the future, which Mr President has also mentioned, I am also pleased that the central bank does not stop to support the recovery of the domestic economy, nor does it stop in its intention to allow the financing of domestic businesses to take place under ever-increasing conditions and with increasing intensity, because the new programme that Vice-President Márton Nagy announced yesterday, which will trigger the growth credit programme, is at least equivalent to the last two years in scale and effectiveness, if it does not exceed the consequences for the Hungarian economy, as the 0.5-1 percent increase in GDP, my fellow Members, will bring very serious budgetary revenue for our budget. So the Economic Committee has supported, by a large majority, the proposal for a decision that we have just tabled for you. I ask all Members of Parliament to support its adoption, because I believe that the operation of the last few years was not only effective, but also outstanding at European level in the National Bank of Hungary. I trust that those talented young people who could be kept in the National Bank, those who, with competitive knowledge at European level, did not leave Hungary, but who, with a sense of responsibility, remained in the bond of the central bank and, among other things, put together and started these successful programmes, I am very confident that this knowledge and this talent will continue to produce similar results, and I will say once again, that it will mean budget savings for public finances that will also help the governments of the time to develop their economies and to bring society to a later stage. I would therefore ask my fellow Members to support the proposals of the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-04-4	Thank you very much, Commission President Erik Bánki. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Ágnes Hornung, State Secretary, is present, and I welcome her with respect. He indicated that, while respecting the independence of the Hungarian National Bank, he did not wish to present a position during the debate. [[Delight and applause in the benches of the MSZP. One voice, Bravo! Lajos Korózs: We would have liked to have listened, Madam Secretary.]] Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Are you talking all the time, Erik?]]
u2015-11-04-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, After the Parliamentary Representatives of Fidesz have already expressed their views at the Economic Committee meeting, and the majority support decision of the Economic Committee reflects, in effect, the speeches and comments expressed in the Economic Committee, I believe that my opinion as the Committee's position essentially reflects the position of the Fidesz fraction on the accounts of the Central Bank. Allow me, Mr President, and my fellow Members, to briefly add a few clarifications and some data to what I have just said. When we talked about how the Government's economic policy has been supported by the National Bank over the past period, I spoke about the successful growth loan programme, which created funding for HUF 2300-2400 billion in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector between 2013 and 2015. I also said that the savings made in the area of public debt, as Mr President outlined in his report, had reached HUF 300 billion in 2013 and 14. In 2015, they will report 300 billion forints this year, and they are expected to rise to 600-700 billion forints from 2016. The central bank programmes implemented so far have already been able to give about 50 percent of GDP growth; and as Vice-President Márton Nagy announced yesterday, the credit facility or central bank programme for the next period, which will bring about an increase in the level of lending, is also expected to represent a 0.5-1 percent increase in domestic GDP. Overall, the transformation of the structure of central bank operations and operations is therefore the basis for the successful economic policy achieved by the Hungarian government over the past few years. I very much hope that the previous attacks that have resulted in the functioning of the central bank, the launch of the various programmes of the central bank, those Members who have formulated these attacks will see in the coming years that these attacks have meant nothing but the realisation and representation of political emotions. After all, even when launching the growth credit programme, let us remember the skeptical opposition comments that there will not be, that the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise layer is in no condition to be able to use such a resource in an appropriate way, and in this sense an excessive, excessive amount of credit is what the National Bank intends to allocate or deploy under the growth credit programme. The events of the past period have demonstrated that not only would expectations have been excessive, but they have very well measured the needs that have emerged in the domestic economy. [[10.00]] This programme has been carefully considered, and the micro, small and medium-sized enterprise layer has been able to absorb the total amount of credit planned in advance. I am sure that the result that has enabled us to create more than 430 thousand new jobs between 2010 and 2015 was a very significant supporter and supporter of the National Bank with this growth credit programme, as well as what President Matolcsy pointed out in his introduction that we had the opportunity at all to get out of the infringement procedure in a record speedy time, so that Hungarian economic development can take on a stand-alone path that is called unorthodox by all European organisations and domestic opposition representatives, which is now, interestingly, recognised by the World Bank itself, and recognised by Europe and the world's leading economists. Because, of course, under the circumstances of the crisis, in extreme circumstances, there is only an opportunity and hope that we can break out of the deep crisis in which the socialists left Hungary in 2010. All we have to do, honourable Members, is to see Greece today. In 2010, Greece and Hungary were in a similar state of government debt in terms of negative results of economic growth and the state of severe unemployment. If we look at Greece today, it is a country in complete disintegration, which is practically being held by the European Union on an artificial ventilator. They receive grants, loans I believe they will never be able to repay on their own. The unemployment rate of young people and start-ups is above 50 percent, unemployment alone makes historical records, and with frequent street movements the crowd expresses how dissatisfied it is with the current governments leading the country. In comparison, Hungary, as I have just said, has achieved unique results both in terms of job creation and economic growth in Europe, is one of Europe's top students, as well as in the area of responsible fiscal management, since in 2014 there were three countries in Europe that were able to keep their budget deficit below the 3 percent required. So in the results, in the successes that we Members of Parliament, under the direction of the Hungarian Government, have managed to support, the Central Bank has been of great help to us, and I trust that this will be no different in the future. Once again, I thank the central bank's management and all its employees for the sacrifice they have done in recent years, for the courage to achieve this with a completely new kind of central bank policy, and for the immense support they have made to small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary through the special growth credit programme. Thank you for all this. I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposals of the Economic Committee's resolution, with which we accept and take note of the reports of the Hungarian National Bank. Thank you very much for your attention and for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-04-6	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the factions have a 30-minute timeframe. The MSZP Group has indicated that this is shared between the two of them. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány.
u2015-11-04-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, While listening to György Matolcsy's report, I wondered who his favorite artists were. The paintings in the Hungarian National Bank's art purchase programme are obviously in line with the President's delicate taste, although these purchases show a rather eclectic picture. However, who might be the favorite poet of the President of the National Bank of Hungary was easy to find out - Dezső Kosztolányi certainly. Dezső Kosztolányi's poem, Poet in the 20th century, reminded me of this account, which inspired the President of the Hungarian National Bank so much that he himself improvised a free poem as a report. This free poem, on the other hand, is strongly directed at Dezső Kosztolányi's poem, and allow me to quote from the latter, precisely expressing the attitude of the President of the Central Bank. / My word if it falls, solid gold / medal. / Each one of them has my image as king's, / and on the edge / the proud writing: / me. *That's all that's come out of this account, ladies and gentlemen. I find it quite amazing that the President of the National Bank of Hungary, for seconds after he told his self-jeaning report, ran cowardly about the plenary session of Parliament, and did not want to hear the speakers of its representatives, leaving its vice-president here as a hostage to listen to and reflect on the comments made by its representatives. We rarely hear such a self-righteous, self-righteous report in the National Assembly, as the President of the Hungarian National Bank has done in recent minutes. This opinion is also striking because the results or inefficiencies that marked this era should warn the President of the Central Bank of modesty. And allow me to respond briefly to the voice of the lead speaker of Fidesz, which, in a broader sense, was also about economic policy, but made a few mistakes in this comment. So, the world does not appreciate this Hungarian economic policy, so I would like to draw your attention to this. This Hungarian economic policy was thrown into the category of Bovli during your administration, and it was not inherited in this way. When government was taken over in 2010, Hungary's sovereign debt was in the category recommended for investment, it was in the category of Bovli during your governance, and it is still there today; we are waiting to see if next week's decisions will finally get Hungary out of this unworthy category. But the lead speaker of Fidesz could have seen the development of the competitiveness ranking: we have only made two places worse since last year in our ranking of competitiveness. This does not show that the world would be so rewarding and appreciative of the steps of Hungarian economic policy. And if, by the way, the representative ladies and gentlemen looked at the evolution of the forint exchange rate, and if the President of the Hungarian National Bank had briefly mentioned this in his pompous report, it would have been possible to say that in 2010, according to the official data of the Hungarian National Bank, the average annual exchange rate of the euro was HUF 275.4, while in 2015 the first six-month average was 307.55. And while the President of the Central Bank was talking about a change of era, we can say that compared to 2012, when he took over the management of the Hungarian National Bank, and he considered that this was an age limit, he had to pay 18-20 HUF more for a euro. Are they that proud of them? Moreover, the conscious weakening of the forint is the result of the Hungarian National Bank's profits, and this should not be forgotten. A responsible decision on the profits of the Hungarian National Bank could also be made. I would have liked it if the Secretary of State had said at least a few thoughts about this in her comments, because the independence of the central bank does not preclude members of the government from having an opinion on the monetary policy of the central bank. But the fact is that this profit has now become a freely spent prey by the Hungarian National Bank. It could be used for other things than buying art and buying real estate, since there is a connection - the lead speaker of Fidesz correctly pointed out this, but did not take the idea any further - that this works in such a way that when the central bank loses money, this loss must be borne by the central budget. [[10.10]] But it should therefore be a fundamental element of responsible central bank management, so that when the central bank has a profit, it constitutes a profit reserve, just for the time when the forint begins to weaken again - because sooner or later this process will happen - then there should be something to make up for this loss, and the central budget should not have to benefit from taxpayers' money for the loss of the central bank. This is not what the National Bank of Hungary does, but it has started a gigantic program that has simply not been in the economic history of recent years. Of course, it is not a devil in itself, and it can even be approved that if the Hungarian National Bank is present in the domestic market as a mechanist in support of charitable activities and educational activities within the framework of the Social Responsibility Programme, it should not be necessary to lose any weight. Because what's going on here is simply a waste. It is a waste, since the Hungarian National Bank has pushed some HUF 250 billion into various foundations for educational programmes only. This amount is significantly higher than the annual support of Hungarian higher education. True, in Hungarian higher education, you can learn different exact sciences, while the purpose of this 250 billion HUF is to teach matolcsyzmus through various foundations quite simply. So the fact that the Hungarian National Bank spends 1.5 times as much money on foundations as the annual state support for Hungarian higher education is simply more than just a lot. Not to mention the purchase of real estate, since, in order to enable this educational activity to be carried out in so far as is necessary, the Hungarian National Bank has become one of the most ambitious real estate investors in recent years, to such an extent, for billions of dollars, it has purchased various luxury estates throughout the country and in Budapest. Once again, a modest social responsibility programme could be welcomed, but this rate of loss cannot simply be ignored. And, of course, when it comes to the management of the central bank's own earnings, this central bank management is not modest at all. Because while the forint was left to its fate, their own salary was taken care of. While earlier, when the current central bank president was still a member of the government, a joint decision was taken to create legislation in which the upper limit of Magyar Nemzeti Bank's management salary was limited, when it was discovered that they were now earning this money, because they were sitting in these positions, they were few and changed these rules. So they don't like their eyes at all that the wife of the Attorney General is earning nearly five million forints as a central bank employee. And they don't like the fact that through various foundations, through their management and board, the central bank management receives a significant number of extra allowances, so much so that there is a vice president who receives a lot more, nearly three million forints a month for the Board members of Foundations than his salary of 1.9 million. In fact, President György Matolcsy also earned some HUF 14 million in extra money, it is true that he failed to include this in his declaration of assets at first. In the case of other mortals on earth, this would raise the suspicion of fiscal fraud, but the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, which is to decide whether this is a crime or not, considered that the President of the National Bank of Hungary could not grasp the fact that he had earned an additional HUF 14 million in income. And the President of the Central Bank, who has a prosecutor's record that he is unable to grasp 14 million forints a year of extra compensation, here in Parliament's pulpit, before he escaped cowardly, did nothing in his report but praise himself to the heavens. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is difficult for Members to take Parliament's plenary session seriously, in circumstances where the course of negotiations is quite simply unworthy of this House. It's hard to take this account seriously when the President of the National Bank doesn't take it seriously. Seriously, he only took his own words, though, he didn't sting with words of praise. In our view, the result of the monetary policy of the Hungarian National Bank is a continuously weakening forint. The result of the management of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is a gigantic educational, art purchase and real estate investment program that would be in the honour of a real estate or education management company, but to this extent it is unworthy of the Hungarian National Bank. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-04-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the MSZP representative, Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-11-04-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Vice President and Secretary of State, It is extremely sad and disappointing that I was able to start this speech with Mr President!, the President of the Hungarian National Bank. Joining with my fellow Member, Mr Sándor Burány, I wish to express my indignation: the last thing I want to do is that the President of the National Bank of Hungary will leave an entire morning report after his speech. It's totally unacceptable. And even if it is not so profoundly pompous, but it is a puddle that the Hungarian government does not comment on the accounts of the Hungarian National Bank, despite the fact that President György Matolcsy here at the Pulpit stated that one of the most important tasks of the Hungarian National Bank is to support the government's economic policy, he has said close cooperation over the past period, and this is what he is planning for the future, while the government, keeping the Hungarian National Bank independent, does not wish to comment on this policy, the activities of the past period. It's also some kind of piss-off. But back to the report, I would like to quote the words of György Matolcsy, the sentences of the Economic Commission meeting on 27 October: a miracle that we have done at the MNB in recent years. And I have to tell him the truth, because it's going to be a miracle, or I could say that I never dreamed that the task of the Hungarian National Bank was to buy ten billion dollars worth of luxury estates. Indeed, it is a miracle, and I have not heard in the world that such an example is that it will add HUF 250 billion to various foundations, from which these foundations will solve educational programs, real estates and other assets, even though this may be included in the budget as a profit of the Hungarian National Bank. And it is also a wonder that the Hungarian National Bank spent 6 billion forints on the marketing and advertising of a loan program, while György Matolcsy and the National Bank just admitted that this programme did not fulfill the expectations attached to it, and they started with a completely new loan program, but they managed to spend 6 billion forints on this campaign. But the biggest miracle is that employees who are responsible for the outbreak of broker scandals work in the ties of the Hungarian National Bank and are responsible for theft of tens of thousands of people's money and wealth. They're still sitting there. Magyar Nemzeti Bank is indebted to us today by admitting that it has contributed to the loss of tens of thousands of millions of people's investments and assets by failing to exercise its supervisory powers. He's very quiet about it. [[10.20]] In fact, on the initiative of the National Assembly, a law was passed which almost excludes the liability of the failure to pay compensation to the Hungarian National Bank. Admitting yourself is the law. Admit that the Hungarian National Bank is responsible for this, but I will mention this later. But let us look at the sentence that the chairman of the Economic Commission, Erik Bánki, said about how good it is for young people who can work at the Hungarian National Bank, they were not forced to go abroad, because of their good place at the National Bank. Of course, they have a good place, because György Matolcsy - ahead of the proposal of the Hungarian Socialist Party - started a salary increase programme, although we did not mean that the National Bank and the banking sector should raise salaries, but rather those nurses, those social workers who have humiliatingly low wages. Instead, György Matolcsy raised wages, not little, but very much at the Hungarian National Bank. The answer to a written question revealed that the average gross earnings in the Hungarian National Bank in the month preceding its entry into office were HUF 600 thousand, and half a year later the average earnings rose to HUF 750 thousand, and by this summer it exceeded HUF 900 thousand. Congratulations on this programme, the responsible management of public funds is clearly not a strong asset of the President of the Hungarian National Bank. Here, my fellow Member referred to the fact that the leaders of the Hungarian National Bank are able to obtain a special and extra payment, although the government has now made it clear that state leaders are not ashamed either, that state company managers are not ashamed of their salary, and now not only Péter Polt's wife can earn HUF 5 million a month, but also the heads of state companies. In this respect, the Fidesz government has managed to achieve another settlement. We have examined the number of employees at the Hungarian National Bank. I'm guessing this could have been one of those homecoming programs for the Hungarian National Bank. We can see that you have a very wide range of activities. When György Matolcsy became president, 586 people worked at the Hungarian National Bank, 1275 in the summer of 2015. This is justified by the fact that the Hungarian National Bank joined with the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions and took over, although there were only 200 employees there before, so there are hundreds more employees of the National Bank even compared to that. So, while the government plans to reduce the number of government servants and cut red tape, the Hungarian National Bank has also chosen a unorthodox path, more and more people are working for an ever higher salary. There is a very sharp debate between the National Bank, Minister Mihály Varga and me, because I claim that the Hungarian National Bank is managing public money, while the Minister and the President of the National Bank do not consider the money there to be public money. That's where the debate is. I am convinced that what is in the public organisation system, whether it be a government or a government, whether it be an institution, whether it be a Hungarian National Bank, is a public money, but I hope that the Vice-President will discuss in his response what this should be. Even more so, because I claim that it is public money that the Hungarian National Bank allocates to its foundations. If I remember correctly, 6-7, I don't know exactly, created 6 foundations; the Pallas Athena Foundation, which deals with both educational and other activities, where the National Bank claims that, after it is a foundation, it operates independently from the Hungarian National Bank, while the chairman of the Board is the President of the Hungarian National Bank, so I don't know how this could become independent. It also raises a very serious question about what these foundations did to the HUF 250 billion they received from the Hungarian National Bank. Usually, the news reports that he buys various movable property, real estate, and works as an educational program, but few know and few say that he also buys sovereign debt. Now, one question arises here, and I will return to my reasoning, which is public money, not public money, because if my statement is true, that the HUF 250 billion deposited by the Hungarian National Bank is public money at the foundations, and the foundations are buying sovereign debt from it, then this certainly suggests that the Hungarian National Bank is violating both domestic and EU law, which expressly forbids the central bank to fund the government in any way. If, of course, Mr Vice-President, you are going to object to this now, I would like to say that Bence Tuzson - then Deputy Group Leader and spokesperson for the Fidesz faction - acknowledged this on Kossuth Radio in January 2015. He said that the Foundations of the Central Bank must deposit the money of the Hungarian National Bank into sovereign debt, thus financing the Hungarian State. This is recorded, it can be verified, so the Deputy Group Leader of the ruling party himself thinks the same way. Then we are talking about EU and Hungarian law violations. I hope that Mr Vice-President will also address this in his response whether the Hungarian National Bank is pursuing a prohibited monetary policy when its foundations buy sovereign debt, as Mr Tuzson said, in some binding manner. There's been a lot of news about real estate and real estate purchases. My fellow Member also mentioned what amounts, in what way, in what procedures, in what procedures, in which companies with offshore backgrounds are to be concluded, but I do not wish to discuss this. The threshold for citizens is simply so high that I think it would be possible for a long time to classify not only the National Bank but also the Hungarian state's business in other areas. It's quite amazing and outrageous. In this case, one really remembers that if you look at the salaries, you look at the spendings, the foundations, the real estate purchases, then perhaps, if the Hungarian National Bank has already taken on so many tasks, you could also undertake to operate kindergartens, schools, hospitals and social institutions, because if you can actually buy all the real estates, organize education, you could also take over some of the social benefits. How happy those who work there would be to see the Hungarian national bank payments, how happy they would be to see the conditions under which they could go to school and kindergarten, how happy they would be to be placed in such beautiful castles! I think it is worth considering for the Hungarian National Bank that, if it has already brought together such a beautiful portfolio in its activities, this could be extended to the social and educational sector. Many would be pleased, and many would be pleased. Perhaps you could say that again in a year's time as a success, Mr. President. The most important thing I have already referred to is the amazing failure of the Hungarian National Bank in relation to broker scandals. We have listened to Mr President here; unfortunately, I cannot personally confront him with the facts. He claims that the financial scandal of the past 10-15 years has been discovered by the Hungarian National Bank of Hungary and how good it is that this merger with financial supervision has been carried out, and it has been such a success. Well, then let me confront Mr. Vice-President here - and I'm sorry to have to address you in this regard - that in November 2014 the Hungarian National Bank authorised Quaestor to issue a HUF 70 billion bond. Again, November 2014. On 2 December 2014, the Hungarian National Bank authorised Quaestor to purchase Creditgen Bank, then in early spring 2015, a few months before the scandal started, it authorised the establishment of Quaestor Bank. Didn't a supposedly super-functioning supervisor check the Quaestor himself for bank purchases, then check Quaestor Creditgen Bank and Quaestor Bank to provide banking services. [[10.30]] So this means that the supervisors of the Hungarian National Bank were at Quaestor, and they examined the establishment of the bank, and this was also allowed, so they were allowed after a closed investigation. Thus, in November 2014, the 70 billion bond issue began, which was then in the form of a 220 billion fictitious bond issue, so it could happen in front of the National Bank and, in fact, in support of its default. But don't point fingers at a 10- to 15-year-old problem here. And when the damage to the administrative authority can be done by default, the Hungarian National Bank has a responsibility in this regard. We should not be constantly debating in Parliament how to pay the Quaestor victims, how the Constitutional Court now decides whether the taxpayers are paying them or not, whether the banks are paying them or not. Unfortunately, they're not paid, so that's a fact. So with a recognition of responsibility, with the accountability of those responsible, who, unfortunately, are still sitting in the Hungarian National Bank, admitting that out of that 250 billion, we could have given full compensation to the Quaestor-harmed, and then I think that there would be no debate between us. So there is a lack of responsibility in this operation. To sum up, back to the beginning of my comment, the operation of the Hungarian National Bank is going to be a miracle, according to President Matolcsy, well, this fairy tale consists of nothing but spending hundreds of billions of forints of public money for private purposes, buying paintings, luxury estates, five million-dollar executive salaries, billion-dollar foundations for teaching his own theories, and at the same time 32 thousand Quaestor-damaged from his disregard. The Hungarian Socialist Party does not want any of this Matolcsy miracle. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-04-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. I now give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-11-04-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Central Bank for honouring this House once again after the Economic Committee meeting. [[Interventions from the benches of MSZP: Long live! Dr. Bertalan Tóth, applause: That's your job, isn't it? Zoltán Grimlock: It's his job!]] and gave a summary opinion. Unfortunately, it should be noted that this responsible attitude was not demonstrated by the Socialist Party, as the Socialist Party participated in the professional debate on the Economic Committee, but did not speak to it, where the President of the Central Bank sat down and, by the way, listened to the comments and then responded to them. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Then he left.]] You didn't speak to him there in the work of the Economic Commission, you didn't add anything, there would have been an opportunity for the President of the Central Bank. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why, not here?]] These are your suggestions. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Unfortunately, not very much for me.]] They didn't live with that. So I think if they wanted to do professional work, they could have done it on the Economic Committee if they wanted a political circus, and they could have done it here. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Keep on praising him, let's listen to him!]] Looks like this happened. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What should a person who is not a member of the Economic Committee do? When are you gonna ask me?]] I would like to point out in advance that KDNP agrees with the Economic Committee's summary opinion and also with President Matolcsy's summary opinion, and I do not wish to confirm it. At the same time, there are some points to be made. We agree with the view that the central bank operations prior to March 2013 and the subsequent new central bank operations are highly distinct. While the old central bank was unable to fulfil one of the mandates defined by the Central Bank Act, the new central bank was able to fulfil each of the mandates. In addition, the old central bank has accumulated a large deficit and the new central bank has been able to make a profit. Allow me to highlight, in any case, one of the three mandates, which is to support government economic policy. Here President Erik Bánki spoke about it, and the President of the Central Bank also mentioned the growth credit programme. However, I would point out that the Hungarian National Bank did not create financial stability before 2013 but contributed to instability itself, because, as Mr President mentioned, it brought together a loss of 40 billion in 2012 and then indicated that in 2013 it was counting on the largest loss of the central bank of all time, 203 billion million minuses, which alone represented almost 1 percent of GDP. As has been said here, this would have actually been a historic peak. Unfortunately, I have to agree with the opinions that say that if we measure the success of the old central bank by how much it did not support or make things difficult for the government's economic policy, then we must definitely consider the management of the central bank at that time a success. For this reason, we believe that leadership and change of perspective have also come in time to support government economic policy in this respect, and that not only has Hungary been excluded from the excessive deficit procedure, but we have also managed to prevent Hungary from losing EU funding by doing so. In view of all of this, the country's economic image has been stabilised and the interest rates on sovereign debt have been reduced, the country's risk premium has been reduced, thereby allowing the state to finance itself at a lower cost. In addition to supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, besides central bank mandates, the Hungarian National Bank also helped the daily prosperity of Hungarian people, as the forinting of foreign currency loans has made it easier for hundreds of thousands of families to survive and make a living. In this area, it was important to have the right time for forinting, and we can all be happy to choose it afterwards. Overall, we can say that none of the three core tasks of the MNB has been achieved before 2013, whereas in the last two and a half years we have seen a very serious improvement in all three areas. It is clear that the new central bank management wants to make the MNB a stable, conservative but creative central bank, and we also welcome the growth support programme announced yesterday. After presenting our opinion, allow me to respond in a few words to the socialist points. If Sándor Burány mentioned Dezső Kosztolányi, I would like to say that his comment is probably in the category of literary prose, because it had little to do with the facts. I would like to stress once again that the Economic Committee held a professional debate, where, although the Socialist Party was represented by a Member, they did not speak to it, they did not take the opportunity to ask the President of the Central Bank personally, but instead made a political circus here. With regard to the assessment of economic policy, if Mr Sándor Burány thought he was trying to suggest that after your governance, i.e. socialist economic policy, Hungary came into the category not recommended for investment, and after the economic policy of the last few years, we can trust that it will soon be out of there, then we agree, because that is what I think. [[Sándor Burány: That's not true!]] The other point that they're concerned with is the operation of the foundations. As a young person, I would like to explicitly mention that we agree and even support the fact that the National Bank intends to participate in education within the framework of its Social Responsibility Programme. We do all this because we see that the current economic policy and economic elite, which, by the way, was raised in the breasts of the Marx Károly University of Economics, always somehow represents the position of the Left, has always supported economic policy, which, by the way, led to the country almost going bankrupt by 2010. Despite this, they have always said that left-wing economic policy is market conform and very well adapted to international trends. [[10.40]] So if the National Bank's educational activity and educational programme will apply to bringing creativity and new freshness into economic science, then we can strongly support this. When talking about the central bank's wage policy, our socialist colleagues forget to mention the fact that the management of the central bank, by the way, responsiblely, reduced its wages and, by the way, raised the salary of the middle management level, in order to keep the best people at the central bank and not to go abroad or to work in the banking sector. Overall, I would like to say once again that the KDNP agrees with and will support the opinion of the Economic Committee and its position, which has been presented earlier. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-04-12	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. I give the floor to Mr János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-04-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to tell you how Jobbik sees the role of the Hungarian National Bank and what it would consider ideal. We disagree with the state that is now in Hungary. We do not agree that, although Viktor Orbán denied this in his radio interview, he falsified the facts, the only authority that can give orders to the Hungarian National Bank is the European Central Bank. The Prime Minister said that this is not true, that is not true, but that this state means that one of the 12 points of 1848, which is about the independent Hungarian National Bank, has not been achieved to this day, as the European Central Bank depends on how Hungary's finances evolve. It is important to see that the financial system consists of two subsystems. It consists of the financial government, the fiscal subsystem and the monetary policy subsystem. Jobbik's professional position is that economic policy in one country works well when the two financial and monetary policy subsystems support each other, they help each other, mutually and manually support each other's activities. In Hungary, what we have seen in György Matolcsy's report has been observed recently. When the central bank president appointed by the Socialist course was in power in the Hungarian National Bank, the Fideszes scolded him, saying that the operation of the central bank is too expensive in this way, keeping interest too high; when the central bank president, Járai Zsigmond, appointed by Fidesz, was at the head of the Hungarian National Bank, then the socialist governments cursed that it was too expensive under socialist governments the functioning of the central bank. The banks operating in Hungary and not even operating here could draw interest income from the high interest rates, as the two-week papers of the Hungarian National Bank could also be purchased by those who did not otherwise conduct banking activities in Hungary. It is therefore important that Hungary finally achieves the goal of helping each other, supporting each other, and walking hand in hand with the two sub-schemes of the financial system, the financial government and the monetary subsystem. We do not agree on the independence of the central bank, which takes place in such a way that the central bank can break away from the intention and will of the State exercising ownership rights; I will discuss this in detail when I talk about how the central bank implements its various purchases through the Pallas Athena foundations. What have we seen recently? For years, the Parliament's Economic Committee has not been able to exercise the right to control the central bank because Fidesz has thwarted the fact that the central bank accounts will be submitted to Parliament every year. This step is clearly undemocratic, because we did not have the opportunity to give Parliament an opinion at all on the significant changes in the financial sector during the reporting of the central bank. What changes have been taking place in recent years? The Swiss franc's exchange rate was brutally loosened, foreign exchange-credit families fell, the laws affecting them changed significantly, more than HUF 200 billion of tax revenue came from the transaction fee, the government introduced a growth credit programme that has been kicking over HUF 2 000 billion and could not be discussed in the National Assembly for years, because Fidesz prevented the inclusion of these items in the series of items and the parliamentary debate on them. It is also important to see that Fidesz has, in its typical way, thwarted the fact that the supervisory board with control options over the Hungarian National Bank can meet and form. For 14 months, the National Bank of Hungary did not have a supervisory board, the government did not agree to allow opposition factions to fill the number. He pointed to the opposition, as if it were up to the opposition that the Hungarian National Bank could not be controlled. The responsibility in this regard is clearly the responsibility of the Orbán government. It is also important to see that Fidesz has very nice principles, but in practice, we do not see them incarnate. One of these very beautiful principles was the need to be more moderate in the public sector, pay should be at a lower level than the payments available in the competition sector, and compared to that, we see that when the Orbán government comes to power in 2010, it talks about the practice of the insufferablely high severance payments introduced by the socialists, it must be abolished, it draws the limit of incompetence at HUF 2 million - this term was not invented by me, but used by the government itself - and it imposes a 98 percent special tax on severance payments over HUF 2 million. Compared to that, what do we see now? Fidesz adopts laws where you can earn more than HUF 5 million per month in the Hungarian National Bank, not as a severance pay, but as a monthly salary. So I have to say that, according to the fidesz hononatas, what was considered to be insolence during socialist governments, more than twice this amount is no longer considered to be insolence during the current Fidesz government cycle. It's a wasteful exercise, unfair practice. I agree, of course, that professionals must also be paid at the central bank, but forints 5 million a month, I believe that in the current situation Hungary has too much money, so the government cannot afford it. Once again, only the Fidesz, if the Fidesz is in power, will reward his people generously, if they were different in power and lower in salaries, then he considered the central bank's wages to be brazen. It is also important to explain how the operation of the Hungarian National Bank has evolved. In terms of operating costs, the central bank could hold HUF 11.6 billion in 2012, which increased to nearly three times the operating cost to HUF 32 billion last year. We need to explain, ladies and gentlemen, why the operating costs have increased at this level. Of course, there was an integration, which meant that 503 employees - these were former employees of PSZF - were merged with the Hungarian National Bank, but in itself the central bank did not explain such a brutal increase in operating costs in its report, and György Matolcsy told his report, and went home with a noble simplicity, did not honour the Parliament by participating in the debate, answering the questions that were said here, and did not try at all. It is also important to see how the main groups of problems have been managed. Here are the Hungarian families with foreign exchange credit. What did you see here? Most of the time, we have also talked in Parliament about the fact that these families had a significant exchange rate risk, and there was much less talk about interest risk in favour of exchange rate risks. What did we see? When the Orbán government came to power in 2010, the Swiss franc's exchange rate was 170-180 forints, which was the principal debt of foreign exchange taxpayers. [[10.50]] The Orbán government - although Jobbik has repeatedly called for them, we did this week after week in 2010 to forint these loans in order not to release the exchange rate, not to be exposed to people - did not recognise the significance of this step, the Hungarian National Bank also did not recognise the significance of this step. This is how we got to the point where the Swiss franc's exchange rate increased significantly due to the government's failure, increased by one and a half times, and reached the 250 HUF exchange rate band when the government first tried to take meaningful measures. The cost of the default, the cost of the failure to increase the exchange rate by one and a half times as a result of the government's inability to pay, unfortunately Hungarian foreign exchange taxpayers and Hungarian taxpayers were forced to pay. This is the historical crime of the Orbán government, its historic failure. If they had taken action on time, if they had not been helpless, if György Matolcsy had first recognised the money market processes as Minister of National Economy and then as President of the Central Bank, this would not have happened. It is useless to constantly point back to the socialists, they were also at fault in this practice, but the responsibility is heavy on György Matolcsy, the central bank management and the operation of the Orbán government because of the damage that has arisen here. It is important to see that commercial banks have unlawfully realised a significant exchange rate gain between the buying and selling rates for many years. For years neither financial supervision nor the National Bank has taken any meaningful measures in this regard, and the Fidesz majority of the Parliament has been silent, and the people are in ever more trouble. You have to see that more than 150,000 people have passed out, 150,000 families have been paying off their debts for more than 90 days, these people have not been able to pay the monthly payments, simply because their financial situation has gone bad. How did you come up with that? On the one hand, customers have borne the exchange rate risk, the exchange rate risk they should not have borne, as it has been demonstrated that there was actually only a fraction of the foreign exchange collateral behind the borrowing of commercial banks, the high interest rates that should not have been paid at such a level. For example, we took the trouble to see how much Polish foreign exchange taxpayers, who were indebted to Swiss francs, paid compared to Hungarian foreign exchange taxpayers taking out Swiss francs during the same period, and the interest rates of Polish foreign exchange taxpayers were several percent lower than those of Hungarian foreign exchange taxpayers. So there has been a significant income in the commercial banking sector at interest rate, I would add: it is illegal, and the Hungarian National Bank has done nothing about it, virtually nothing has happened for years. It is worth analysing the impact of government measures in the meantime to help foreign exchange lenders. What happened? For example, the government introduces the possibility of final repayment, i.e. ensuring that debtors in the best financial position are able to redeem their foreign currency credit. A lot of people have borrowed forints instead, and this is what the government has said that they have freed them from the bondage of foreign currency loans. But nothing else happened than that the best-paying debtors were freed from foreign exchange lending, so the quality of the bank loan portfolio deteriorated significantly because the Orbán government acted in an economically unintended manner, and from a social policy point of view, it showed insensitiveness when it gave the best-earned debtors, who were sure to pay their loans, the opportunity to get rid of foreign exchange loans. The Orbán government didn't help those in distress, not those who were already starving and threatened with eviction with their families, but the Orbán government helped the people with the highest incomes with the final repayment. It is important to see that when the commercial banking sector justified the rising level of interest by increasing the country's risk because too much credit is coming in in Hungary, so we need to raise the level of interest payable, what came up. Even higher interest rates could be paid even less by the people, the lenders, even more loans fell in, an extremely negative process started, the currency loans fell in bulk, and the problem became bigger, not least due to the shortcomings of the Orbán government which were previously detailed. It is also important to see that the forinting on a market basis, in which the Hungarian National Bank also contributed, was a step that Jobbik disagreed with, because if there is only a fraction of foreign exchange collateral behind the loans, then the forinting should not take place at the current market rate. It is also important to talk about another main problem group, and this is a question of bank tax and transaction tax. In 2010, the Orbán government rightly stated that the system of public burden-sharing should be changed and the financial sector should take a greater part in public burden-sharing. To this end, several measures have been taken, including the introduction of a bank tax and the introduction of a transaction fee. However, it is worth looking at what happened when the transaction fee was introduced and what the Hungarian National Bank did, to be precise, did not do. Banks send out the notification to their clients that they will increase the transaction costs of banks and what God gives to them, to the extent that the transaction fee has been imposed. To the same extent, commercial banks have managed to increase the transaction costs of customers. We revealed this, we told the government several times here, I held a press conference on the street myself in front of the PSZAF building, later in front of the Hungarian National Bank building, and I said that the Hungarian population will also be responsible for these measures, because the banks pass the transaction fee on to the Hungarian population. The Hungarian people paid HUF 227 billion in surplus because this surplus was passed on to them by the banks in this way, and the ultimate burden of these measures was the Hungarian small man himself, not the Hungarian banking sector. It is also important to see that the PSZEF, which plays the role of financial supervision, and later the National Bank, did nothing to prevent this practice. The process can be proved more clearly than ever, the transaction fee law has been published, while the banks will also send out the notification to customers that the transaction costs of the customers will be increased to the extent of the transaction fee, and the Orbán government said that there is no need to be afraid, there will be no pain, as the new tax will be so low that the customers will not even notice it. Of course, it was not said that the rate of this type of tax would be tripled in a short time, as the Orbán government has forgotten, of course, that the final burden of this measure will be the Hungarian population itself. The growth credit programme is also an issue worth talking about. What has been observed with the 2008 global economic crisis? The fact that deleveraging, the deleveraging of banks, was one of the common stipulations among the financial sector leaders, the withdrawal of capital from Hungary by commercial banks, the deleveraging, not least because the economic policy steps of the Orbán government were considered risky for banks, and commercial banks reduced their activity, less credit on the market. In order to compensate for this, the Orbán government announced an interest-supported credit facility, a credit facility where commercial banks can claim money from the Hungarian National Bank without interest, with a zero-percent loan rate, and then place it at a loan rate of almost 2.5 per cent. There were a number of oddities, a number of unsolved questions at the time, which Jobbik drew attention to, but unfortunately neither the government nor the National Bank's management paid attention to them. [[11.00]] This is how the Hungarian National Bank allocated HUF 701 billion in the first two pillars of the growth loan programme, to help small and medium-sized enterprises, to boost lending, but we see that the Hungarian companies with fewer than 10 employees received only HUF 18 billion out of this HUF 701 billion in the form of a new loan. Forint 18 billion, my fellow Members, of the HUF 701 billion! Well, that's how much it took for the Hungarian small businesses to help the government. Apparently, that wasn't the case. A large number of medium-sized companies that were owned abroad have actually benefited from this money. In other words, first and foremost, companies that were already creditworthy had no problem taking credit. In this way, the first two pillars of the growth loan programme, with this HUF 701 billion, have become a very ugly failure. We're gonna have to honestly say that. It is also important to see that the growth credit programme, although now worth more than HUF 2000 billion, has not played its historic role, and that many economic policy options have been left unused by the government. One of the very important things was that if the government talks about sectors of strategic importance, a loan source should be allocated to these strategic sectors as far as possible. The government didn't do it. For example, it would have been very important that, if we had decided to make a major economic investment in Paks, a new nuclear power plant would have been built by the government, it would have made it possible for companies to participate in the growth credit programme during the construction of the nuclear power plant. If the government's important intention is to make Hungarian bus production through Rába, then make it possible for these sources of credit to be available. However, the Orbán government has done virtually nothing to help strategic sectors through the growth credit programme. The loan remains essentially available only to those who have been creditworthy. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Last but not least, we need to talk about the practice of buying castle and art, which was established as the unorthodox practice of the Hungarian National Bank. It is important to see that there is a significant role disorder at the Hungarian National Bank. The ownership, executive and control functions of the National Bank have slipped into each other, for years virtually no one controls the National Bank of Hungary, operates independently, does not even have a supervisory board for a long time, and György Matolcsy does what he wants with the profit added, with more than HUF 200 billion. The Central Bank Act 166. §2 of the Act regulates the obligation of the central bank to pay dividends. On this basis, if the central bank is profitable, it will pay dividends to the Hungarian State as owner. However, this is not what is happening here, but, although this practice has been legitimized, the Hungarian National Bank is treating György Matolcsy as pocket money with hundreds of billions of HUF, spending the money on what they want, buying castles, renovating castles, launching an art buy program. Basically, it's going to be an amazing exercise that's hard to describe in words. It should also be seen that when Jobbik called for a political campaign at the end of last year to allow men to retire after four decades of work, we calculated the social cost of this programme. And if we do not calculate from this amount how much money is spent on the male members of the age group, for example, in the form of social aid, then HUF 150 billion of budget expenditure is added to the Hungarian budget for the possibility of men retiring after four decades of work. The government says that there is no money for this, but we see that they can spend significantly more than HUF 200 billion than the Hungarian National Bank for the implementation of castle and art purchase programmes. My fellow Members, this is a socially insensitive, economically pointless policy conducted by the government coalition. The money generated in the central bank is public money, not György Matolcsy's pocket money, so György Matolcsy can't normally do what he wants. I know that the government has created the legal opportunity for the central bank to use its profits to what it wants. On the one hand, I do not think that this is appropriate, that it is not fair, and I do not think that it is, I add, democratic. Here in Parliament, a budget amendment can be submitted from HUF 1-2 billion, a parliamentary debate begins, we will discuss what to spend this money on here in the House. And György Matolcsy can decide what the central bank will use it for from more than HUF 200 billion in virtually one person. It is also important to see that professionally it is an amazing process that is taking place. Everyone agrees that the country should pursue anti-cyclical economic policy, as well as there is a professional consensus that, in the case of luck, this is supported by central bank activity. What are we looking at? With counter-cyclical economic policy, when economic activity is underway, we need to build up resources to ensure that once the recession has started, there is a reserve to reduce the effects of the crisis. What are we looking at? The central bank buys various real estates in large value and stores its money in them. The question is whether this meets the requirements of countercyclical economic policy. Well, hardly. If the central bank tried to sell in the middle of the crisis the wealth of art and castle that was accumulated in this way, it would be difficult for it to do so at a good price. After all, when there is an economic crisis, the price of real estate is falling, real estate is being devalued, and anti-cyclical economic policy cannot be supported. György Matolcsy, although, according to his own declaration, Keynes's devotee, did not read the books about it properly, did not acquire the curriculum on this, because it is quite clear that if the central bank wants to support countercyclical economic policy, it is not necessary to store its money in inappropriate instruments. It is important to see central bank measures related to the brokerage scandal. First of all, fellow Members, I have two important numbers for you. There were two dozen independent brokerage companies in Hungary, through which money was stolen, through which the brokerage scandal was carried out. The brokerage scandal cost more than HUF 300 billion, and these two dozen independent brokerage companies could not be checked honestly and comprehensively by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank with 1300 employees on one occasion for years. 50 national bank employees have been assigned to a brokerage company in Hungary, and for years the central bank has not been able to carry out one normal, fair audit. What could have been the reason? We are well aware that Csaba Tarsoly is a friend, acquaintance, and business partner of a number of Fidesz leaders. A crowd of Fidesz municipalities held billions in Quaestor, trading taxpayers' money. The government didn't make sure that public funds were held in public accounts, but instead, the money went to a stockbroker company. The money's gone. When, during the socialist governments, Quaestor also had a very good relationship with the socialists, not only with the Fidesz, when Quaestor received a HUF 16.9 billion loan from the Hungarian Development Bank during the socialist governments, which was state-owned, a report was made in 2010. Then, during the Orbán government, what God gives, the investigation of the complaint ceased, there was no actual investigation and prosecution in this case, saying that there were no irregularities found. [[11.10]] You could also see that once they'd only checked these brokerage companies once, they'd find out about the fraud, they'd find out they were stealing people's money. The failure to do so, which currently represents more than HUF 360 billion in damages for Hungary, is clearly responsible for the management and management of the Hungarian National Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, fifty central bank employees have had access to an independent brokerage company. With 50 employees, they couldn't check these companies for years. In our view, the cost of this damage must be clearly borne by the government, and the political responsibility in this regard is clearly the responsibility of the Orbán government. This central bank report, which is currently consolidated and multi-annually ahead of us, is not accepted by Jobbik. In addition to professional criticisms, we can also address formal requirements. With this central bank report, Jobbik will not agree, we will vote against it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-04-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-04-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would almost say, Mr. President of the Central Bank, but the question arises where György Matolcsy has gone. It's very excellent that someone is sitting here, I'm sorry, but I don't even know who he is, obviously vice president of the Central Bank, but not many public-law actors allowed you to tell your report and then leave the meeting room. I would like to note that it was not long ago, exactly a week ago, when the President of the Curia, the President of the National Court Office and the Attorney General reported. I think they are no smaller players in Hungarian public life than György Matolcsy, yet all three waited for the debate and responded to what was said in the debate. This image, which welcomes us here in the Parliament, is a debate on György Matolcsy's accounts without György Matolcsy, which shows exactly the situation in which György Matolcsy navigated the entire central bank as a loose boat cannon. First of all, I'd like to start by discussing reports that the central bank's supervisory board didn't accept. We are talking about a period in which Hungary's central bank operated illegally for at least one year, without a supervisory board. In addition, it did not have a supervisory board that the powers of the supervisory board required by the law were limited to and limited to strictly taken monetary policy, while, in the meantime, I do not say that the supervisory functions have been given to the central bank incorrectly, but also to the central bank. This is why the LMP has already proposed last year to amend the Central Bank Act so that the mandate of the Supervisory Board extends to the supervisory functions of the Central Bank. Unfortunately, life has proven us, because if there had been a working supervisory board of this loose ship cannon and this supervisory board could also examine the supervision of the central bank, then perhaps fewer Hungarian citizens would have been ripped off by the broker scandal, it might have been possible to avoid the oppression of many families in the Quaestor scandal and the Buda-Cash and other broker scandals. There's one thing we'd like to say in advance. We consider the monetary policy followed by the central bank to be fundamentally correct. That's not what we've been fighting about. We believe it is so right that the LMP, following its evolution, was in a debate with the monetary policy that the Simor central bank was pursuing, and we are surprised that the socialists are still crying back the strong forint. Let me go back to the situation that György Matolcsy's absence in the Chamber symbolizes. One thing is the rather specific - and then, I think I put it mildly - role perception that György Matolcsy knows for himself, but let us be clear: the real problem is that, despite the changing world, despite the very serious processes in the globalised economy, there is still a sacred cow throughout Europe, a monetary policy that is independent of democratic institutions. György Matolcsy can afford this whole idea of role in an environment where there is a European Central Bank in the European Union that is not accountable to democratic institutions, a European Central Bank with powers for different national banks, and there is an unaccountable European Central Bank which can still do so by pushing down the throats of democratically elected governments an economic policy that voters have not authorised the democratic government to do. This was a coup-like maneuver on the part of the European Central Bank vis-à-vis Greece this summer, and this is what they are now trying to do in Portugal. So György Matolcsy is running around in an environment where, unfortunately, the European trend is that monetary policy is not only accountable to voters in Europe, but it is also the European Central Bank, which, without any democratic mandate, believes that it has the right to change the electoral will and electoral mandate. Once again, this is exactly what we are witnessing in Portugal. I think it is right in itself to have an anti-inflationary policy which, by the way, reduces interest rates and has allowed the exchange rate of the forint to be weakened in recent years. As a result, the Hungarian external trade balance has shown and shows an unprecedented surplus. This policy has already been called for before 2010. On the other hand, everything else that the Central Bank has done under the leadership of György Matolcsy is a very amazing risk for Hungary as a whole. You would like Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament, to believe that the profits of the central bank are the fruit of a series of brilliant operations, and György Matolcsy, when he dunks paintings and castles for himself, is actually reaping the fruit of this brilliant series of operations. That's not true. It's a rude deception. Before me, János Volner had already spoken about this. The gain is due to the fact that in previous years the central bank has accumulated its foreign reserves at a stronger exchange rate, and the former central banks, not only Simor, but also the Jára central bank management, have conducted a very orthodox, neoliberal monetary policy. The profit is the difference between the earlier stronger forint exchange rate and the lower forint price achieved by the Matolcsy central bank, which I repeat, is correctly implemented. In English, if I, as a central bank, bought a euro for HUF 230 and now sell that euro at the current HUF 310 exchange rate, I will generate a profit of HUF 80 corresponding to the difference between HUF 310 and HUF 230. The Simor central bank bought the reserve for strong forints, and the Matolcsy central bank sells it for weak forints. I would like to emphasise once again that this is okay. What is not right, however, is what they do with profits. Just as that profit is misplaced with amazing dilettantism, irresponsibleness, completely illegal. I would like to say a few more words about lawlessness, in contrast to what has just been said, and I will continue to say that there is simply no legal right for the central bank to do what it has done in the last year. The question is, really, what kind of monetary impact is this amok run that György Matolcsy is running. The problem is that, as the central bank was created in this way, not because of some brilliant operations, but because of the differences between the otherwise correct monetary policy and the previous wrong monetary policy, this narrows the room for manoeuvre of the otherwise correct monetary policy. What will happen when this anti-inflationary wave is over? 'Cause it'll all be over someday. It will be that the central bank will be forced to raise interest and boost the forint just as Zsigmond Járai did when Hungarian inflation was two figures. However, in this case, the National Bank of Hungary will automatically suffer losses, just as it has now generated profits with weakening. [[11.20]] So what are you gonna do? After all, there will be no realised profits, which the law provides for precisely by accident, that it must be kept in the central bank; there will be no choice, there will be no profit in the shed, and it will be forced to turn to the Minister of National Economy, and therefore to the budget. So, to cut it short: the price of this amok run, which is about the fact that the profits of the central bank generated by its monetary policy, which has been properly followed, are being lost to the construction of the intellectual empire of György Matolcsy, and is being used to buy paintings, is being transferred to offshore havens to buy large real estate in downtown Pest, no, the price of this amok run will be paid by you to Hungarian taxpayers. You will assist in this, too, Congressman Hollik, Mr Bánki, because at the moment when a blank cheque is given to György Matolcsy, they do not demand to know where the profits are going to go, they risk that if the current anti-inflationary cycle is over, the reserve will not be there, the reserve will not be in the central bank, the budget will be in Hungarian, that is, the taxpayers will be able to replace it. So in Hungarian, the money that went to paintings, castles, various foundations is currently missing from the reserve of the central bank, and if the central bank is deprived because the cycle is changing, this money, this reserve will have to be replaced by the Hungarian taxpayers. The LMP supported, at the time, the inclusion of the supervisory authority in the central bank, but I think, on the basis of the spring 2015 developments, it is clear that disappointment is significant. We hope that the central bank does not dispute the Széchenyi finding that there is no economic recovery without credit, nor do they dispute that the positive GDP figures of the last year are solely attributable to the multinationals and EU aids, since the realization of this fact led György Matolcsy to introduce the growth credit programme. But this programme has modest results, simply because until the Hungarian financial intermediary system is able to meet the legitimate and sound needs of the domestic industrial, agricultural sector, there will be insufficient credit in the Hungarian national economy. The domestic economy also suffers because the central bank, which now has the supervisory functions, is unable to restore the financial system, while multinational companies playing for cheap wages are rushing into the Hungarian economy. Instead of boasting GDP figures reflecting the results of multi- and EU grants, it is time for the lending capacity of the financial system to be restored before the Hungarian national economy is fatally destitute due to emigration and credit constraints and credit depletion. Dear Parliament, Once again, I would like to say that the interest reduction policy alone, the weaker forint policy, in principle the credit banking sector recovery policy, the more active economic engagement can be supported. The fact that they have broken up with neoliberal orthodox, which is popular throughout Europe, whether it is a party or a caviar left, is, of course, welcome. In addition, there is virtually nothing positive about your policy, and, as I have just said, all the other elements of monetary policy and of György Matolcsy's ambiguous running are also creating hard obstacles to the otherwise correct monetary policy. The growth credit programme 1 and 2 are much less effective than you imagined, 70 percent of the NHP was used by companies to buy out loans and not to invest in new ones. It had no significant impact on investment or employment, as there are other strong barriers to business recovery. We need to talk about the state bond purchases of central bank foundations. In conjunction with what Bertalan Tóth said, the situation is that foundations established from the central bank's money are de facto implementing monetary financing under the EU ban by purchasing government bonds. The problem is, sooner or later, this one's gonna have its fast. So building an economic policy on this is exactly what György Matolcsy was doing as Minister of Finance: they are building on quicksand. At the moment that EU bodies have been found against Hungary, this policy must be abandoned. As far as supervision is concerned, I believe that the facts speak for themselves, the facts that we have unfortunately witnessed here in recent months. I'd like to start with the fall of Széchenyi Bank. This bank was filled with NHP loans, its leader was a very close-to-fire oligarch. It is typical that István Töröcskei, former head of the Széchenyi Bank and the State Debt Management Centre, has not been held accountable by the Central Bank for the fictitious capital increase of several billion forints. With financial firms under the supervision of the central bank, the media is loud with hundreds of billion-dollar financial crimes in which they have all been involved and are involved with government actors - what are government actors? ! Government agencies, too! More than six months have passed, and there is still no answer to how the ministries knew about the Quaestor's fall before the small investors at the time, in the last days of February. Or if the government or ministries knew about this earlier, why didn't the Hungarian Prime Minister inform the head of the Hungarian central bank, so the supervisory authority that there was a problem here, where appropriate, the police? If Viktor Orbán did this, why didn't György Matolcsy act in the last days of February? And that raises the question that LMP also proposed in spring, that the profits that are generated at the central bank may in two cases be diverted from the mandatory reserve requirement. One of the cases is when we say that the central bank, as a supervisory authority, may be liable for damages, for example because of its defaults, and this must also be reserved, and when deposit protection and investor protection funds also need to be replaced indirectly, in connection with supervisory deficiencies. The other case for which profits could or could have been used outside the maintenance objective is otherwise placing foreign exchange lenders in the position. None of this has happened, but we have seen that the broker scandals have been unprepared for the central bank. What happened to Quaestor, for example? There is a company with a capital of HUF 10 million, this is Quaestor Financial Hrurira Kft., which was approved on 25 September 2013 with a bond issue of HUF 50 billion. Then came November 20, 2014, the Central Bank - Dr. László Windisch Vice-President Sk. - once again authorizes the ten million-dollar company to issue 70 billion-dollar bonds. By this time behind the scenes, everyone knows it's a pontoon game that can fall in every moment. Two and a half months later, he'll fall for it. Where was surveillance for two and a half months? As a financial supervisor, you should have had information about this. If you didn't have information, the problem is that you had information, and yet you gave me permission, and you let small investors continue to be clients of this company, and that's the problem. Meanwhile, the central bank didn't notice or want to notice that based on current data, Quaestor sold fake bonds worth another HUF 150 billion, i.e. ones that it didn't get permission to sell. The other story that we have to talk about is that this is the traipsing of public funds, and let us stop here for a moment, because I understand that in your report you are the President of the Central Bank - unfortunately I cannot ask because you did not respect the Hungarian Parliament for waiting for this debate - the President himself referred, obviously in a positive sense, to the central bank's management of public money. I do not understand the surprises of Congressman Hollik and Congressman Bánki. Why is it a question of the central bank managing public money? Why is it disputed what Bertalan Tóth said that the Hungarian National Bank is part of the state system? You have written a Fundamental Law, I note that the former Constitution also commemorates the Hungarian National Bank as a constitutional institution accordingly. He's doing public service. [[11.30]] The fact that the State provides in the Fundamental Law and the Central Bank Act issued on the basis of it that it carries out a certain public function, namely the governance of monetary policy and, by the way, the financial supervision function in a public limited company, does not make it correct, as Congressman Tóth said, that the National Bank of Hungary is part of the public organisation system. I'm very surprised that this could even be controversial. Two. It is not disputed that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank manages public money, the Hungarian National Bank manages public money every last penny. Since 1992, we have to look at the laws that provided for data of general interest and in this context the concept of public money: not only the National Bank of Hungary, which organises public functions in the form of a public limited company, but also all public-owned companies manage public funds. This is the only way to approach this question. Therefore, when you are benefiting from the neoliberal dogma that monetary policy is independent of everything and everyone, you are saying that it is not public money, and let us not get involved; when it is detrimental to you, because you are not in possession, then you are attacking this dogmatic concept with unortodoxia. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank manages public money, and this public money - let us be clear - has not only increased because of the exchange rate differential, the Hungarian Nemzeti Bank has gained at least 140 billion HUF extra profit by cheating foreign exchange lenders. So I don't really know what to think of Congressman Hollik's boast, because the Hungarian National Bank has done nothing but steal from those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] It was quite simply that, contrary to the earlier promises, Fidesz-KDNP's election promises of 2009-2010, foreign exchange loans were abandoned, that they simply did not redeem the foreign currency loan based on a completely false, defective product at the rate at which they had been admitted. The exchange rate difference, the difference between the price at the time of admission and the price at the time of the forinting generated a profit of at least HUF 140 billion from the Hungarian National Bank. And what happened to this profit? They didn't get it, they didn't even get it because of the oversight errors. They didn't even reserve the central bank, but the 140 billion forints used to steal the credit victims, they went to the painting. [[Lajos Korózs: Shame!]] And even more shameful, he went to offshore paradises when you bought castles. [[Lajos Korózs:...they will answer for it!]] They spend the assets of the central bank as if they were farming their own estate. I would like to emphasise once again that the National Bank of Hungary is nothing more than a public body, a constitutional institution that has been put into the form of a public limited liability company under the Fundamental Law and the Fundamental Law. The Hungarian Parliament, the constitutional authority, provided that monetary policy and financial supervision functions were organised into the form of company and public limited liability company by the Hungarian State. But this is still part of the Hungarian constitutional institutional system. And one more thing. The reason I claim that it is still illegal is that György Matolcsy continues to have a fundraiser, painting, castle, everything, because the status law, the Central Bank Act, clearly describes what activities the Hungarian National Bank can engage in. For example, there is no art trade in this. The fact is that it is not possible to point to the company law or to the Ptk., because in this respect the central bank law - we are talking about a special constitutional company, if you will - is a lex specialis; it does not matter what the company law or the Ptk normally prescribes for public limited liability companies. Today, the central bank law must be taken as a basis. The Central Bank Act clearly provides for what the Hungarian State will set up this public limited liability company for; trade in art and other savings, carried out by György Matolcsy, are not included in this. From now on, what you do as a central bank operation raises suspicions of criminal activity in several cases. The fact is that when György Matolcsy took over the management of the MNB in spring 2013, the central bank owned five companies directly or indirectly, this number has now risen to 12. By purchasing MKB, an entire company empire was transferred to the property of the MNB. In these companies, on the one hand, the board of directors and fb places were filled with the MNB's senior officials and, on the other hand, the fees for corporate membership were skyrocketed. But in order to see the social sensitivity of the central bank and György Matolcsy, what else could be spent on the 140 billion forints taken out of the pockets of foreign exchange lenders: for example, while the average gross income in the MNB in December 2013 was 728 thousand forints, this increased to 870 thousand forints by March this year, which is an increase of nearly 20 per cent. That's really the government of the families, but it's just a matter of telling us which family government it is. It is important that the monthly salary of MNB's 93 employees entitled to sign up this spring was nearly HUF 1.6 million gross, almost 70 per cent higher than the monthly salary of 112 employees in the same category this spring, as the month of Simor's last publication, in December 12. In addition to spending a lot of money on activities for which there is no legal authority, there is a particular concern that the central bank, a constitutional institution, will engage in business relations with offshore companies. If your economic recovery policy is really designed to breathe life into the home economy to boost the local economy, the domestic SME sector, then the number one thing that could not be done is to engage in any business relations with offshore companies. In the quarter of a century the Hungarian national economy was deprived of two and a half times the Hungarian government debt, if you will. If you want to completely dry out the Hungarian national economy, you will make further deals with offshore companies. The central bank should be at the forefront - even on the European stage - in order to finally take effective action to eradicate tax havens in Europe, and in Hungary, to prohibit any public entity from engaging in any business relationship with offshore companies in line with LMP's demand. With regard to the Social Responsibility Programme, I have practically told you everything. What you call social responsibility is social irresponsible. They want to boost the domestic economy, while doing business with offshore companies. They are therefore precisely crossing the path of an otherwise correct economic recovery policy. At a time when the reserves of the central bank are being exceeded, while they are looting credit victims and running after their money, the Quaestor-harmed, after all, they are reliving the reserves of the central bank by narrowing down the path of an otherwise sound economic recovery monetary policy. To sum up, therefore, I can say that everything that was otherwise acceptable in the monetary policy of the last few years is also greatly reduced by the fact that the use of the reserve is not merely filth, it is not merely lawlessness on your part, but it is simply an obstacle to the exit of this monetary policy. It is quite simply that, despite the fact that the central bank wants to continue the current monetary policy in the long term, if the anti-inflationary cycle passes, if the central bank loses, there will simply be nowhere to reach or reach: in the pockets of taxpayers; the President of the central bank will be forced to go to the Minister of National Economy, who will pay, of course, not from his own pocket, but from the pockets of taxpayers. To sum up, it costs too much for taxpayers to trade in the art of György Matolcsy, it costs too much for taxpayers to buy the castle, it costs too much for the offshore riders from whom the Hungarian National Bank buys buildings. For one more thought, in the context of social responsibility, it is worth saying a few words about György Matolcsy's spiritual empire, just for the sake of fairness. György Matolcsy, I think that before his term as President of the Central Bank, he correctly noticed that neoclassical, neoliberal economic thinking has played a virtually exclusive role in Hungarian economics education for decades. [[11.40]] He correctly noticed that in order to expand the scope of the Hungarian national economy, new intellectual currents must be introduced into economics education. It is indeed tragic that today, in economics education in Hungary, critical economists - Stiglitz or Piketty - cannot be heard, who are otherwise taught in America or Germany. There is just one problem with this: it is not the responsibility of the President of the Central Bank to prepare for and make the transition. Then you wouldn't have liked to be the head of the Central Bank. As the Rector of Economics University, Corvinus University, I think that this task could and could have been done legally and effectively. The other problem is that György Matolcsy has no legal authority for this - as it does a lot of things. So, to sum up, I can say that the conduct of György Matolcsy leaving the Hungarian Parliament in the report of the President of the Central Bank is quite outrageous, but it shows very precisely the role played by the President of the Hungarian National Bank, who, I would like to reiterate once again, is not the manager of a private company, but the head of a constitutional institution organised in the form of a public limited company, authorized by Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-04-16	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As independent Members do not take part in the debate, we will now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group.
u2015-11-04-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to talk in two minutes about President Matolcsy's absence and, in this context, about two thoughts. One is that I clearly consider it a violation of Parliament's authority that it is not here. It is simply part of the political culture that they have been present at the trial of the accounts for 25 years, as others have pointed out; Peter Polt was present last time, the president of the Curia, the president of the OBH, was present, and I could continue the line. It seems that István Hollik does not understand the essence of parliamentarism when he says that this could have been discussed in the Economic Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, this report was referred to the plenary session for a reason, because the main accounts are discussed not only in the committees, but also here, precisely because Parliament has overall control of certain government bodies and certain independent institutions by all Members. I, for example, am not a member of the Economic Committee, so I cannot express my questions and comments there, even though I, as an elected Member, wanted to ask the question, for example, about the purchase of castles, central bank payments, the purchase of art or actually about the education of matolcsyzmus directly to the President of the Central Bank. I can't do this. Why can't I do it? Although Parliament has decided to refer this report and its negotiation to the plenary session, the President of the Central Bank will not take part in the parliamentary debate. So I'm forced to leave here unfinished, because György Matolcsy will not answer my questions or the questions I wanted to ask. And by the way, the vice-president of the Central Bank is physically present, but by the way, he talks and laughs with a fellow Member and I find it particularly outrageous. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-04-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with speeches announced in a normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-04-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gergely Bárándy goes on to say that it is unworthy and unacceptable. It is unworthy and unacceptable that, when György Matolcsy should be here, he finds something quite different to do. At a time when it is not for 2012, not for 13, not for one, not for two years, but for three years, for 12, for 13 and 14, György Matolcsy simply tells what he thinks about the world's development and leaves the room. I think that this is a mockery of the Hungarian Parliament. This story could start from somewhere other than where György Matolcsy told his stories about the pulpit, from how Hungary's competitiveness is developing, how and how investment intentions develop not only from foreign investors, but also from domestic investors, how they avoid Hungary, what the expected future is, how the fate of the people living in Hungary develops. I will not go into the details of this, I put these few ideas here at the beginning only because this picture is not as rosy as the words of either the President of the Hungarian National Bank or the Chairman of the Economic Commission in connection with the lectures. This is why it is inexhaustible that, when in some sense more positive processes take place in Hungary - thanks to God, many external factors help the country to do so - profit is considered to be a free prey, they believe that it can be used in the way you want it to be, while there would be thousands of things in this country, towards which these resources could be used reasonably, reasonably and in a way that is in the interest of the people. There is a waste: HUF 250 billion through six foundations, relying on and citing the implementation of educational programs. In the meantime, we have to see that they plan to buy real estate in the order of approximately HUF 50 billion, to carry out renovations in the order of some HUF 40 billion. There is a palace for which EUR 45.3 million plus VAT has been paid, and there is also a Value Reserve program, within which, if my monuments do not cheat, nearly 9 billion sources of HUF 9000 million have been used for the purchase of various artworks and collections. In addition to the purchase of movable property and property, the purchase of sovereign debt has also become characteristic. I do not wish to get into it, but there is at least a question of making the purchase of sovereign debt by the Hungarian National Bank. In the meantime, what is going on in the walls of the Hungarian National Bank? When the change took place, average payments in the area of around HUF 600,000 were recorded within the framework of the Hungarian National Bank, and after Matolcsy had taken part of his own people to the Hungarian National Bank, this had already swelled to HUF 750 thousand, and now we are saying that this average is above HUF 900,000. Of course, within the average, there are also five million HUF payments. While in Hungary over the last five years, as an example, people who worked in public works have lost a third of the purchasing power of their earned money - because you have taken it from them - while people working on minimum wages receive about HUF 4-5 thousand less in their hands, yeah, while employers and employees were burdened with a charge and surplus, with a surplus of HUF 32,000 loaded on the minimum wage, while within the framework of the Hungarian National Bank there are 5 million payments, i.e. HUF 5 million. Yeah, it's not all of them, of course, because there are additional resources available in cafeteria and other frameworks, obviously so that they don't have to live their lives in tight conditions, obviously so that they have at least a hundred times as much in their hands as they do in public employment or minimum wage. I suppose that's okay with you. I think it's definitely not okay. [[11.50]] It is definitely not okay, because I think that the use of public funds should not be for the benefit of some people, but for the benefit of all people living in Hungary. [[Lajos Korózs: For example, the starving children!]] Yes, as my fellow Member says, for example, the starving children. But I can also say that in terms of public money, you know that if the Magyar Nemzeti Bank accumulates a profit, it is not his profit. This is the country's profits, especially as it has been said in the House's walls today, that a significant part of this is achieved practically by using people: they are currency-credited - remember how conversions are made. If the profits were for the Hungarian National Bank, which is not his, I'm telling you, for the people, so is the loss. It's just, you know, when there's a loss, something else happens. If there is a loss, then it will be distributed, then it will be borne by the people, not György Matolcsy, and not by employees of the Hungarian National Bank or even by the six foundations. It is worth thinking about this, therefore, that if there is a profit, it affects and affects citizens as well as if there is a loss. The Chairman of the Economic Committee said how important the credit programme under the heading of the growth credit programme is. I also think that any programme that can help or help micro, small businesses is important. But I would like to point out that 2-3 percent of this roughly HUF 700 billion money is what has been made available to micro-enterprises. Two to three percent of what has reached the micro-enterprises! What are we talking about? If you're trying to fool people, it's good to tell them that these processes are going on, but they're not really going to hold up. If I remember correctly, Erik Bánki said that in the course of seven years for the 28 EU countries, it was the equivalent of EUR 4 billion, which appeared within the framework of such credit programmes, but in Hungary it was 2.... [[Erik Bánki: 7 billion!]] - Seven billion. Now, that's what hit my head. [[Gábor Riz: Ears!]] 'Cause I remember it as if we were part of the 28th. And if, overall, 4 billion are used within the 28th, Hungary's use of EUR 7 billion is difficult to match. But there's an explanation for that. But then I say that if this is true and true, then my fellow Member, Erik Bánki, as Chairman of the Economic Commission, should be kind enough to make sure that these resources get to what the story is about in Hungarian: the Hungarian micro-enterprises, and not 2-3 percent of the resources are faced by these businesses. I also think it is very important that we talk about the period when the Magyar Nemzeti Bank operated without a supervisory board regarding the operation of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank. I think it is important because, at that time, it is apparent that there were torsos that could have been avoided, of course, if the government wanted to. I will not go to the bottom of it, my fellow Members will speak of it, regarding the Quaestor scandal and other matters, where the ministries have become familiar with all knowledge at the last moments, and people have become excluded. I think it's not fair, and I might even say that everything you've done in this regard is not legal. I think that this period will be exemplary if we look back on it later, because apparently the interests of those 32,000 people did not prevail, but others did. It has been mentioned, so I will only add one sentence to it, let us say, about the introduction of the institution system of end repayment, which most of all affected those who are in the best financial position, because they were able to draw out 20-30-50 million forints from one moment to the next, then you here, within the walls of the House, gave birth to a law about, say, the origin of that 30-50 million forints cannot be examined by the National Tax and Customs Office. You remember him, don't you? I cannot call this the law of impertinence, since Hungarian citizens make tax returns on their incomes, they have to account for each forint and penny. If you're wrong, if you make a mistake, if anything happens, you'll have to take responsibility. You supported them, and I don't even dare to assume that there is one among you who has paid back 20-30-50 million forints in final repayment, with the calmness that no one can ever ask you that, of course, and the National Tax and Customs Office, where this money comes from. Now, these are the things that make everything that's going on in Hungary a little interesting, even when it's connected to the National Bank. It's about lowering the base rate, Matolcsy. He talks about how 7 percent of us get to 1.35 percent, if I remember correctly, but forgets to say that the Fed, the European Central Bank, measures to halv oil and gas prices, how the abundance of money in these periods appears and how and how it affects the development of the base rate. And what if they weren't, if they weren't typical? So we're just gonna do the same thing? It would have been worth talking about, not just trying to present, as a result of my own, all the things that, I tell you, thank God, were born because of positive external circumstances. And Matolcsy is talking about building community wealth in the service of the common good through public funds, and that is what we are doing in the context of negotiations with the government. Public money! Once again, when public money is something, it must be for the benefit of the people, not just for the benefit of some, but for the benefit of the people, not only when there is a loss, which is distributed, but also when there is a gain. And one thing I'm just going to mention here, but I'll open it in the debate later. Erik Bánki is also about the positive impact these three years have had on the economy and, beyond that, on employment itself. He adds that the government takes its promises seriously. Now here, in this one minute, I'm only talking about one of these two, and the other in another comment. How seriously the government takes its promises, I can only say, fellow Members, that they did not have many promises, not only in 2014, but before 2010. Their promises were about to bring about a radical tax reduction in this country. Their promises were to create 1 million new jobs in the economy. From this, we can see that about 30 new taxes have been introduced, and in 2011-2012 more than HUF 2000 billion have been added; from the employment side, I will tell you more about what has developed. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-04-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-11-04-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to start by saying that not all senior officials allow themselves to do so, which President Matolcsy will allow himself. And let me set it as an example, I won't do it many times, but let me set the example of Attorney General Péter Polt, who, if he can't answer the questions in this room, even if he doesn't take part in the debate, but says at least one closing word, responds to it, and then promises to answer everyone's questions in a letter. And, Mr. Vice President, I have news that these letters will be sent to us. [[12.00]] Another thing, of course, is what we think about the content of these, but some people really consider Parliament to be the place where the affairs of the country need to be handled, where questions can be asked, and where they can expect answers, and if they cannot respond locally, they will respond in a letter to the Members of Parliament. I think it would be worth following this example, even if, obviously, President Matolcsy thought it was an endless time-consuming thing to come into the house of Hungarian legislation, to listen to a lot of criticism and not to be protected by Fidesz MEPs. So she doesn't necessarily think it's worth sitting through. I think that this kind of behavior, and I'm going to go a little bit into the operation of the National Bank, of course, so the kind of distorted social image that they are building, so in the neobaroque social image, this kind of, a little more dignified or a great master, forgive me if I don't know exactly, so this kind of behavior can perfectly fit in, which, by the way, you serve. But let's mention a few cases. You directly support the Hungarian budget by HUF 250 billion. I could also do, by the way, to pay this money into the budget as a dividend. If it were to be paid as a dividend, it might be possible for the opposition or their pro-government representatives to make proposals for spending this money, even if it is sometimes different from their own. I know that this kind of thinking does not necessarily fit in the world of respectable gentlemen, that someone else has an idea and an idea of what to do with the public money - and here I would stress that it is public money - that you are farming with. Another thing is why the government is letting this happen, and what interest the Hungarian government has in building around it a new power centre, independent of the government, with almost inexhaustible economic resources and funding resources, independent of the government. This is another issue, by the way, and I believe that either the representative of the government present or anyone from the government can take this issue on their own perfectly calmly, and I would also like to see either the representative of the government or Mr Vice-President involved in the debate in a formal way, not only in the closing line, but also in the wording of what has been written for him. Neither do I, nor do many of my fellow Members think it is good that the Hungarian National Bank will double the total cost of Hungarian higher education for the education of Matolcsyzmus. He puts 250 billion forints into foundations and, by the way, draws into the focus what would in fact be such a sideline of his activities, that economic sciences, research, education should, of course, be supported by the Hungarian National Bank, drawing this into the focus, and obviously forgetting what his main task would be, not doing the public task that would be his task, but turning terrible energies into the education of matholchyzmus, the education of unortodoxia. He doesn't spend the money on it, he doesn't spend the money on it for a second. And I'm telling you, it's out of public property. Let us not have this debate, whether it is public money or not public money. If it's not public money, why don't you tell me what it is? Why do you have elected leaders in this bank? Why does this bank have elected officials? Another question is why it took you so long to have a supervisory board of the Hungarian National Bank, which oversees the management that does quite interesting things, but I think that money would be in a better place if György Matolcsy did not try to build an independent power center around him. I believe that the government should have an opinion on this, and I believe that, even on the basis of European standards, it is at least opinionary that the Hungarian National Bank finances the Hungarian budget indirectly. With regard to lending, in terms of the growth credit programme, as my fellow Members have already said before me, on the one hand, it has not fulfilled its expectations, but on the other hand it has slowed down the process that I believe would be important for you, too, if you were to deal with this and not with the mathlysmus. Talking to a lot of banking professionals who say that they would be encouraged by the government, they could be exempted from bank tax if they were lending credit, especially if they were lending Hungarian SMEs - but please, how could he lend more competitively in this sphere than the Hungarian National Bank lends to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises under the conditions it has set itself? Not to mention that a modest, albeit not offensive, HUF 6 billion was spent on the propaganda of a failed enterprise. If we add that this year, say, to eliminate child hunger, or at least to reduce it, there is only HUF 3.6 billion, a little more than half, and perhaps that is exactly what is missing, exactly HUF 6 billion is missing, we believe that neither public policy nor economic policy nor social policy objectives that should be taken into account by you, because the problem is that the very distorted world image, the very distorted image of society, which otherwise gives birth to these situations, usually leads to this. These are not given to you by faith, nor by positions, nor by the money over which you would be disposed. After all, your main activity is to shape economic policy, to shape monetary policy - sorry to bore you - the research of these, to propose. If you were to perform this task and at least listen to the world around us, then Hungary would not receive such tremendously harsh international criticisms as it receives. A week ago, the Ambassador of the United States of America said that investors complain to her because the economic policy regulatory system in Hungary is unpredictable and the tax system is unpredictable. This is confirmed by the fact that some 30 new taxes have been produced in recent years. The introduction of these things is unpredictable. [[In the notary seat István Ikotity will be replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]] Many times, however, it seems that taxation and taxation are not used, let us say, to balance social inequalities, not to increase competitiveness, not to achieve certain economic policy goals, but to simply punish them. I think that the Hungarian National Bank should also look the other way if, let's say, international communities or some non-negligible players in the international community, this has, by the way, made an eye out, except for the Hungarian National Bank, because the Hungarian National Bank is building a neobaroque society, and this is not a problem for the viewers to have debates with each other. The same applies also to exchange rate policy. News has been leaked, it has been read today, of course it can be detected. They don't necessarily deal with the exchange rate. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank does not necessarily deal with the exchange rate, although we would think that one of its primary tasks would otherwise be to preserve the stability of the forint. What I can imagine is that the goal is different, and I can imagine that you must serve other goals. But there should be just as much professional honor as we do here, because you will not argue with us - I will be happy if you do this in a formal way - then at least for the sake of the record or at least for the sake of a memo, you will give your opinion on why the Hungarian exchange rate policy had to be released, why you have to throw the reins into the horses, and then what happens will happen, and you will try to follow these processes. [[12.10]] We believe that the designation of a sustainable track - and I said this in the closing debate yesterday - would be more important than the task of monitoring and researching economic policy processes than the purchase of real estate than the education of matolcsyzmus. I'm asking you to pull this back into focus. Be professional in these matters and give advice, even if it is sometimes confrontative. Even if sometimes this can only be done with debate in the House, and especially it is worth listening to criticism, because sometimes there is a lot to learn from, or perhaps we could learn that something is wrong with criticism. This type of emptiness of these accounts, especially after years of not having such a report, in addition to being unworthy, incredibly inefficient in this matter, and I ask you to understand this. Those international - and I must refer once again to the American ambassador's speech last week - and to criticisms of economic policy with a marked impact, there can be no reaction to that or any manifestation other than punishment when it is said that growth in Hungary is being eaten by corruption. It cannot be that there is no reaction, no response capacity, or even will in the country if it is said that foreign investors do not come to Hungary; international capital does not come to Hungary because economic policy regulations are unpredictable in Hungary, the regulation of individual sectors is unpredictable and the tax system is unpredictable and unpredictable. If the Hungarian National Bank, which is monitoring this Hungarian economic policy, sometimes declares that it has no reaction, I believe that it is a fundamental mistake and that this should be changed. About the broker scandals, I don't have much time left, but I'd like to talk more. In order to show themselves in the picture that finally exposed these brokers, these financial service providers, I believe that the face toaster!2010. On 17 September, with the signature of Károly Szász, a decision consisting of 17 findings was taken by the State Audit Office of Financial Institutions, which you most likely did not implement, or, if you have implemented it, you have not answered my many questions. How is it that the IT system of these companies was found to be wrong already in 2010, but nothing happened. But nothing happened! Where is the six-month follow-up system in those findings, the improvement of the internal control system, where are the things written there in 17 points, and what has happened since then in these cases? One more thing in time: precisely because there is a problem with IT systems in general, they wondered whether - I know that they have thought about it - that the IT system of financial institutions is a national security interest everywhere in Europe; it cannot be managed by a Hungarian National Bank, which considers itself independent of the government, it cannot be managed by any ministry, but it is managed by national security ministries. If there was such a thought, was it rejected? Is there any further such thinking of making these IT systems secure and national security high-security, and when would you like to do so in order to avoid this? I'll keep going. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-04-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-04-23	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor because it is true that you can see in the report what kind of spending was and what various amounts have been spent which, I think, have shuddered the mood of the entire Hungarian population. That is because it is possible to see that there must be some good things, such as education, the development of talent, which can be important in one direction, and I think that it would be difficult to argue with. However, I would certainly argue why a segment within education, even if it was tried to be defined on the basis of professional guidelines, was tried to manage only one segment of it. The amount of money used for this purpose could have been spent from the fund of talent to its peak. Why am I saying this? We see that, by the way - and you have seen money being spent on, what money should be spent on - that in Hungary there is less and less money for talent management and that it affects fewer children; whether it is elementary school, high school or college student or college student. Speaking of extra money, because we're talking about extra money in the case of the National Bank, I think that talent management should have started from the point of view of what kind of scholarship schemes could be developed in primary schools in order to make it much easier for people who can't spend much money on it in high school or even in university, because their family finances won't allow it. Therefore, I think that the involvement of education is truly welcome on one side, and on the other, I say that it is unthinkable and that it cannot be well defined why it was done this way. But I would go further in the field of education, because many times the government says - and I can agree with that - that it is an important tool now that kindergarten care is free of charge from the age of 3. However, there is no condition for all these children to be able to get to kindergarten. And if we're going to say that the MNB is buying castles or various properties, why not try to deal with the basic situation where children in kindergarten, for example, in Borsod, Szabolcs or in Baranya, are able to increase the number of preschool seats? Because I think that it would be a noble goal, and it would be a noble gesture if the Hungarian National Bank had been able to manage this out of the large amount of money that it intended for education, because then I would say that it would try to create a financial impact on all of Hungary that is good and acceptable to all the layers, but you did not do so, but chose a segment of support. Therefore, if I go further and narrow down the target groups, it can be said that I do not see the resources for Roma education here either, although we do see that if the MNB has such noble, charitable activities, then try to move in the direction of trying to put the most disadvantaged, the poor and the Roma in a position to support it with a special scholarship. I know the answer is that we don't want to separate these two, but there are target groups that are worth targeting. I am thinking of the poor and the Roma, that this would certainly be the task of the Hungarian National Bank if it spent such an amount on education. But if I look further and I say that not only at buying a piano, not only at buying paintings and buying real estate, but also at paying or other costs, I could also say why the Hungarian National Bank is not trying to deal with the situation that can be found and done today in Hungarian health care, that simply if we say nothing more than the structural development of hospitals, which has emerged in the media in recent days, what unblessed conditions there are in different hospitals, and that is not what the Hungarian National Bank is planning, although it could do if it said that there are amounts that it uses in its own way, then why not - a rhetorical question, of course, because I know that the Hungarian population is not getting an answer - the Hungarian National Bank is planning for improvements and hospital reconstructions that would be worth the total population of Hungary. And you allow these people, who are, by the way, lying in hospitals like you can see in many cases, to continue to do so, to continue to do so, I think it is absolutely depressing for Hungarian society. But if I stay in health care, I'll tell you that you can see what a queue there is and what waiting lists there are for cancer patients. [[12.20]] Why don't you try to develop instrumentality in different hospitals in order to reduce waiting lists, and why spend this money on paintings, pianos, and buildings? If you are saying that the Hungarian National Bank is so profitable, then I think that you should really see public goals, and the purchase of machinery and equipment in hospitals can be very important, because we can see where the Hungarian health care industry is, and with the money that is now at the disposal of health care, you cannot handle this problem. I think that when it comes to cancer patients or serious patients, you cannot do what you do or can do, but it is not good for the population of Hungary to see money spent, which is not invested in health care or education, but in the purchase of pictures and paintings. As a result, I think that the management of the Hungarian National Bank should consider what it will continue to spend the resources that are very important. They have told me several times and I can list the problems that are present in Hungary, but I do not want to mention it, because you have Hungary's social map in front of you, and you can push to any point at any time and say that we support this, because this can be important in Hungary's development. Then they would support the Hungarian population, because the social situation that is today in Hungary clearly requires that it should not be a waste of money and money, but that they should try to get targeted money where it is needed. Therefore, you have a very big responsibility in this regard. But they also have a great responsibility - I think what they say is very important and I think it is a good thing - that the growth credit programme has been launched from your sources. You probably know the numbers, and I've looked into it myself, and in the growth credit program, they were able to support about 20-25 percent of entrepreneurs. Once again, 20-25 percent of entrepreneurs, and I also see that in 2015 they want to start new constructions, so that as many people try to get into this system, because so far a lot of people have been out of this credit facility. I have asked many entrepreneurs in the last two days, and the construction that was launched in 2015 does not allow them to participate in the credit programme. Therefore, the growth credit programme that has been announced can be said to be good on paper, but it cannot really reach entrepreneurs, because if it reaches only 20-25 percent of the small and medium-sized enterprise layer, then this is a very big problem, because I think that every business needs different credit schemes, but when they try to start embedding this credit scheme over several months, they realize at the end that they have failed, and they can start again from then on, or their business needs to be terminated. As a result, I think that in 2015 the year is slowly passing, and they need to see what the problem is, which is why this loan scheme has so to say not worked. Once again, I very much agree with the aim of you, because it is very important to support small and medium-sized enterprises, but I do perceive and see from the set of figures that you have failed to reach entrepreneurs in the way you wanted or wanted to be supported by entrepreneurs themselves. Therefore, there is room for action on this issue. Back to spending money, I think I need to say one more thought. My fellow Members have said many times how little money is spent on child poverty, child hunger. I thought it was very important that when the Hungarian National Bank spent the money that - I dare allow myself - was a waste of money, then I think that they should have given their name to eradicate child hunger, because from then on they might have been able to do good for a very large number of children, up to 400-500 thousand children, and especially parents. As a result, you could have made a very large contribution to the stitching of the social network. One more thing. When I spoke about Roma in a sentence, I had to go to the Roma issue with a few more thoughts. You really don't see it, and you don't want to see it from the palace where you live, where you spend money, how big the problem is, for example, with the Roma population. There are national governments today, and the national governments - dear Vice-President, you know - operate from almost 230 thousand forints in one year. So in one year, the state gives HUF 230,000 to the operation of the national governments. From this, it is impossible to implement programmes from which integration could be launched. And this is not just about the Roma, it is about the 13 taxative minorities, nationality, who cannot add 5-10 million forints or up to 100 million forints to their source every day, so that their educational program, their catching up program or their talent development program can succeed. Therefore, I think it is ridiculous and pathetic that they have to farm 230,000 forints a year to achieve an integration goal. Why do you not notice from the glass palace that these groups, nationalities, need help and support in order for you and us to be better in Hungary as a whole? I think that all of these should be noticed, because, once again, if you are trying to spend it buying paintings, pianos and buildings, I have not been able to decide in the last few days whether or not the taxpayers' money is being spent, but if it is a public company or a public company, then there can be no other than public funds that should be used in the public interest to achieve the broadest possible levels of money you spend. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-04-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will be repeated speeches. I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-04-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Members, first of all, I must say very sadly that the National Bank of Hungary has not reported to the Parliament for several years; now György Matolcsy will give his own speech, then he will not wait for what the opposition will react to this, what other parties' representatives will say, but the President of the Central Bank will go away elegantly, and he will go home; now the members of the Government Coalition, having spoken on their behalf, will simply withdraw from this debate. Only opposition representatives comment on the debate on the National Bank of Hungary, even though we covered several areas of the National Bank of Hungary in detail. In this regard, we have made very specific professional objections, we have made important comments, but there is not a single Member on the part of the Government Coalition who would be able to express himself at all in this debate. Of course, it is also possible for the vice-president of the Central Bank, who is now replacing György Matolcsy after his departure, to take part in the debate - the house rules allow you to do so - but he does not agree. In the end, you will obviously tell us why the opposition is wrong about these points, but this is not going to get the debate going. I think it is very important to clarify the amazing role disorder that our fellow socialists are suffering from. Fellow Members, I promise you that what we have just heard from my socialist fellow Member, that the profits of the Hungarian National Bank should be devoted to the education of Gypsies, I will tell my besties in Borsod and Szabolcs to make compulsory teaching material at their own residential forums, tell them that the MSZP wants to use the profits of the Hungarian National Bank for the education of Gypsy children. This is the cheapest populism that happens on the part of the MSZP, trying to continue to please Gypsy voters by wanting to spend an amazing amount of public money on them. My fellow Member, what you have told me will be a curriculum, believe me, and then at the Citizens' Forums of Jobbik. We will tell people how the MSZP wants to spend this money. I also think it is important to say that, when we put it out - which was shown in the accounts - the annual operating cost of the central bank increased by HUF 20 billion compared to 2012, which is an amazing increase, we should say something about this. You can see that the salaries have been greatly increased, as they are now able to earn significantly more money than the two million HUF salary, which was previously considered to be an unscrupulously high one, and the average salary is 900 thousand HUF, and some central bank managers are not rarely earning 5 million HUF. [[12.30]] This obviously contributes to Hungarian taxpayers paying HUF 20 billion more for the operation of the central bank, since when the central bank accounts for its profits, the budget should in principle pay, but this is not what is happening. It is also important to see that no response has been made to the failure that the central bank has committed and what we have established from the other side. Now, technically, the government doesn't even try to apologize. What's this about? The 1300 employees of the central bank are unable to check two dozen companies for years, with a brokerage scandal involving HUF 360 billion in financial damage, and Fidesz not only learns from this, but also honors the outstanding professional work of the former head of financial supervision, Károly Szász, on 15 March. In the middle of the brokerage scandal, fellow Members. It's just amazing what can happen in this country. I also think it is important to say that when László Windisch, Vice-President of the MNB responsible for financial supervision, expressed his professional objections at the meeting of the Economic Committee, and proposed to the Parliament how to prevent the broker scandal next time, what measures, such as increasing personal responsibility for the heads of bank managers and brokers, should be taken, for example, to ensure that these companies are subject to mandatory supervision more than five years ago, and I will not mention it any further; he has listed measures that I have been able to demonstrate in September 2010 that I have already made a written proposal for these measures in the Parliament, and I have made proposals for amendments to the Financial Supervision Act, but the Fidesz MEPs have voted these proposals in a grand coalition with the MSZP. You said no to this in a great coalition. And as a result, the damage caused by the brokerage scandal could have been HUF 360 billion. If the representatives of Fidesz and MSZP acted more wisely, hundreds of billions of HUF could have been saved for Hungary by accepting my amendments. That's not what happened. In this case Hungary lost, and the government started an amazing explanation, of course it blamed political responsibility on the previous ones, as the socialists blamed the previous, even fidesz government, when they governed. Thus, there is no continuous pointing, no accounting. I would also like to receive an answer from the Hungarian National Bank that there has been a virtually HUF 200 billion fictitious bond issue at Quaestor, a single company: how can it be that a company over which the Hungarian National Bank is supposed to have financial supervision does not notice that there is a fictitious bond issue exceeding HUF 200 billion? I ask the fellow Members whether there is a person who believes that the apology of such a HUF 200 billion item is a natural process at the Hungarian National Bank. Is there anyone who thinks it wasn't a professional failure? However, no one takes responsibility for this. The government finds that, of course, it is not their fault, but the previous ones, although the Hungarian National Bank gave Quaestor permission to issue bonds. This management gave Quaestor permission from the Hungarian National Bank to issue a bond in 2014. It was also a very important excuse for us to propose that anti-cyclical economic policy cannot be supported by the large-value real estate purchased by the central bank, which György Matolcsy now accumulates in an increasing number. Nearly every week, there will be another purchase of a billion-dollar castle or other luxury estate. When we said that, in the spirit of countercyclical economic policy, these could not be used to achieve economic recovery, because the price of real estate is falling into the depths of an economic crisis, neither the government nor the central bank's management simply makes any reference to this. The question is, of course, that it is very difficult to explain these professional arguments. I also think it is important to say that when we are talking about the growth credit programme, and we find on the ground of the figures that there has been a credit change, so the already creditworthy companies have received a new loan thanks to the Hungarian National Bank, with a much lower interest rate of 2.5 per cent, no wonder that the growth credit programme, since it basically extends only to companies that have already been creditworthy and creditable, has not fulfilled its historical role, has not been able to significantly boost Hungarian economic growth. If you look at 2009 as a relationship, you couldn't stop lending from going down in Hungary. The share of corporate loans decreased compared to 2009, the central bank's growth credit programme temporarily halted this decline, but compared to 2009 there is virtually a deep-flying corporate loan. I also think it is important that about 18-20 percent of both corporate loans and residential loans have fallen into credit, which neither the government nor the central bank's management has anything to do with managing it. The government didn't basically help debt lenders in trouble, not on people who couldn't pay their foreign exchange loans, but on people who had the highest income and were able to pay their debts in the form of repayments. These objections have therefore not been answered by the government, the representatives of the government will not speak in this debate, the management of the central bank will also be silent, so, Mr President, there is nothing to be done, without a debate partner, I think we will be forced to close today's meeting. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-04-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group.
u2015-11-04-27	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In order not to close today's session without debate, I would therefore like to argue with my fellow Member. It seems that Jobbik will show its teeth when it says that it would rather be a waste of money than try to use those funds to support the poor. What I said was that I asked the poor, including the Roma, to use this word several times, and to use those funds for Roma students. If this is a problem for Jobbik, there is only one problem because they will not be able to campaign populistly, because there will be a Roma intellectual in 5-10-15 years for the Roma who will no longer believe what Jobbik says. As a result, they may be in pain. And I say that if Hungary wants to move forward in Hungary today, it will spend money on integration, on Roma education and education for the poor. I think that there can be no problem for Jobbik either - if he says that Roma education is important to them, too, they have said so many times - they say that if there is such a waste of money, they should rather use it for the education of the Roma and the poor, because then you can see that there is an intellectual layer within the Roma, with whom you can argue, with whom you can argue, who can increase this country. If I have a fellow Member against this, then I think it is very wrong, because progress should not be stopped, even among Roma students and students. I think it doesn't matter if it's the Jobbik or anyone, but this thing should be handled. I say today that yes, if it is a waste of money, it is education for the Roma and the poor, for health care, as I said, and it cannot be separated there, because anyone can be sick to use these money for a good purpose. It is possible to argue in this, but I think that the Hungarian Socialist Party and I say that the resources for which we do not see that they have been used well should be put to good use. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-04-28	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Member János Volner, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-04-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I will summarize the party's position on the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's profit and loss accounts. The Hungarian National Bank shares the view of the government coalition that this money should be used for the purchase of castles and art, as well as for the renovation of the purchased castles and luxury estates. [[12.40]] The government spends more than HUF 200 billion on this purpose through the Pallas Athena Foundations. The government therefore considers this solution to be a good solution, the purchase and renovation of luxury estates. And the Socialist Party would basically use this money for gypsies. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: And to the poor.]] On the other hand, Jobbik says that neither 200 billion forints should be spent on luxury estates, nor do gypsies have to spend this money. This amount must be used for the benefit of the whole country, because if the State, as the 100% owner of the Hungarian National Bank, wants to exercise ownership rights, it must have an impact on what the Hungarian National Bank will do with its positive result and in Hungarian with the profit. If the Central Bank Act 166. In accordance with the provisions of Section 2 of the Act on the clearance of accounts, the budget will receive this money and we can decide on the use of it. For example, I would welcome it if the quality of Hungarian health could be improved with this money, but the Parliament will have to decide this here in a debate, not to decide behind closed doors whether he will be right, and we will buy castles with money, or the wishes of MSZP representatives, and we will use this money for Gypsies. I think it would be good for the Parliament to continue to define the budget, and we should consider a lasting, sustainable increase in people's well-being. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-04-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-11-04-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member Volner, there is no need to run ahead - you are far from governing at any time! And for that, I think the knowledge you possess is not enough to sum up everyone's opinions here. You know theirs, presumably, but you don't know anyone else's. In addition, to keep a summary of which does not summarize what is said, and that is not very elegant. Now, I would like to add one more sentence to this matter: you know, there are certain social tensions in every period. I think that the job of a current government and a responsible opposition is on the one hand to deal with the social tensions that have arisen, but it is much better to prevent them from developing in a preventive way. In other words, I believe that resources and money invested in education are not unnecessary, but essential and necessary, and especially in the area where people and children are in a vulnerable position to catch up with this knowledge. This is about the poorer half of Hungary, it is about the fact that in the case of people who are born and forced to grow up in families where, in terms of material goods, they are not at the same level as the children of the employees of the Hungarian National Bank, social solidarity and the kind of source insurance that provides the opportunity to acquire knowledge are absolutely necessary. In this regard, whether we want to say it or deny it, Gypsy children suffer a certain disadvantage in this sense. I would not start researching the fact that, because of the inadequate management of society, of its own fault, of anything else, the reality is the reality. One word as a hundred: the Hungarian Socialist Party says in this respect that any person who is in a situation that is practically more difficult to live his life than would be needed to live his life in a normal way, especially in terms of acquiring knowledge, but we agree that it is also the duty of the current government to provide health services. Back to Magyar Nemzeti Bank's report and report: obviously price stability, ensuring financial stability and supporting Hungarian economic policy are essential because of the basic task. We have no quarrel with them; that is not what we are discussing. Our debate is that, in addition to all of this, or in the absence of these, the past years are basically about wasting money. I will not start repeating what I have said in terms of real estate, movable property and many other things, but I would just like to say that we have a problem if you view public money as such or if you see it as a profit from public money - placed in a quotation mark - it is considered to be yours, and if there is a loss, it is distributed to society, to people, but it is used in the way that you want, no matter what property or property is bought from it, and it is not the measures for the benefit of the far-reaching majority of society. I concluded with my previous speech that it would be worth looking at the development of competitiveness and investment intentions, as well as the development of gross domestic product, GDP. The rate of growth was 3.5 to 3.6 percent a good half a year ago; we can see that this process is primarily due to the positive external circumstances of 2014. It was a good year for agriculture, the price of natural gas, oil and money market was halved, so there was plenty of money in the markets, and we can also see that GDP is slowing down, slowing down, and not moving towards the promise that you have made over the past few years. They say that the Hungarian National Bank has stepped forward, now, in the days, and has set up a programme to strengthen GDP growth in 2016 - perhaps Matolcsy here in Parliament would have had some thoughts about this, not about taking action and doing such a thing, but about what is really going on behind it, what will happen, which, by the way, will provide an additional 1 percent increase in GDP growth, and will ensure that we remain on the growth path above 3 per cent in this respect. We also know Matolcsy's statements about the budgets, when there is 2.5 percent on the written paper, 2 percent in two months, and 1-1.5 percent in reality. So, you can't believe the promises made in the type of announcements, quotes, behind which you can't see the content that has been achieved. One word as a hundred: there are problems with credibility in this sense - in my eyes at least - concerning Mr Matolcsy. I have to come back with a thought that, as promised, I will also be able to examine the employment part competences of the past period, that this story is okay in the National Bank, because the average income level of 600 thousand HUF is now above 900 thousand HUF, so it is okay there. I could also say that on this basis it would probably be a good idea for György Matolcsy to start thinking about taking over Hungary's schools, healthcare institutions, kindergartens and any institution where people want to get 50 percent higher average income. But this comment is pesky, because it is clearly clear to everyone that György Matolcsy is unable to do so; he is able to strengthen the income base of his own moonyard, obviously with government assistance. I would therefore like to say that what is in this regard is contradictory; it is contradictory, because you despise and ignore the vast majority of society in this regard, leaving it in a vulnerable position while you are rich in wealth. With regard to the growth credit programme - back to that - I am only confirming that unfortunately, these sources and sources do not appear where they should be. As I said, the 2-3% rate for micro-enterprises is clearly not sufficient, and it did not bring the yield increase you expected from it. [[12.50]] It has brought a one-tenth increase in yield compared to - 10 percent - which is why you are going to try to find a new one instead of another, to forget the old one, and to invent a new one. Obviously, their promises are always for a given period of time, and then they would like to forget them and come into Parliament with new promises. I personally do not wish to assure you that I will leave you alone in this regard. I will always remind you of your basic promises. One is the radical tax reduction promise, you know, the beer mat story; the other is one million new jobs in the economy. Well, that's what I promised to give you a few more thoughts about that. Look, if, after six years - and we experience this day after day in the walls of Parliament - you are still dealing with the things of the eight years before six years, then I will be so kind to you that I will, in a sense, even do so. In terms of employment policy, it was the worst year of eight years, so for us the worst position was in 2009, when 3 million 717 thousand people in the 15-64-year-old population in Hungary were the average number of people employed each year. 2014 is the best year for the next five years. So I take the worst out of eight years of our time, I take the best out of five years of your period, 2014, when the employment rate of the same age group is 4 million 70 thousand for the 15-64-year-old population. This shows that there were 353 thousand more employees in your best year than in our worst year. Reality, on the other hand, is something quite different. The reality is that, compared to 2009 in public employment, 160 thousand more people are quasi employed - as if they were employed - and then driven abroad. It's Matolcsy, isn't it? Matolcsy said - he didn't just say that two or three years ago - that 500,000 people are abroad, because your economic policy-helping activity has led people to life that they are refugees from here, especially from the working age and younger generation. So, these people, who do work not more than a year ago, are included in Hungarian statistics. So you chase them away, but they still improve Hungarian statistics. Now there's about 120,000 of them in these statistics. At the time, in 2009, there were about 20-25 thousand, 100 thousand more. If it wasn't for more, I'd add these two numbers, 260,000 already, but I'll definitely add one more. With regard to the provisions of the Labour Code and other laws, you are, as an example, appearing in 2009 and present, not counting student work, work within the framework of a school cooperative, now these people are present in the labour market with between 150 and 200 thousand people in a given year, counting them into statistics. And I can tell you a lot more. These three figures represent an order of 450,000 people, with an employment increase of 353 thousand people being accounted for and say that the situation is better. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not a better situation, unfortunately, but I can safely say it's worse. From your promise of creating a million new jobs in the economy, you have not achieved anything, you can talk about stagnation with jobs in the economy and not lying numbers - 332,000 more people in the economy - on media platforms. It's like when posters were posted, the minimum wage was rising, and they all know how the minimum wage went. What I want to say to you is that if you are already in employment, you have been thrown out of the care systems as far as unemployment is concerned - a three-month supply term instead of nine months - and I will add two fundamental factors that you need to know, but you will also deny yourself that a very large proportion of the public workers are out of the unemployed. So it's obvious that you've reduced this. A very large percentage of refugees and economic refugees from abroad are registered unemployed. So it's not the result of your good work, but it's the result of the negative work, quoted in quotes, that brings down unemployment. If we counted the refugees and the public benefit groups abroad rightly, and calculated the rate, unemployment, according to the measured data of the HCSO, we would be around 11 percent, approximately 1 percent worse than in the period of the change of government. But one more important thing about employment and wages. You, who have reduced the purchasing power of public workers' wages by one third over the past period, you, who have raised the gross wage for the minimum wage to the sky, have burdened employers and employees with a minimum wage of 4-5 thousand forints, while giving people a minimum wage of less than 4-5 thousand forints; you, who did not change the civil servants' salary base with a single penny six years ago, are still 36 850 forints; you, who even want to eliminate or eliminate the minimum institutional system and category of living, will not show from 2013 onwards, because you do not want to show people how the scissors open between the actions in the lowest income range and the incomes of the minimum and the rich, do not talk much about these issues. Especially when scissors are now open in the sense that 80% of those who can earn income earn 48 percent of their income, who can earn income, 5 percent of them earn 24 percent of their income. So what I'm trying to say is that the torsos are huge. Of course, everything is fine within the framework of the Hungarian National Bank. More than a hundred, try to provide people with decent living opportunities and wages that provide jobs and livelihoods, instead of increasing the amount of these funds by 50-60 percent within the framework of the Hungarian National Bank. They serve the pals, the pereputee, I ask you not to do that, they serve the vast majority of people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-04-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2015-11-04-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I have stopped my previous speech at the broker scandals, and I would like us to be able to go through this point by point, and we can remind ourselves how the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank stands in this, where should we look for the kind of responsibility that you, by the way, consider your own great added value in this matter, that you have exposed it - how did Antal Rogán say that? - the broker scandal of the century. Compared to that, we'll see what happened. The fact that the money of DRB's bank depositors disappeared in February 2015 was completely coincidental, and then Buda-Cash collapsed on 9 March. A meeting of the Economic Committee was immediately initiated on this subject, where we thought at the time that we would resolve that committee meeting with a question of interpretation. You said that the Fidesz majority said that it was only possible to go out every five years and check the brokerage companies, and then we were able to devote an entire committee meeting on 9 March to deciphering the difference between the words "at most" and "at least." The law doesn't say that you have to go out every five years at the most, but it says that you have to go out to these companies at least every five years and you have to check them out. It can also obviously mean that you could have gone out every day, but you must go out once every five years for sure. I believe that, in the time when this came into the law, it was voted in the same way on the other side. On the other hand, this law has been touched many times since then, the last time it was touched was when the PSZF and the MNB merged in 2013, but it was not possible to highlight this error at that time, but it was not possible to do so in 2013 with a two-thirds Fidesz majority, if that is the case, to clear it up, it was not possible to solve this mistake, and now it was tried to pin this on us in March this year. [[13.00]] This is ridiculous after all these years of government. It is also ridiculous that, in the meantime, this law has been amended several times - but not yet - but I am very pleased that, within the framework of a committee meeting, my fellow Members with Fidesz managed to decipher the difference between the words "at most" and "at least". By the way, the bad news came the next day, and a brief announcement at 9:30 that night. The next morning, on 10 March, we also had to hold an economic committee meeting, where László Windisch, Vice-President of the MNB, with a wonderful performance - because then perhaps even many of us believed that he was able to learn about the problems at Quaestor, too - so to speak, with wide-open eyes and sometimes close voice, that a large company seemed to have issued a lot of fictitious bonds. It is basically impossible to over-note those bonds, to issue too many unfunded bonds that Quaestor also made, and then the facts came up in this case, which revealed what the MNB had done, what the MNB could have done, and why its responsibility would have stopped. Let's start with Buda-Cash first. You should have known exactly, and I have referred to the level of problems at Buda-Cash since 17 September 2010. On your website, the MNB's website, I trust, even in the spirit of transparency, a decision on 17 September 2010, signed by Károly Szász on the date, containing the results of the investigation, which concludes that there is one in it that the capital adequacy ratio for these companies should always be at the level set by law. This is a very polite request that, either during the period considered or during the investigation period, this capital adequacy ratio is unlikely to have been adequate. In addition, this Decision draws attention to the need to correct the shortcomings of the IT system and to the shortcomings of the IT system that do not allow it to be traced when it entered the IT system, and to the error of logging, the error of tracing back, and accordingly, if we do not know who and what it has done, it is not even possible to monitor in this IT system when it has done so. Now, in a company this size, in a financial service provider as big as Buda-Cash, these are insufferable things, and I think that in 2010 was an appropriate statement. You and even the State Audit Office of Financial Institutions provided for what should be done, that an internal audit plan should be prepared, that the IT system should be made transparent, and that, while this internal audit plan and the IT system are not designed in accordance with the law, this company should report to the State Audit Office of Financial Institutions on a continuous basis every six months. However, this company did not collapse in 2010, but after that, on 9 March 2015. I would like to ask what the result of this examination was. How did you examine the deficiencies identified by the investigation, whether they were restored? The errors of the IT system have been corrected, and if so, how could what appeared in the newspapers be that Buda-Cash did not have fictitious bonds, but what were they? They were fictitious clients, Mr. Vice President. How can it happen if a six-month reporting obligation is imposed, if they require that the IT system, such as the administrative entitlement, should be corrected and that this is not done in accordance with the law? In the Quaestor case, the situation is even more interesting, because, compared to László Windisch's wide-open eyes, he sometimes told us what happened the night before, on 9 March, and it soon turned out that in October the previous year the decision was signed with his signature, the license in the Hungarian National Bank that Quaestor could issue corporate bonds. No one followed it - as with the Financial Institutions' Public Supervisory Service - and no one followed you now that the Quaestor has issued a bond of HUF 60, 160 or 260 billion. The Quaestor has managed to do this in front of you, and you have failed to follow it, while you have been sitting in the Quaestor offices from November 2014, sitting there and examining it. I asked the Minister of National Economy - I open a parenthesis, he never answers me for inexplicable reasons, but always the Minister of Justice, sometimes the Minister of Justice answers my letter to Viktor Orbán, and I have never written a letter to Viktor Orbán, so much about the order of the administration now, closed by parentheses - but they do not answer these questions, yet they do not answer me what kind of test results the general and very comprehensive investigation started in January 2015 at Quaestor, which started in November 2014, after which two months is a non-small group of companies, disappearing 220 billion forints, collapses. What was the result? Why didn't you do your job, and how could it be that on March 10th, László Windisch, with his wide-open eyes and a close voice, said that they sold much more bonds than they gave permission, the MNB, personally signed by him? As you sit outside, you check, only God knows what, and with what result, and in the process, people's money disappears. Of course, I think it's another matter that Parliament has passed a law on the compensation of these victims, where I think it's quite malign that the ready-paying guarantee has not been included, and, of course, you're complying with the law now, and you're not giving credit to the base of the Quaestor-damaged because you don't see it as a return. They're being very, very careful right now. Otherwise, they would have acted equally carefully from November 2014 to January 2015, I think we could have done much better. One more thing about what else happened in front of you. After that, representatives of the Hungarian National Bank, but a lot of Fidesz representatives and members of the Economic Commission said that there was such profit going on here, these people brought their money to Quaestor in the hope of huge interest, Mr. Vice President, but I could also ask the members of the Economic Committee: how did you not notice the interest that Quaestor offers when it's written out with bigger numbers than I do, by the way, every Quaestor office throughout the country today has been advertised everywhere in the country, so how did you not realize that this is so risky? By the way, I'm just gonna put that aside, and I can accept that someone's taking a risk, and they're taking a risk. To steal your money, to steal your money in front of you, I don't think anyone can accept it, and I don't think in a rule of law that can be accepted. I can suggest that when you're checked, you do it with your eyes open, but if you're on the street, you do it with your eyes open, because you're exposed to the numbers that are bigger than me, even I was able to memorize 6.55 percent of it. And with the words that these people profited, because Quaestor's biggest client is the Hungarian government. The Hungarian government kept the most money there. By the way, I can also imagine that the person who probably knew the most about Quaestor's affairs was the one who kept the most money there. I can imagine that, too. I can also imagine that if a company with a liquid reserve of 5.5 billion quickly withdraws almost 4 billion, it will be ruined. I can imagine that, but I can't imagine how, after that, you will manage to marvel at the world around you with a wonderful performance as much as László Windisch did on March 10th. [[13.10]] Returning from the broker scandals to the definition of general principles and to the definition of general criticisms, these cases also clearly show that the kind of leadership and the kinds of procedures, standards and protocols you make up are inadequate, and this incompetence leads us to hear international criticisms about corruption eating growth, about the intransparency of Hungarian economic regulation, the regulatory system and therefore they do not come here. The tax system is unpredictable, the tax system which, despite its pride on the Fidesz side, we always step down a step or two in the competitiveness indicator in Europe, always one or two places back in Europe, because we have a type of tax system and lower public confidence. These cases, in which the MNB is unable to recognise its own responsibility, such as broker scandals, where it does not raise its word and does not say to the government that I ask you nicely, it is in the interests of the Hungarian people, but perhaps it is in the interests of the Hungarian people to have transparent relations, to have a competitive tax system in Hungary and to carry out the task of the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions in such a way as to safeguard public confidence. Do not hide from the responsibility, if you receive a letter, answer it, if you are asked, stand up and answer, not least that if you have failed, I think if you have failed, you should acknowledge this mistake and compensate, because you do not notice what you have not noticed, I think you might have accidentally missed it, and I would not prejudicate it here, but it is very difficult to accidentally miss it in this case. Believe me, public trust, if it doesn't exist, affects the real economy, and we feel that in Hungary today. There are only public employees, there is no international capital here, and Hungarian capital cannot be created because there is no trust in the Hungarian government, there is no confidence in Hungarian economic policy, and therefore there is no job creation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-04-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2015-11-04-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members present, Unfortunately, as the colleagues reported here, and I was able to follow Mr Matolcsy's report - in front of the TV screen - unfortunately today he did not make us rejoice with a colorful thought and a sentence, today the red dots on the bottom of the dolls or the good sayings that the Internet does not actually affect Hungarian society significantly, but perhaps these sentences could have made it more colorful and would have contributed to the real matolcsyzmus in connection with a comment. By the way, I share what my fellow Members have repeatedly said, but it is worth saying again and again, in case anyone has not heard from the television viewers, that, indeed, György Matolcsy does not want to hear this debate, he came here and said what he thought and then left quickly. You must have more important things to do than to take part in the debate on your own-led institution, or to pay attention to what Members say, especially opposition representatives, because, after the speech of the main speakerial round, Fidesz has actually stepped out of the debate, and it seems that you do not really want to defend what Matolcsy is doing, which I understand, because what is happening in the Hungarian National Bank is very difficult to protect in many cases even from a pro-government side. Nevertheless, what I would like to say in the midst of many criticisms of opposition is that the growth credit programme announced by the Hungarian National Bank is not a bad idea. So it is worth saying from the opposition side that I believe that the initiative itself was a positive, forward-looking initiative. I hope that the National Bank will analyse the reasons why the anticipated results did not come, because, if I remember correctly, they were hoping for a 1.5-2 percent increase in GDP from this programme, which, at first glance, did not seem completely unrealistic, but based on the current results, it can be seen that if I am not wrong in the figures, it was about a tenth of that, a 0.2 percent effect that this programme could actually generate. I would therefore like to ask the National Bank and the economic policies to analyse the reasons for this, and we hope that the new programme announced today by the National Bank may, if I recall correctly, try to explain its impact from the experience of the previous programme. What we have been trying to draw attention to in this debate - and of course, if anyone wants to do so, they can misunderstand, as did the right-hand colleague, who suspects some kind of Gypsy policy and Roma policy behind every MSZP proposal - we have basically tried to refer to the comments that the Hungarian National Bank has actually spent almost 1 percent of GDP on cases that are not needed to carry out the activities of the Hungarian National Bank in the past 1.5-2 years. Everyone has already analysed in detail what artifacts they are buying now, what real estates, where they are moving the money, which foundation and what kind of Matolcsy cousins have any or part to do with it, so many people have already talked a lot about it, so I wouldn't waste any time, but the fact and the fact is that these resources do not need to be spent on the normal functioning of the Hungarian National Bank. That is why we have said that these funds would be useful and useful in many places, their role in improving efficiency, whether it be economic policy, whether it be the small and medium-sized enterprises, whether it be that the country should be set on a sustainable growth path. Nándor Gúr said that the good GDP indicators that characterized Hungary last year were essentially due to one-off effects on many sides, and all forecasts say that this year and next year the growth of the Hungarian economy will slow down, while it would be an essential political, economic policy and social goal to have a sustainable economic growth path and a growing, real employment that characterizes Hungary in such a way that it also represents decent wages, wages and income for the people working there. So in Hungarian, we would be partners if the Hungarian National Bank were looking for ways and solutions to a sustainable development path and an employment-enhancing policy, but also to ensure price stability. Of course, as many of my colleagues have said, this kind of waste of money that the Matolcsy central bank is carrying on is unacceptable to us too. We respect cultural values and architectural values as well as property elements, but we do not believe that it is the task of the Hungarian National Bank to deal with this and to spend any resources, public money or not public money. And once again, colleagues - let me repeat that the right-wingers understand, so in Hungarian - have made various proposals from health care to education to employment, what could be spent on, because we think it would be more useful and a better use of these resources. Perhaps one thing has not yet been mentioned, and I would like to suggest this to you, in the debates or comments of the past period, that is that there is a kind of tension between Mihály Varga and Matolcsy, so the operation of the Ministry of Economy and the Hungarian National Bank is not harmonious. This is interesting, because a former Minister of Economy, who was also a Fidesz representative, was placed as a party soldier at the head of the Hungarian National Bank. So the expectation was that even if the central bank was not independent, which is a big problem, at least one good government relationship with the governing party would be possible and therefore the cooperation between the National Bank and the Hungarian government would be more harmonious. Compared to this, we can see that this relationship is very stressful. Perhaps one of the most recent times, also highlighted in the press, received attention when Márton Nagy, Managing Director of the National Bank criticized the decisions of the government regarding the bank tax. As I understand it, the debate may have been about whether there should be conditions for reducing the bank tax or reducing the bank tax in a certain way or perhaps leading it out. I would add that I think that the one who said that it is worthwhile to impose conditions on the reduction of the bank tax in this debate, and I think that it is not a bad idea that banks which are more involved in boosting lending, whether in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, in larger infrastructure projects or in innovation, in research and development, should be given a greater advantage - all of which would be useful lending. So I merely wanted to draw the attention of those involved in the debate on the basis of another new aspect, that, indeed, the situation is the same as so many times during the governance of the last 25 years, that there is a tension between government economic policy and the policy of the Hungarian National Bank, and, as I see it, this is also a personal tension. [[13.20]] Last time, this led to Mihály Varga publicly criticizing the management of the National Bank in an interview, even saying that he would dismiss such colleagues if they were his colleagues, who dared to express such criticism after a government decision. I think that this is not good for the Hungarian economy, it is not good for Hungary, which is why it would be worth deciding this debate between the two cocky politicians in the home of Fidesz. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-04-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Nagy, Vice-President of the Monetary Council, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, I'll give you the floor, Mr. Vice President. There you go. You have the floor.
u2015-11-04-37	Thank you very much. Basically, I didn't write it down, I'm not a central banker who answers questions by describing the answer to you days before. I would like to answer all professional questions, honourable Members and ladies, on the other hand: ladies and gentlemen, of course, which are professional debates and, on professional matters, I think that it is better to have clarity. I don't think political issues have to go along with it. I'm not a politician, which is why I don't want to compete with you. With regard to economic policy in Hungary, I think that we should try to be proud that there is a balance situation in Hungary today, the budget deficit is below 3 per cent in proportion to GDP, public debt is falling, and while there is a equilibrium situation, Hungary can show a very good growth in 2014, even in 2015, and we hope that it will be able to show a very good growth in 2016. That's what we're working on. In addition to the fact that the central bank, which has only one goal to achieve the inflation target, which is 3 percent, needs to work to support the economic policy of the government, which in this case is the greatest possible growth. I think that everyone is sitting here to work on growth as much as possible, because that's when the country can get rich. I don't think there's much debate in this, or I hope there isn't much debate. In how the National Bank can contribute to this greater growth, there were suggestions, questions, question marks. In this regard, I can say that only the base rate has to be looked at and said: since 1924 there has not been such a low base rate in Hungary. 1.35 percent, that's the lowest base rate. Even if you don't have to go very far, you have to look at the yield curve, which shows the state's funding costs. This is important, much more important than anything else, because it is derived from the loan rate that the population or the corporate sector can borrow at a rate of one year, two years or three years. If you look at the sovereign return curve, the 3 month return is 0.75 percent, it has never been so low. If you look at the one-year return, which is 0.8 percent, it's never been this low. Or even if we look at returns of 3 years or 5 years, they have never been so low, and that is why today the population or the corporate sector can take credit at an unprecedented low level if they want to. Give me a time when interest rates have been so low in the last hundred years, okay? ! As a result, I think it is very clear what successes the central bank has achieved and how it can really contribute to growth. It is also a false claim that the growth credit programme contributed 0.5 percent - or 0.2 percent - to growth. As a result of the interest rate reduction and the growth credit programme, around 2 percentage points of GDP have been allocated to central bank programmes over the last two years. Let me tell you a very simple link, which I would like you to use: the 1 percent increase in corporate debt increases GDP by 0.2 percent in Hungary. The growth credit programme raised the corporate credit dynamic from minus 5 percent, i.e. from a 5 percent decline to 0.1 percent. Please multiply by 0.2, and it will come out as a 1 percent increase in GDP. That's how simple the calculation is, and you don't have to go very far, I think it's pure mathematics. The growth loan programme and the interest rate reduction added 1 percent to GDP. In the growth credit programme, when many people say that it has not reached the pace of lending to see a huge growth rate here, I would like to note that from 2008 to 2013, corporate credit has decreased by 5 percent annually. This was halted by the growth credit programme and then corporate loans increased at a rate of about 0.1 per cent and SME loans increased by 2 per cent. This is one of the things that if this had not happened, and I would like to talk about it sometimes, then how many companies would have gone bankrupt in Hungary without the growth credit programme. The growth loan programme reached 28,000 companies. If you look at the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, you have to say, on average, it was added to every fourth company, this 25 percent number was a good number, it was added to every four companies. This applies to medium-sized enterprises, this figure is a little higher for small companies, and we have reached 5-10 percent for micro-enterprises. At the same time, we have achieved a very, very wide corporate sector; much wider than EU funds, of which 15-20 percent have gone to economic development in recent years. A lot wider. The programme has helped the small, medium-sized sector very much and very much. It has also been said why no more money goes to agriculture. Here is a mistake: more than 40 percent of the growth credit programme went to agriculture and helped the agricultural sector, just the sector where the greatest hunger for credit was. In this connection, it was also considered that there is a dispute between the Hungarian National Bank and the Ministry of National Economy on how to restore corporate lending. I'm reporting no arguments. I think that the goals are the same, in the implementation as usual, there are debates, but these are professional debates, and I think that in the last three to four months, once it has come up, the media has inflated it, and I think that if you ask the staff of the National Bank or the staff of the Ministry of National Economy today, there is excellent consistency in working together to develop the programmes and, where appropriate, developing successful programmes. There's no such argument, please. As far as the outcome of the central bank is concerned, of course, the outcome of the central bank depends on a lot of things. There were things that were taken away, such as the issue of the exchange rate. The result of the central bank consists of three major parts, on the one hand, of interest, the result of the exchange rate and its operating result. A very significant part of this is the result of the interest rate, since the interest rate reductions have resulted in a significant improvement over the past period, so when we talk about the outcome of the central bank, we not only take out the exchange rate, but also the interest rate. There is no doubt that the exchange rate results of the central bank are also high. At the same time, the central bank has signed up, and this is his thinking that when it is positive, the management board of the central bank will decide when it has a negative result, and he will avoid this result, and if he cannot, he will be able to make up for it. As a result, the outcome of the central bank will never, ever charge the budget and the taxpayers' money. [[13.30]] In connection with central bank wages, operating expenses. Since the beginning of 2013, the number of management posts in the central bank has decreased substantially by 25 percent. Here were the numbers for the salaries. I don't know these numbers. At the same time, I'd like you to focus on the pay scale. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] Not the salary size, the wage weight. In a company's operating expenses, it's the salary that counts, not how much you make. This means proper farming. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Really?]] In this wage weight, once again, savings could be achieved by reducing the number of drivers. At the same time, it was also considered that operating costs had increased significantly. I would like to stress that, by merging supervision, a much larger institution was created here, with a lot more workers. This must be taken into account in any way. On the other hand, the functions and tasks of the central bank have been expanded in very, very many cases in recent years, such as the resolution arm, which required more people to be recruited. I think that the central bank can deal with any criticism of why the number of workers and the management of wages in this has taken place. In the case of foundations. We have repeatedly said that foundations are separate legal entities. As regards foundations, there is a curatorium, and in this curatorium there are professionals working at the National Bank. At the same time, most of the curatorium is made up of independent outside people, which is why [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: What is it independent of?]] it can be preserved so that the Board decisions can be taken independently. That's one thing. The other one. It is also wrongly claimed that the employees of the National Bank will receive their salary after their membership in the Board of Governors. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] They always give up on that. You can ask who will resign for what civil society organisation, and you'll be happy to share it if you do. I also resign for the benefit of such a civil society organization, which, by the way, supports sick children. It's about the foundation's investment. It also appears wrong here that the 250 billion is an accurate number. At the same time, foundations do not farm from the 250 billion, we have said this several times, but they farm from its interest rates, they farm from its annual returns. I ask you, when you look at how much the foundations spend on education, 250 billion is always multiplied by a yield figure, which is currently, say, around 3-4 percent, and it can be spent on the foundations for education every year. It's a smaller number in scale. Of course, 250 billion is always easier to throw, but returns are interesting. Another thing is how to keep 250 billion. If you gave me 250 billion to invest in, what would I invest in? What's the safest investment? And this is sovereign debt. Government debt is not a controlled decision to buy sovereign debt, but to preserve the integrity of wealth and put it in a safe place, we put it in sovereign debt. Another question is that if we consider in this yield risk map how we can bring higher returns at even lower risk. This is where real estate investments appear. So we should also look at this from this side. With regard to the Quaestor case, I believe that my central bank lead colleagues have answered this question several times. I consider it very fortunate that the central bank and supervision merged at the end of 2013. This gave us the opportunity to reveal such cases much sooner, such abuses, which, by the way, are not always relevant to a banking system, but are linked to the abuse of a brokerage company, so that an isolated people, which often appear in this sector, may be suspected of stealing. The fact that this information is given to you even more quickly by supervision and you see the accounts that you may have lost these papers from, we have initiated a legislative amendment in this direction, and I think that this is on the right track, a package that gives you information and tools to the central bank, which means that you can act even more effectively and prevent it. For example, you will never see supervision prevent such abuse very often in a preventive manner, because it does not get here, they will never pat the shoulder of supervision because they will not know what would have happened if. In this case, there have been abuses, once again, due to a lack of information and information sharing. [[Dr. László Kács: It turned out here!]] Changing the law, I think you can handle these things. Finally, let me say once again that the central bank has one goal and that is to push inflation and inflation for purpose. Monetary policy is the most important instrument in this regard. I think, if you value the functioning of the central bank and that it is right, you should look at this, whether you are working on it with all the assets of the central bank, whether you can achieve inflation with your interest rate policy and other instruments, and besides that, if that allows you to do so, it will help growth properly. These programmes should focus on the growth-enhancing part of the programme and on how the central bank can improve and help the government's economic policy, where appropriate by curbing returns. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-04-38	I thank Vice-President Martin the Great for his reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, Chairman of the Economic Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2015-11-04-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr Vice President, Madam Secretary! Fellow Members! Basically, the debate was clearly intended to be put on a political footing by the opposition. What came up on professional issues along the way, Mr Vice-President, has answered what I especially thank him for, because I believe that the operation of the central bank so far has also demonstrated that it is doing its work in a sensible and constructive way, in support of government economic policy, while keeping itself away from politics. I believe that this is why, as I said in the introduction, not only the central bank managed effectively in the 2013 and 2014 years, but the Hungarian budget's revenues were also above expectations, as the Hungarian economy has significantly exceeded the economic average of all European countries thanks to government decisions and government economic policy. Allow me to respond only to a few things, which, I repeat, were primarily political and not professional attacks. Mr. Vice President has already spoken about the pay. Indeed, it is necessary to examine in scale the differences in the current period of farming and in the previous period. Let me mention two things to you. András Simor, President of the Central Bank, who became President of the Central Bank with your decision, earned HUF 150 million a year, so his basic salary plus the premium was HUF 150 million. He also received this in 2012, which we are also discussing when the central bank closed by 40 billion million million million, and if he could have stayed in 2013, he would still have received it, despite the fact that the budget would have had to make up for 203 billion forints. So I think that, especially on the part of the Socialist Members, any such reproach is completely unfounded. I note that if I look at the wages of central bank staff in a European comparison, then, quite rightly, the wages of average workers at least belong to the middle field. This was served by the wage policy decision of the central bank's management to raise wages on the lower levels in order to keep talented young colleagues, but management wages are in the lower quarter of the EU average, or rather in the fifth. So I think that this is also a perfectly fair attitude: they did not raise the wages of the leaders, but the wages of the employees who helped the central bank to manage a successful and efficient economy through research-analysis work, various financial policy or monetary policy proposals. I do not understand the position of my fellow opposition Members that, as a result of the management of the Hungarian National Bank, public money would be created at the National Bank. [[13.40]] It is also stated in our Fundamental Law that the central bank is an independent institution, so it operates, and accordingly it owes the Parliament a report on its work, not by accident that it does not have a reporting obligation to the government. The separate central bank law - a fundamental law adopted by two thirds, adopted in 2013 - also provides for the conditions under which the Hungarian National Bank can operate and manage. To ask the National Bank why the funds generated as a result of farming are not used for the purchase of social institutions or for the purchase of health institutions, I simply cannot judge that. This has no basis for reality or rational basis, it is clearly guided by political intentions and a kind of desinification, misinformation of Hungarian society. Management of foundations. I fully agree with what Mr Vice-President has confirmed is that there is no possibility that the founder himself will interfere with the operation of a foundation. After all, this is the essence of the foundation's system, so that curators, independently of the fact that they cannot be recalled, manage a foundation based on their own decisions. It has also been said many times, but, of course, opposition representatives do not care that this 250 billion-dollar fortune, with which these foundations have been invested, cannot be spent. So it's a stable, existing and to be kept property, only every year, under all circumstances, the benefits of this, the incomes, the results that you can obtain in the management of wealth, which we've heard is about 3 percent of what we've heard is being spent in today's conditions. So I think there's some disinformation going on here too. For a year, the central bank was illegal, said Mr. András Schiffer. Again, I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the central bank does not have a supervisory board, while there is no influence on the central bank to have a supervisory board, because it does not choose... President György Matolcsy, if I remember correctly, has initiated at least two, or perhaps three, referrals to Parliament to have a supervisory board of the National Bank. The fact that opposition representatives could not agree to delegate one of them to a representative representing opposition parties in the supervisory board is not the fault of the central bank. Nor, for the record, this decision has not been made. The central bank had no influence or influence on this. Accordingly, I do not understand on what basis and how it was raised by my fellow Members. Overall, I therefore believe that the proposal of the Economic Committee is correct, and that the management of the National Bank in the 2013 and the 14th years is outstanding, in international comparison, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to acknowledge, despite all political attacks, that the professional operation of the Central Bank was impeccable. He was an effective farmer, and I think he did the tasks he was entrusted to him with maximum efficiency. I urge you to support the proposals of the Economic Committee's resolution. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[Adam Mirkóczki will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]]
u2015-11-04-40	Thank you, Mr President, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. I would also like to thank the Vice-President for his personal participation and for his answers. Thank you. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. It follows from the 2013 XXXVII on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. general debate on the amendment of laws and certain laws until closure. The government referral is T/6986. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Hornung, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-11-04-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I would like to present very briefly the package of the bill presented by the President, which proposes to amend three legislative proposals. Two of these are legislation that meets our EU obligations and reflects a Hungarian speciality. I would like to start with the XXXVII of 2013 implementing the automatic exchange of information in Hungary. a brief presentation of the law amending the law and its background. It is well known that the risk of cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion has increased enormously in recent years by expanding investment opportunities in a wide range of foreign financial products. It should also be noted that the United States of America has signed bilateral agreements on automatic exchange of information with a number of countries, including many EU Member States, including Hungary. These are called the agreements signed under the so-called FATCA agreement. Another international example is that the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has also developed a uniform and international standard for the automatic exchange of information on tax matters, following the above-mentioned FATCA agreement. This amendment, which is now presented to the Parliament, fulfils these two obligations, plus our obligation to comply with EU expectations, and introduces the automatic exchange of information in Hungary. This is also important because it is one of the most important means of tax evasion and avoidance to ensure that the automatic exchange of information between authorities in the framework of tax cooperation is carried out without any care. According to this regulation, all relevant account information is made available to the State tax authority, which is automatically passed on to representatives of other authorities, thereby reducing the possibility of income concealment. Under the agreement, the tax authorities of the Signatory States and the Hungarian tax authority exchange information on the accounts of customers resident in the partner country with financial and capital market participants registered in their territory. As a result of the exchange of information, the tax authorities automatically share information on financial accounts received from financial institutions in the framework of EU and international administrative cooperation. As a result of the amendment of the law, Hungarian financial institutions also have due diligence obligations for certain financial accounts, first until 31 December 2016 and then until 31 December 2017. Under the due diligence rules, financial institutions screen the contents of accounts for both individuals and entities and then share them with international authorities. The legislative amendment proposal also includes rules for notification, change notification and publication, so that Hungary can comply with its obligations as set out here. However, it is important to note that the proposal states that information obtained or transmitted for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts is a tax secret, but in that capacity this tax secret is dissolved by the law and that information obtained during due diligence can be transmitted to the authorities of foreign organisations. The proposal also introduces a system of sanctions against the financial institution managing the account in order to comply with these requirements. Based on the information provided by financial institutions and information received from foreign tax authorities, the tax authority can use more effective means of combating tax evasion and tax evasion. However, it is important to point out that, as a result of the legislative amendment, tax revenue increases can be achieved by the fact that the tax authority will also be aware of savings, investments and untaxed income held in high amounts of bank accounts that have so far been unknown to the tax authority. The desired objectives can be achieved by means of this bill, and in order to achieve internal legislative harmonisation in the context of the legislative amendment, it is also necessary to amend certain financial sector laws, which are also included in this legislative proposal. [[13.50]] The obligation to harmonise legislation arising from our membership of the European Union should be implemented by 31 December 2015, which justifies the urgent need to adopt this bill. Dear Parliament, In the following, I would like to turn to the obligation to legislate, which is also due to our EU obligation. This requires an amendment to the so-called cash law in Hungary. The amendment of the law implementing Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the control of cash entering and leaving the Community serves to comply with the judgment in the preliminary ruling before the Court of Justice of the European Union. On this basis, the highest band in Hungary has been set at 60 per cent in the system of sanctions in the broadband system, which is in breach of the cash law, and this amendment now reduces this high band in agreement with EU law and maximizes it by 50 per cent. There are many European examples of how the Hungarian sanction system fits into the EU sanction system. Having examined this, we were able to conclude that the Hungarian sanctioning system is fundamentally milder than EU legislation, so the 50 percent fine to be applied under the Hungarian bill cannot be considered excessive or exceptional. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I would like to turn to the last amendment of the third bill in the package, which includes amendments to the organisation of gambling. I would like to start by saying that these amendments are basically technical in nature and are essentially intended to promote transparency and increase tax revenues here too. The proposal proposes to amend the tax rules relating to gambling at two levels, both by amending the toy tax and by amending the law at the level of private individuals. The essence of changing the toy tax does not fundamentally change. Here the toy tax is payable basically to online casinos and ground casinos. The tax rate remains the same, with a tax rate of 30% on their revenues below HUF 10 billion and an additional 10% on their revenues above HUF 10 billion. At this level, the legislative package introduces a new element by paying an additional 15% tax on online casino games if the income of the online casino is higher than the income of the terrestrial casino with the same owner. The amendment concerning the other level of the amendments is drawn up in the Sija Act, but a major change is also intended only for additional tax collection. Since 2013, there has been a rule that distance gambling profits are exempt at the level of individuals. That rule remains unchanged. A technical amendment has been clarified by the fact that the category of online gambling has been removed from the definition category of remote gambling. The amendment follows this technical amendment and continues to exempt income in the online gambling category. However, it is also a new element here that income from the foreign jackpot system will be taxable. If you look at it, the amendment at the level of Sjaja will also result in additional tax revenue. That's how I was able to sum up the details of this package. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-04-42	Welcome, fellow Members. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-04-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, ma'am, We have before us a bill which, as a result of our tax harmonisation obligation, is the European Union 2014/107. Council Directive of the European Union and, as a result of our membership of the OECD, the joint reporting requirement will be adopted in Hungary and will carry out the XXXVII of 2013 on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. Law and the amendment of certain related financial sector laws. The aim of the amendment of laws relating to automatic exchange of information is to succeed in combating tax fraud and tax evasion in this globalised world. It is particularly important to create the possibility of rapid and efficient exchange of data and information between tax administrations in different countries. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of Ministers No 2014/107 It intends to transpose the European Union Directive into Hungarian law, which amended the former 2011/16 EU Directive. The reporting obligation for automatic tax exchange between tax administrations within the European Union is also extended to financial accounts. Allow me to briefly explain the background to the proposal. Article 2 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Following the adoption of the European Community Directive No 1 on Savings Taxation, the European Union signed agreements with Switzerland, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco and San Marino containing provisions equivalent to those laid down in the Directive. Member States have also signed agreements with dependent areas of the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. The G20 tasked the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, to develop a uniform standard for automatic exchange of account information. The OECD Board published this international standard in July 2014. Following the adoption of the proposal to update the Savings Taxation Directive, the Commission presented a recommendation on 17 June 2011, together with a mandate to open negotiations on agreements with those countries. The aim and direction of this was to bring EU countries' agreements with these countries into line with international developments and to ensure that they continue to apply measures equivalent to those applied in the European Union. On 14 May 2013, the Council reached agreement on the mandate to negotiate and concluded that negotiations should continue in line with recent international developments, i.e. to encourage automatic exchange of information as an international standard. The Commission has developed an action plan to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, which highlighted the need to strongly encourage automatic exchange of information and future European and international standards for tax transparency and information exchange. On 9 December 2014, on the basis of the proposal submitted by the Commission in June 2013, the Council adopted the Annex 2014/107. European Union Directive. The amendment provides a consistent, uniform and comprehensive EU approach to automatic exchange of account information in the internal market. In addition to what was mentioned earlier, the bill contains further amendments, to which Madam Secretary of State has already referred. In short, I would like to refer to these directions. XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling is hereby amended. Law. The proposal includes, inter alia, general rules on the prohibition of responsible gaming organisation as well as data protection provisions related to the introduction of the player protection register, specifying terminology and conceptual definition for placing under the care of the player. [[14.00]] The amendment also clarifies and clarifies that the organizer with several casino units sets the clean gambling revenues of the casino units and its online casinos together each month. Therefore, only the proportion of the concession fee per month for each month concerned can be deducted. New element in the provision is the add-on 15% gaming tax on online casinos in the event that the pure gambling revenue of the organizer's casino is higher than that of online casinos. CXVII of 1995 on personal income tax The proposal to amend law is the other element I would like to refer to. XXXIV of 1994 on the organisation of gambling By law, the player prize from the foreign jackpot system will be taxable as of 1 October 2015. In line with this, the provision of the proposal amending the Personal Income Tax Act states, as a coherent clarification, that the prize from the online casino game does not qualify as income except for the prize from the foreign jackpot system, so that it is practically exempt. As with this gambling win, the winnings from the online casino game are, as a rule, exempt, with the exception of the winnings from the foreign jackpot system, which is considered to be taxable income, so they are taxed on a player's level. Dear House, In the light of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support the proposal, which is primarily for harmonisation of laws, and the additional additions will strengthen the elements that clarify the obligation to pay taxes and the procedural arrangements for those involved in this genre. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-04-44	I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-11-04-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! When I started reading the title of the law and what it contained, I was also in a positive mood as an opposition representative at the beginning. After all, what the Government has set out in this regard, and what Madam Secretary of State, my fellow Member, has said, I think, is the right and the right direction. International action against tax fraud itself, against tax evasion, is a national interest, and this is done only within an international framework, and I think that is in any case right and good. If this law itself were to be completed here and it was about what Mrs Secretary of State spoke about in length and in detail, then this would be an absolutely eligible proposal from the MSZP. There's only one problem that this law continues here. You have also mentioned what other amendments will be made in this current amendment proposal. And then man's eyebrows began to rise a little, because, based on what they read later, I would think that this law, which is called the Law on certain rules of international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens and the bill amending certain laws, should be renamed lex Andy Vajna. I read in this law that its proposal for the government to modify personal income tax as well as the law on the toy tax mentioned by you is to make it more competitive for one person, Andy Vajna. So it is clear that, speaking of a tax system, it would be okay if the Hungarian tax system changed so that Hungary would be competitive. This is not happening, as we always manage to step back from the competitiveness ranking, and the countries of the region are pulling past us in this respect. But it is a pleasure in any way that Andy Vajna is becoming more competitive. I am sorry for my fellow Member, Mr Pigeon, because it would have been a stylish thing if Erik Bánki had said this speech you said, because Erik Bánki's proposal was his first act, so let's make Andy Vajna more competitive. This is the second act of this soap opera. After all, this proposal is about the fact that, on the one hand, it was created with another law, who should be entitled to operate online casinos. According to the latest amendment, only casino owners can operate online casinos on the proposal of Erik Bánki. This allows Andy Vajna to break into another industry, which is the online casino industry. It's also a rather profitable industry, by the way. What Madam Secretary said, plus 15 percent tax, sounds very good at first. I am not a very deep expert on the profitability of online casinoing, but you can see at first reading that because you only have to pay the plus 15% if the online casino brings more than the regular casino, it is a serious restriction. And considering how much less cost-effective it is to run an online casino than a regular casino, I think 15 percent is a pretty low key. So I think that this does not generate such a great deal of revenue for the Hungarian budget, but if it has figures for this, estimates for the government, then, of course, I would be happy to hear them as well. The other thing I would like to point out to you, as a kind of comment and criticism, is that the amendment to the law on personal income tax, in order not to have to pay a tax to those who earn their income from the Hungarian system of jackpot after the online casino prize, raises, in my opinion, the fact that my fellow Member referred to a lack of coherence, raises the question of how much this corresponds to the legislation of the European Union. How is it that money from a Hungarian system of jackpot is not subject to personal income tax, but if I win it on the basis of an Austrian, German or other country online jackpot system that I make from my room, I don't have to go anywhere, but it will be subject to personal income tax. Thus, this does not seem to be an EU-compliant solution at first hearing, and perhaps this amendment is causing a lack of coherence in the EU legal order. This last change, in order not to have to pay personal income tax on an online jackpot with a Hungarian system, and in all other cases, makes sense, so I could say with a political mind that we, as opposition representatives, always assume malice. But still, I say that there is only one reason for this, if you want to steer the community playing in the online casino in Hungary, not in foreign casinos, but in Andy Vajna's online casinos; which I also understand from the government's operation so far, but perhaps now it would be enough that this government is not family-friendly, but is family-friendly and friend-friendly. Where is the limit, I would ask the Secretary of State how much more someone's profits and business need to be supported and helped by changing the tax legislation so that it actually carries the people in the online casino in Hungary, so that as many customers as possible, the more money, the more profits, the richer and perhaps even a few diamond rings as we see in the tabloid press. Overall, I can say to Mrs State Secretary that if the amendment itself had remained at its original goal, and the issues closely linked to it, namely, international legislative harmonisation in relation to tax fraud, tax evasion, tax evasion and more decisive, stronger, effective action, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party would have unanimously supported this initiative, this bill, and would have voted in favour of this vote. But by sewing up a lot of other things in this, and I wanted to highlight one of them, which, in our view, is of particular concern to provide Andy Vajna with new profits and new opportunities, and also in the most favorable environment, so that the environment can also help those who play in online casinos spend their money with him, I think that this makes this bill unsupportable. So, on the whole, in this form, I say once again, not because of the original content, but because of the added content, the MSZP faction will certainly not support the proposal, because we do not support Andy Vajna's hand in newer and newer industries and gain new billions in the way that no one else can enrich in Hungary: tax evasion, tax change. This cannot be supported by the Socialist Party faction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[14.10]]
u2015-11-04-46	I now give the floor to János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-04-47	[[No sound.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honestly, I thought, even when I wasn't a Member, that the insolence of the government to help its own friends within the framework of personalised legislation was much less so, but just because it was almost a daily practice, I would like to use a quote...
u2015-11-04-48	Excuse me, Congressman, did you put the microphone on?
u2015-11-04-49	[[He's pinning his microphone.]] Thank you, Mr. President. So, ladies and gentlemen, when I wasn't a Member, I didn't think that the government would so often bring in laws tailored to their own friends, business associates, business acquaintances here in Parliament. Once again, there is a law before us, which is basically for this purpose, not for the harmonisation of EU law. If I may, I would like to begin with a quote from János Lázár, who quoted it:. Do not think that this mass of legislation in which we live has been created by chance, through these laws interest groups enforce their own views. My fellow Members, in this case this bill has been quite exactly the same. My question is, by putting Andy Vajna back in the position with this legislation, what the government would like to repay. That Andy Vajna recently announced that he wanted to buy TV2 and obviously turn it into a pro-government medium? Is this the way to repay Andy Vajna for once again putting a little money into his pocket through legislation? Because what is this law about? Next year, the prize from the online casino game will be tax-free, with the exception of winnings from the foreign jackpot system. So far, interestingly, it was not important to make as much money as possible on gambling, while tens of thousands of entrepreneurs made a living operating gambling machines, while the government still announced the fight against gambling: who would not agree that the one-armed robber should not win people's money? But the government was basically not driven by this goal, but by redistributing this market to its own friends. And what happened in this case? From tens of thousands of small entrepreneurs, the government takes away the possibility of gambling and, shortly thereafter, distributes it to Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima. You can also see how this whole situation went down. In 2011, the government wanted to reduce gambling by raising the toy tax, or at least that's what it said. Shortly thereafter, András Aradszki KDNP and György Balla Fideszes submitted, and on 9 December 2013 - this Parliament accepted - in an exceptionally urgent procedure, the law that one toy casino per 500 thousand inhabitants can be operated, with the conclusion that up to five can be operated in the capital and in the county of Pest and three in the Transdanubia and the eastern part of the country. Once again, what was exceptionally urgent? The adoption of the casino law. Fidesz did not, for example, consider the adoption of the Casino Act to be an exceptionally urgent procedure, to help foreign exchange lenders or to protect Hungarian agricultural land from foreign buyers. When this was submitted by the pro-government representatives, they made sure that there was a law that, interestingly, favored by the government film commissioner Andy Vajna; practically, a monopoly was created with effective government help that all online gambling revenues were concentrated with the government's two friends, because only those who had a casino concession before, and what a coincidence! - Andy Vajna won it. Colleagues, when the government introduces the measure to enable entrepreneurs to operate online cash registers, it makes this mandatory for them, although the budget generates more than HUF 200 billion from the operation of online cash registers, despite the fact that entrepreneurs have to replace their cash registers, they have an average of HUF 150,000 in extra expenses, and, for some reason, they do not need to introduce the cash register in the case of casinos, and the National Tax and Customs Office does not want to control traffic, they do not want to reduce tax fraud by introducing online cash registers. Why? Why should the world of gambling be less caught? Is it the world of gambling where the economy operates most clearly according to international experience? There's the highest tax discipline, is that why you don't have to put in an online cash register and make sure your tax dollars pay off? Obviously, it's not that, it's that the government doesn't want its own friends to be hit by such unpleasant measures as the online cash register. This bill, my fellow Members, is basically about how the government will help Andy Vajna. This has been added to some basically technical legislative harmonisation proposals, but the essence of this solution is how to put billions more into Andy Vajna's pocket. Just like when we marveled at the VAT-free income of these casinos, in this way billions more were placed in Andy Vajna's pocket. This is what Viktor Orbán said that MEPs from the Jobbik side should not attack the government, because this is no longer corruption, because Fidesz has passed the laws that can legitimize this. These cases can no longer be called a crime, since the government has legitimised the spending of public funds in this way. And in practice, when the government carries out such a transit nationalization, i.e. distracting its livelihood from tens of thousands of small entrepreneurs, the possibility of gambling, and distributing it to its own friends, it is nothing more than to rob Hungary so that the entrepreneurs and businessmen close to Fidesz, the government commissioners, can earn much more revenue and add billions to their billions. That's the point of this bill. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-04-50	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see anyone applying right now. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no signal.]] No application. The general debate is therefore closed. I will ask Agnes Hornung if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[Agnes Hornung nodds.]] You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-11-04-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank the Members very much for their comments. I would like to react very briefly and perhaps add a few thoughts to what I said earlier. I would like to point out once again that this amendment is basically a technical amendment, so it does not cause any particular change in the system of gambling taxation that has been introduced so far. Our common goal is to improve the country's competitiveness, and this can be resolved in many ways, one way being to reduce tax fraud and the other to establish and develop appropriate tax revenues. Accordingly, we wanted to adjust the revenues in this field of gambling. There have been two changes, and in both cases tax revenues have increased, one, as I mentioned earlier, at casino level, and the other at player level. At casino level, the tax base is determined for both online casinos and terrestrial casinos, these should be added together and the tax rate applied together. Thus, both the terrestrial casino and the online casino's tax revenues will be taxed. [[14.20]] The point of this amendment is that if online casinos appear to generate additional income from the owner, another extra tax burden would be imposed by the State, which would be the extra tax burden above the normal tax burden, which is included in the amendment. The other amendment is introduced at the level of persons in the SAY Law. Here, too, an additional tax revenue is generated by this amendment. Since 2013, income has been tax-free at the level of personal income tax, which remains so. There is only one technical amendment here, according to which the concept of online gambling has been removed from remote gambling, which also makes it tax-free, so there is no change here. Here, too, an additional tax income is introduced, which means that income from the foreign jackpot is taxed, and only foreign income is taxed because the income from the Hungarian jackpot income at the level of the organisation, i.e. at the level of the aforementioned organisation. This is how we thought that both organisations and individuals could contribute to improving Hungary's competitiveness through appropriate tax revenues. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. István Józsa: Andy Vajna's competitiveness.]]
u2015-11-04-52	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. That concludes our work. I thank the Parliament for its work, and the meeting is closed. We will resume the meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. [[Meeting ended at 2:22 p.m.]] László Földi s.k.a. Dezső gullible s.k.a.
