u2015-10-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 5th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that at the meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Nándor Gúr will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, 6 October was declared by the government in its decree of 10 December 2001 as the day of mourning of the Hungarian nation. As a result of our rich centuries of fate and the uncompromising desire for freedom of Hungarians, many mourning days are recorded in our history. These days, however, were not merely written into our memory by the paragraphs of laws, decisions and decrees, but by the victims of our national struggles with their personal destiny. With their martyrdom in the present, they impose two obligations on us: to keep awake the idea for which they paid with their lives, and their example, if necessary, to follow, without compromise. October 6, 1849 was the day in which the imperial retaliation machine following the 1848-49 War of Liberty took the most of its victims in 24 hours. Among those executed on 6 October were Hungary's first head of government and 13 senior officers of the army: about 40 percent of the general staff. Dear Parliament, Wherever Hungarian lives in the world, regardless of party stand and world view, on this day he bows his head to the martyrs of our 1848-49 freedom fight. The 12 generals executed by the army of Arad and a colonel, Prime Minister Lajos Batthyány executed in the New Building in Pest, President Zsigmond Perényi, MP Imre Szacsvay, Minister of Transport and Public Works, János Jesenak, Minister of Government and Colonel Lajos Kazinczy, who was also executed in Arad, and more than a hundred martyrs and more than a thousand imprisoned victims of reprisal. There is no way to list the names of these hundreds of victims, but once a year let the names of Lajos Aulich, János Damjanich, Aristid Dessewffy, Ernő Kiss, Károly Kézich, György Láhner, Károly Leiningen-Westerburg, József Nagysándor, Ernő Poeltenberg, József Schweidel, Ignác Török, Generals Károly Vécsey and Colonel Vilmos Lázár. Why is it important to highlight their names? Because these generals did not emigrate and leave their country after the surrender of arms, although they could have. Many of them were not born Hungarians, yet they deliberately chose to stay home, accepting all the consequences. I'm willing to die for what they swore to do. Our martyrs executed in Arad have sworn to Hungarian freedom, and they have endured it all along, together, to the death. In the valley of the shadow of death, they didn't back down, they didn't excuse themselves, they didn't reinterpret their vows. In this way they became true Hungarians in their lives and final winners in their deaths. Their sacrifice, together with the ideas of national freedom and independence and civilization in 1848, became an essential part of the identity of our political nation. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary prepared for the national events of the monument of the Arad martyrs 125 years ago, in October 1890. In the early days of October, 1890, a narrow company of writers and artists had a shocking experience in the capital. They could hear the short speech by Lajos Kossuth, then 88 years old, on a phonograph to commemorate the martyrs of Arad at the request of the delegation to Turin. Like many other accounts, the journalist of the Political Newspaper quoted only a very short part of this speech. When we hear this detail, we immediately discover why these few were burned into the memory of the man of the generation after the war of freedom. This detail was the eternal message of Kossuth's message and the idea of the 1848-49 freedom fight. The quote from 1890 says: * To your country unwaveringly, be faithful to you, O Hungarian! Respect him who is respected, but who is a believer of your country - do you understand? ! - I want you to be a fan of your country. Don't make yourself a carved image to worship it, worship only the God of the freedom of your country, as worshiped by those who have suffered martyr death for their loyalty... Dear Parliament, The list of our martyrs is XX. Our century history has passed on, which indicates to us that the message of Kossuth and the example of our martyrs has not been forgotten for more than 160 years after the retribution. Their memory could not be erased by Haynau's death sentences, by the iron bars of prisons, by the conquering ideologies and oppressive powers of the twentieth century. Today, October 6, 2015 Hungary's National Assembly also bows down to the memory of the martyrs of the 1848-49 War of Independence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause.]] Thank you very much. [[The people in this room stand up and remember the martyrs of Arad with a silent drive.]] Thank you very much. [[9.10]] Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, István Szilárd Németh, our Fidesz colleague, asked for the title of Article 7. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-06-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It may not be a rhetorical exaggeration to mention that we are living in historical times today, Europe and Hungary in it, Hungary, have not had such a challenge in terms of their future since World War II. If we think badly, we make bad decisions, we do not work together and we do not do the right thing, it is a matter of years and we will not recognize Europe or Hungary. Everyone knows what I am talking about, the mass illegal immigration of the nature of migration, which has flooded Europe and Hungary with an invasion. Unfortunately, in this situation, the European Union, as a decisive alliance on our continent, is unable to give the right answer. One of these concerns is the introduction of a compulsory quota system, which Hungary rejected at the beginning, because we believe that no one has the right to determine in any Member State who the nationals of that Member State should be, who the Member State should allow, whom it will accept, whom it will live with. This is a very important Member State self-determination, which the European Union has no right to take away from Member States in the European Union. I have just mentioned the importance of cooperation and cooperation, but we need to see that we are not able to think together on this issue either. We were concerned that, for this very determined stand, which I would like to stress to everyone, the government came after more than 1 million 100 thousand Hungarians shared their views with the government and said that it considers it the most important thing to protect the borders of the country and the European Union, to protect the Hungarian and European identity, culture, well, in this situation the liberals were holding that they wanted to introduce the interpretation of Article 7 and the application of Article 7 to Hungary in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Civil Liberties. This would have meant that our voting rights would be suspended, as if we were not even involved in the work of the European Union, in the life of the European Union. Last night, this thought seemed to be miscarriage, as the socialists did not support it directly, but according to the news, on the proposal of the socialists, the leadership of the Committee on Civil Liberties decided to question the European Commission, why it had not initiated an investigation against the Hungarian Government in its own jurisdiction. Then the sources also mention that the danger that the liberals have established against Hungary is now one step closer, with the help of the socialists, as the sanctioning procedure that leads to the withdrawal of the nuclear option, i.e. the right to vote, remains among the options. I think it is quite clear to everyone that, in cooperation with the Hungarian Left, Hungary wants to put the introduction of mandatory quotas on the level of the European Comrades, the Socialist International, the Greens, the Liberals and at all costs, because we are not willing to accept them. Hungary has taken every step to deal with this mass migration because of the European Union's inertia, and it has results, because if we look at these figures, we are now at the point that 318 054 people have crossed the border of Hungary illegally, and only 2 percent of them have crossed the Serbian-Hungarian border after the introduction of the technical legal closure on 15 September. Of course, we have also made proposals, whether in the European Union or in the United Nations, to address the root of the problem. It must be made clear to everyone here in Parliament that our constitutional and moral duty, the defence of the country, must be met by all of us, especially today, on 6 October. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-06-2	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, István Ájgyártó, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-10-06-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In the context of the current migration crisis, declarations from the EU Member States have indeed been made threatening to suspend the voting rights of the Member States under Article 7 of the Treaty. It is therefore worth a closer look at the legal possibilities and background of such a possible procedure. Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union allows Member States to suspend their voting rights in a multi-stage procedure. In the first phase of the procedure initiated by the European Parliament, by a third of the Member States or by the Commission, the Council, after obtaining the consent of the European Parliament, may, by a four-fifths majority, determine whether there is a clear risk that a Member State may seriously breach the values set out in Article 2. These values are based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. A third of the Member States or the Commission may initiate the second phase of the procedure. Following the consent of the European Parliament, the European Council, acting unanimously, may conclude that a Member State is seriously and permanently violating the values of Article 2. [[9.20]] The Member State concerned shall be duly heard in the first two stages. In the third phase, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on its own initiative, may restrict the rights of the Member States and thus suspend the voting rights of the Member State. The current Article 7 procedure has been obtained in the last Nice and final form of the Union's founding treaties with the Lisbon amendments which entered into force on 1 December 2009, but have not yet been applied in practice. A similar measure, but pursuant to Article 7, was taken in respect of Austria after the Austrian People's Party, first in the Austrian Federal elections on 3 October 1999, later entered into a coalition with the Austrian Party for Freedom. Due to some hostile and racist forms of action by FPÖ leaders close to the extreme right, then members of the Council, the so-called EU 14, decided to temporarily suspend political dialogue with the Austrian coalition government. Based on the measures introduced, the Austrian Government was boycotted to maintain bilateral relations at political level, did not support Austrian candidates for the posts of international institutions, and only received Austrian ambassadors at technical level in each Member State. However, in the absence of formalised procedures, this decision was taken on a bilateral basis, not as a result of an EU procedure, but as a result of a political decision taken by the Member States at the same time. The Austrian ministers have not been excluded from multilateral meetings and the right to vote has not been revoked. Since sanctions not only proved unsuccessful but also had an opposite effect, the EU urgently had to find a solution to the internationalised political crisis, thus eliminating so-called sanctions against Austria in September 2000. The German, Dutch, Finnish and Danish Foreign Ministers initiated a new mechanism to enforce the rule of law in 2013 to protect European core values. The Commission then laid down the details of its own internal procedure in its communication on the EU framework for the rule of law. Finally, the Council adopted Council conclusions in December 2014 on ensuring respect for the rule of law. The first such debate is expected to take place at the November General Affairs Council, focusing on the subject of electronic governance, presenting good or bad practices in the Member States. All this proves that the activation of Article 7 is extremely difficult, there is no chance in the current environment, apart from the fact that Hungary has not given any reason to do so. Honourable Member, I ask you to acknowledge my reply. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, a Socialist Party Representative, has applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "The World Day of Teacher Rights." You have the floor, Congressman, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-10-06-5	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear House, On 5 October 1966, UNESCO and another UN organisation, its labour organisation, the ILO, set up a system of 95 points, according to the agreed will of the ILO. This system constitutes a system of educators' rights, a charter that has been celebrated throughout the world since 1994. This is an opportunity, because yesterday was the day to talk about Hungarian education here in the Hungarian Parliament. We continue to believe that the management of Hungarian education is characterised by reckless measures, unthinkable actions and chaos. The system works because teachers work in public education or in higher education, maintaining the system by exerting their strength. But if we considered the managing centre alone, the institution-support centre named after poor Klebelsberg, to be the sole centre of Hungarian education, then this system would not be able to work in quality, but at all. The events of the last days, the lack of thought, the thoughtlessness, are also shown by the fact that the otherwise professionally important self-esteem and evaluation, which has to happen among teachers in all professions, including in our profession, has been called completely unthinkable and unfortunate. Colleagues here encourage me to say the acronym of the initials of the teacher self-esteem groups. Think about it. I'll leave it to your imagination how you make it. In any case, the world of the Internet, living on its own, has already classified this self-esteem group by far, and by examining the contents of it little, it has brought something that shows how far they do not think about what they are doing. I'm not questioning good intentions, I'm questioning professionalism and success. As far as higher education is concerned, in recent days the Secretary of State for Higher Education announced a Campus Mundi programme to help Hungarian students study abroad for billions of forints. I would like to remind you of the opposition you expressed when I held a press conference on 16 April 2013. I do not want to summarize the whole thing, only the summary published in the press, that after my press conference, the MSZP wanted most of all university and college students to learn foreign languages, mainly English, from European Union support for three to five months. After not two years or more than two years, Columbus' egg was invented, and the name Campus Mundi practically announced a similar program, which we are happy about in itself, but its purpose is not good, because it is generally not worth giving a scholarship. Everyone who knows a little about higher education knows that targeted scholarships are the right thing to do, because it flows like sand in the hands of a man, and there will be no result when they put a lot of money into it. Besides, higher education is characterised by insufficient funding. Budget support for higher education is insufficient. The many, tens of billions of forints that have been withdrawn from higher education since the adoption of the 2010 government have still not been returned in its entirety, there is still a 15-18 billion cap there, while new programmes are being launched that are cost-intensive but inefficient. I say to you that until wages are settled in higher education, until there is a salary increase in higher education, in which we will propose full academic salary as a starting point, and the reference of this starting point to other university functions, the professor, the assistant professor, the assistant teacher, so that the PhD scholarship is not the benchmark for the university teacher, this will cause at least the same echo as the acronym of the teacher self-assessment group. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-06-6	Thank you, Vice President Hiller. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-10-06-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that from this day too, on the occasion of yesterday's party stand, we all have to acknowledge the work that teachers do in primary and secondary schools, or - because we are talking about teachers' rights - we can even think of those who cooperate in educating teachers. You have expressed criticism about a number of things, honourable Member, about the KLIK and about the system of higher education. Why was it necessary to create a CLIC? You know that in Hungary over the last 25 years, or I say that in the 20 years preceding 2010, huge social differences have developed. When you look at the difference between two walks that are quasi-extremist, you see that the difference in the number of children of school age per thousand inhabitants is only twofold. However, there are already five times the difference between walks in GDP per capita. And if we look at the difference between Hungary's luckier and more difficult walks in proportion to disadvantaged children in class or in proportion to the number of children receiving regular social assistance, we can also find a number of differences of 26 or 32 times. [[9.30]] In this case, it is clear that the former system which operated public institutions, including schools, could not reduce these differences. The former 3200-style fragmented system in which hospitals, schools and a lot of public administration tasks have increased the difference between Hungary's luckier and more difficult districts, its small regions and regions in 20 years and over two decades. It was therefore necessary to establish a central reservation, which is why, among other things, it was necessary to set up the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, so that there would be a centre from which the state, wherever a child is born, could offer the same level of public services everywhere. There is a basic package, which does not depend on the current solvency of the 3200 municipalities, but provides the same quality of public services to all children born in Hungary. This includes the creation of the CLIK, central maintenance and operation. Part of this is the pedagogical career, as the government first introduced the possibility of a career for teachers, which resulted in an increase in salaries. Although opposition parties did not support it, this was an additional HUF 32 billion source in the first year of 2013, last year we managed to distribute HUF 120 billion in the pedagogical career, and this year the budget is still HUF 38 billion. These funds were sent to teachers as a reward for the well done work, combined with a motivational system, which, according to our latest survey, encourages 94.5 percent of teachers to move forward. And the kind of enhanced consulting that we've created requires 71 percent and considers it important. And let me give you another number, Congressman. It is possible to make a lot of mistakes for KLIK, it is possible to blame a lot of things, some of them are real, but how is it that, in the case of 137 institutions, they asked that the operator should have remained the municipality, but they asked for these schools, these institutions, to be operated by KLIK. If KLIK were to function so badly locally, perhaps these 137 institutions would not have asked for its transfer from the municipal system to the state system voluntarily. As far as the issue of higher education is concerned, higher education was not in an easy position in 2010, since there was a huge debt burdened by PPP constructions, constantly ticking around the neck of many rectors and many, many institutional leaders. This situation had to be dealt with somehow. We have triggered part of this huge PPP heritage, but a ministerial Commissioner is working to replace additional PPPs in the next period. The consolidation of universities was only possible through chancellors. You know that university debt has decreased radically in the last year since the chancellors helped the rectors. Contrary to what the opposition parties have said here that there will be contradictions, there must be personal friction in one or two places, but overall, the system of higher education has brought about material stability, the figures prove a radical reduction in university debt. What I don't understand is why you say that the funds have been withdrawn, because you know that every year, if I remember correctly, this year's budget has more than HUF 17 billion in higher education compared to last year. Thus, higher education resources could be expanded. As far as the Campus Mundi tender was concerned, it was not the Spanish wax, since there was a Campus Hungary, which is the image of it. This was a successful programme, so we thought we should expand the resources and continue. I trust it will make your years in higher education even more valuable to as many young people as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the pro-government factions.]]
u2015-10-06-8	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. The May Other from the political group also applied for a speech before the agenda, Mrs Bernadett Szél, on the title "The Day of Honorable Work." You have the floor.
u2015-10-06-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, October 7th is the day of decent work around the world, this is the day when a series of trade unions protest and hold movements in order to draw attention to the tens of millions of people working on this globe under unfair working conditions, often in inhumane conditions, eviscerated and hired slaves. Unfortunately, Hungarian workers also have every reason to protest and demand decent work, higher wages, fair conditions and workers' rights. Most of these rights are not self-evident in Hungary today. I do not know if my fellow Members have seen the recent statistics that have been published today, and they say that with their sick child, Hungarian parents often do not dare to stay at home, because they are quite simply afraid of losing their jobs. I respectfully ask the government: was this the Hungary you wanted to build? Prime Minister Viktor Orbán thought of this when he talked about how cheap workers in Hungary are compared to how well-trained they are? That parents end up in a position where they don't dare stay home with their kids because they're getting fired? Think this through, fellow Members. The message of decent work is infinitely simple, and you cannot understand it. This is about giving every human being the opportunity to support himself and his family in decent circumstances. Now, in Hungary, statistics are about half of the employees making more than two million people under the minimum wage. This is not about decent work and decent wages, it is about the fact that when Viktor Orbán sold us abroad, how cheap we are compared to how well-trained we are, he practically betrayed these workers. I am deeply outraged by the fact that you are moving on in a direction that will guarantee Hungary a sure loser career. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we have the right in this country to have us legally dealt with, legally, so that the conditions are safe and that our health is protected in our workplace. Look at the recent statistics, it's scandalous what the labour and labour security checks show. We see that 73 percent and 83 percent, respectively, of the employers who are in breach, are still under control. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it was your government that systematically decommissioned the control system of labour and OSH; it was now a department in the NGM, previously an independent authority. Based on all this, I can assure you that there is no reason to celebrate here. However, I am asking you to start working at last, but not in the way you have done, but in the way that the interests of the Hungarian people wish. That's what this is about. This country has workers' poverty. Most of the Hungarian people can't make a living from their work, and they can't support their family with honor, they can train their children. There's the phenomenon of community service reemployment. I didn't write it down, it was the Home Office who described to me that it was a real phenomenon. Reemployment rates are discussed in the Ministry of Interior. When will this re-employment be lifted, Honourable Parliament? And the third is the destruction of the social network. We live in a country where if someone loses their job, there is nothing that will hold him and give him the opportunity to support himself and his family in some way until his next job. No wonder crowds are moving from this country, no wonder, and I say with great pain that 8-10 percent of the best Hungarian women of childbearing age now live abroad. I ask the honourable government, for which it is so important to support families in principle: will the children who are born there be able to come back to Hungary if their parents couldn't come back? What about these families, what about these mothers, and what about these children? Complete shortages have developed in this country. So far, I've missed the engineers, the IT guys, and there's been a shortage of doctors. Now I miss the cook, the pastry chef, the store clerk, the cashier, the butcher, and so on. We are now at the point that companies are raising wages because they cannot do the work they want at home, because they cannot find a working person in Hungary. Here we are, colleagues, and the Fidesz-KDNP government is heavily responsible for this. The May Other Politics has been telling you for years now, unfortunately, the future confirms us, but that is why we are not so happy, because we see that in Hungary vulnerability is skyrocketed, but wages are zero. That's the big deal, and that's the real government criticism. That's what you need to be able to change. It's your decent day of work. Why don't you step inside yourselves, please, and think about what you've given to the Hungarian people? I am not talking about the privileged, not the new oligarchs, not their recapitalisationd friends, but the Hungarian people who carry this country on their backs. Give them decent wages and decent work. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: Excellent! It's a rare applause in the same place.]]
u2015-10-06-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will respond.
u2015-10-06-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Listening to you, your usual angry, unrealized speech, it occurred to me that, in addition to the many missing trades, it is fortunate that there is no shortage of critical opposition politicians in Parliament. So this is definitely welcome. If I may, I would like to start talking about facts and reality, as one of the most important objectives of the government since its establishment in 2010 is to ensure decent work and valuable salaries for the Hungarian people. [[9.40]] Thanks to the success of our economic policy, we can say that today more people in Hungary have jobs than ever in the last 23 years. For over a year and a half there have been over four million employees in Hungary. According to the latest report by KSH, the number of employees aged between 15 and 74 in the June-August 2015 period has already reached 4 million 251 thousand. Since the change of regime, employment in Hungary has not been this high. At the same time, unemployment has continued to decline, currently at 6.7 percent, which is more than a ten-year record and is significantly lower than the EU average. The growth mainly occurred in the domestic competition sector, where the number of people has increased by 320 thousand since the change of government in 2010. As a result, the domestic employment rate has improved from 54,6 percent to 64.5 percent and is constantly approaching the EU average. In the first eight months of this year alone, the number of employees increased by 134,000, i.e. 3.2 percent. We can also say that real earnings in Hungary have been rising steadily for 31 months now. If we look at 2015 alone, it can be concluded that real earnings have increased by 3.8 percent on average in the first seven months of the year. This year's expansion close to 4 percent is certainly assessed as outstanding, and it can also be considered very positive that real demand has been increased in all sectors of the economy, in a rather balanced way. On average, the purchasing power of actions increased by 3.9 percent in the business sector, 3.3 percent in the budget sector and 3.6 percent in non-profit organisations. In the meantime, real earnings growth is also significant for those involved in public employment, with an average of 2.9 percent. It can therefore be seen that not only the entrepreneurial sphere has raised wages and performances, but also the government, the public sector, is taking part in this process. I would like to remind you that in 2013 a career model for teachers was adopted, which provides a continuous increase in income for educators for five years. And let us not forget that from 1 July this year we have increased by 30 percent, and in the next four years we will increase the incomes of law enforcement workers and soldiers by another 20 percent. For several years we have been constantly improving the existential conditions of workers in the social and health sector, so we have increased the earnings of workers and doctors on average by more than 25 per cent in the healthcare sector. Next year, we plan to launch a career model program in public administration. The government, as you can see, will focus on all other instruments, namely career plans and sectoral targeted wage measures, rather than raising salary funds, in order to improve the income situation of those performing public tasks. But we also have the same results in the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. Over the last five years, the minimum wage has increased by 43 percent, and if we add an increase in family tax incentives, we have achieved significant real income growth in this sphere. The government wants to continue on this path. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Lajos Korózs applauds.]]
u2015-10-06-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-06-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At last year's NATO summit in Wales, NATO Member States decided to set up a management-management centre system in Eastern and Central Europe, in response to the Ukrainian crisis in response to a contingency action plan, with a head start against Russia to increase NATO's defence capabilities, due to increased security risks, as a kind of forward-looking bastion of NATO in seven different countries. Five of these seven steering coordination centres have now been implemented in the Baltic, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria at the request of the Eastern Central European countries. This year, Hungary, during Csaba Hende's ministership, requested that Hungary, with NATO's cooperation, set up such a coordination centre here in Székesfehérvár, and the decision to do so will be taken at the ministerial summit in Brussels on Thursday at the end of the week. I would like to stress that this is not a binding obligation due to our NATO membership, it works on a restricted basis, so we ask and the costs are borne by the host country. Back at the beginning, when he mentioned that he had logged in to this task, the Ministry of Defence tried to bludgeon the issue in a very narrow statement, he said that with a small investment, the defence could gain design and organizational experience for the safety of our country. In the first round, the Hungarian Ministry of Defence said that a small planning office will be set up in Hungary, a coordination centre, but later it turned out that it is a command centre of 40 people, which, in 48 hours' time, aims to manage a five thousand-person rapid response contingent, and this is the hallway to the establishment of an American military base in Hungary with NATO control, capable of receiving high alert forces, receiving weapons, troops and military technology, will carry out liaison tasks, and will also be engaged in the support and organisation of military exercises. Csaba Hende said at that time that it was for the safety of Hungary and our country, it was not directed against anyone, but he added quickly that it was neither politically nor legally in breach of the 1997 treaty between NATO and Russia. It is not true that it is not aimed at anyone, very clearly and indeclarably, at measures relating to the crisis in Ukraine; it is an aggressive and demonstrative move against Russia, which is about the establishment of American bases. This is not about increasing our defence, but rather about increasing a risk, because these coordination centres, the Rapid Response Corps, even for laymen, are clearly the primary targets in a time of military conflict. And if we add that, at the same time, developments took place in Hungary at the papal and Kecskemét air base, we conducted armored military exercises with US control, NATO control, demonstrational and provocatively, specifically anti-Russian edge, the unfortunate consequence of which is that there are hundreds of US soldiers currently stationed in Hungary, dozens of armored vehicles, multiple shooting vehicles, camp cannons. It's not protection, it's the growth of offensive abilities in our country. Yes, I agree with Szilárd Németh, many, many bad decisions have been made in migrant cases. In recent years, however, we have seen a series of bad foreign policy and security policy decisions, which were about Europe and Hungary playing the role of the extra in the geopolitical goals of the United States of America, destabilizing our own neighbourhood, mincing our own neighbourhood, and the migration crisis is only a consequence of this, honourable Members. In Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and, unfortunately, Ukraine and North Africa, Hungary acted for the purposes of these American, foreign and foreign interests. The Hungarian government should avoid these situations, we must not allow ourselves to serve foreign interests, become puppets, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] No foreign soldiers in Hungary, we must fight for our sovereignty. That's what the Arad Thirteen say. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[9.50]]
u2015-10-06-14	Thank you, Congressman Gyöngyösi. Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State for Defence, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2015-10-06-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary, although many conflicts are visible and visible around us in the world, is not in the buffer zone of the great powers, and the decision that is expected to be made on Thursday does not put Hungary in the buffer zone. Perhaps there is only one thing in the Member's speech and question that we agree with. Indeed, at the NATO Summit in Wales, a decision was made, at the request of the NATO Alliance countries in the East, to pay greater attention to the security of the Eastern Member States, and thus to establish this forward management core element, which is not located in seven countries, but in eight countries, because, in addition to the three Baltic countries, Poland, Bulgaria and Romania, as the Member said, have asked for its accession in the first round, and they have joined in addition to two countries, Slovakia and Hungary, and this decision will be taken this Thursday at the meeting of defence ministers in Brussels. The costs have also been discussed, Congressman. Indeed, Hungary will take part in some of the costs of the forward management-management core element located in Székesfehérvár, but of course NATO will also take part in NATO's joint funding. In Székesfehérvár, this is indeed the core element, which, I would like to stress, is not a forward rook, but some 40 officers, 20 officers from Hungary and 20 NATO countries will be working together here in Székesfehérvár, a city that, as a military town, I think has earned, deserved and worked for this not command, but a core element, to work here in recent years. Regardless of the crises, NATO will repay an old debt by installing the forward management-management core element, since in the eastern countries, the countries in the eastern part of NATO, in the newly joined Member States, almost no NATO infrastructure was built after accession; which, of course, can be found in other western Member States of similar size, which we have not established, a small part of which could be this core element which is now coming to Hungary. In his speech, Mr President, it seems that he has been following this slip in the press in recent days, and has taken this thinking into account, and has confused the countries that are practicing, not stationing, but in practice in Hungary today, which have not come to Hungary under American control, just under Hungarian control, and I think that this is a great recognition of Hungarian soldiers that a Hungarian general is leading this practice, in which armored combat vehicles are involved, which, of course, are not stationed in Hungary, but have arrived at the time of practice with American soldiers and their handlers, and will leave Hungary when the practice is completed. One of the eternal questions, dilemmas and decision-making situations of security policy is whether I should stay alone, defend myself alone, be a lone wolf, or join an alliance, accepting to share the conflicts of the other members of the alliance when joining the alliance, as I expect the one for all, everyone for one, on the basis of the principle that if they share my conflicts, then I must share in their conflicts. NATO also works on this principle: one for all, one for all, and 17 years ago, Hungary made a clear decision on this in a referendum. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The group leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr.Péter Harrach, also applied for a speech before the agenda:.. Will politicians in Western Europe hear the voice of citizens? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-10-06-17	Mr President, Dear House, When we have to make a decision and this happens to be a policy issue, it is natural to listen to the opinion of policy makers. But when it comes to everyday matters, people's opinions must be decisive. This is what we are using in Hungary today in relation to mass immigration. However, the question arises as to why European decision-makers do not take European people's views into account. Obviously, there are several reasons, since this is a complex question. I would highlight two, one political and one ideological reason. If we look at the fact that immigrant masses, when they settle in a country and get citizenship, how they vote, I think it's no secret that they usually vote for the left. It is therefore justified from this point of view that left-wing politicians are pro-immigration. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Of course, I have to mention one of those questions here. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Christians...]] What is important here, and not so much a political, more a matter of principle... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You shouldn't lie, as far as I know. The president's ringing.]] Looks like you found the note. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No! We're asking ourselves to lie.]]
u2015-10-06-18	Go on, Mr. Team Leader. [[It's ringing.]]
u2015-10-06-19	We are not anti-Islamic, we are anti-immigration, we are anti-terrorism, and we do not want communities in Hungary or even in Europe that are contrary to our culture and do not respect our standards. So this political reason, obviously some of the European leaders, is pro-immigration for this reason. But there's an ideological reason that's more complex than that. Some European leaders have joined the movement that cuts traditional Christian roots. And if the identity of a culture is weakened, especially against another culture with a very strong identity, then we need to find another ideal basis. And when it comes to Christian roots, we are talking not only about religious but rather about historical and social influences, because the elements of this culture, its norms, live on, even if they consciously do not accept them. This new foundation of ideas is not traditional liberalism, which demands the rule of law, democracy, human rights, but a new kind of liberalism that has already created its own dogmas and formulated the taboos. This world of dogmas and taboos makes their followers unfit to solve the real problems. I mean, if you can't talk about problems, how can you solve them? And to understand what this is all about, let me give you a domestic example. All of us who are sitting here in Parliament feel it is natural for us to fight segregation for integration. But when in a school, catching up is called segregation in the meaning of a dogma, the problem cannot be solved. There have been several examples of this in Hungary. Or we know a Member of Parliament who has named a natural sociological phenomenon, and he was immediately declared a misogynist because of his conflict with a kind of dogma. [[10.00]] I think that when... [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] Well, I haven't even said it yet, and they're yelling. The ultrafeminist opinion has no place in democracy. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You're talking nonsense! Agnes Kunhalmi: The congressman is much more intelligent than that.]] And all of this was spilled on by these ideologists with a glaze that they call politically correct, even though it is nothing more than a means of solving problems that cannot be solved. I believe that when we listen to the opinion of the people, we are not pro-immigration in Hungary, but we are opposed to everything that comes from it. Thank you for your attention. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Antihumans! Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-10-06-20	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, responds to what has been said on behalf of the Government. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Protect him!]]
u2015-10-06-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, In his speech, the Member referred to the fact that, in the context of modern-day migration, in the context of mass immigration, on the one hand in Europe, we can obviously talk about an immigration crisis, a demographic crisis that the European Union is apparently unable to address, and the problem is growing faster than European politicians would come up with solutions, but, moreover, the Member pointed out that, in addition to the immigration problem, there is also a democracy issue here. A part of the debate is also about whether a government can go against the will of a large majority of voters, whether it can represent other principles, whether the political elite can represent other directions than those who should be represented in principle by the political elite, whether the opinions of voters and the opinions of politicians can be divided, especially when they are very far away from voters, since Brussels is quite far away from all countries and a completely different political culture can develop than that represented by a local government or elected representative in a district. So this is starting to become a democracy issue just as much as it has become an immigration issue. I think that, apart from the Hungarian delegation, few delegations can say at international meetings that they have as strong legitimacy and democratic authority to represent the country as the representatives of Hungary in various European Union or international fora, because Hungary was the only one who dared to accept that before representing the country's position, they would ask people, because there is no other country that would have sent a questionnaire to each of its citizens, every citizen with suffrage, over 18 years of age, and would have asked the opinion of the people, and quite a lot of people in Hungary have sent these questionnaires back and expressed their opinions clearly. On the question of whether Brussels' policy on immigration has failed, this full admission policy, represented by left-wing parties in Hungary, and whether a new approach is needed, 77.4 percent of people said that they fully agree, 17.5 percent agree, do not agree 5.1 percent. 95 percent of people were told that the Hungarian government had to formulate a different policy than Brussels. The fact that the Hungarian government has to take a stronger position against Brussels's enabling policy is fully supported by 89,6 percent of the people, partly supported by 7.6 percent, and not supported by 2.8 percent. Thus, the left-wing opposition parties represent 2.8 percent of this in Parliament. The question of whether to turn back illegal immigrants, 86.1 percent of people said that they fully agree, 10.3 percent that they would rather agree, and 3.6 percent in total said that they did not agree with this position of the government. As I said, it is the opinion of over a million people. It is therefore possible to conflict different positions, but if we measure its weight, it is only the Hungarian position behind which the clear position of the Hungarian electorate, one million Hungarian voters, is the clear position, and obviously this, as the opportunity was offered to give an opinion to everyone, is also relevant to the entire population. Mr President, Mr President, you have also pointed out that left-wing parties usually take sides on this issue for the purpose of obtaining votes and allow immigration without barriers in their countries. We know that Gerhard Schröder was called by a Turkish newspaper Chancellor of Kreuzberg, because in his 2002 election victory he was assisted by the voters of the Turkish quarter of Berlin for the chancellor position. When we look at the proportion of voters with migrant backgrounds within Germany, it is 10 percent, which is why the social democrats also had a campaign for immigrants. According to a European social survey, 70-90 percent of Muslim immigrants supported left-wing parties, between 55 and 65 percent in Germany. If we look at 41 percent of the German population supporting Christian democrats, it is shocking that, on the other hand, only 7 percent of the immigrant Turks do. 41-7. This also draws attention to the fact that fully parallel societies can develop. Such numbers could be said from Britain, where 58 percent of immigrants vote for Labour [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] or Austria, where social democrats also started a sub-campaign, and 7 percent of all FP voters are Muslim. It is clear that the Left supports the policy of unlimited admission for political reasons. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-10-06-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows from the publication of the T/6010 Convention between Hungary and the Principality of Liechtenstein on the avoidance of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income and property taxes Final vote of bill No. 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6010. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 161 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. Next up is the 1999 XLIII on cemeteries and funerals. T/6158. Final vote of bill No. 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6158. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 157 votes in favour, no votes against, with 3 abstentions. It follows from the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. T/6129. Final vote of bill No. 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6129. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 107 votes to 107, 30 against and 24 abstentions. Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. T/6136. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and the final vote on the legislative proposal No. T/6136/7. by serial number and summary report by T/6136/8. by serial number. [[10.10]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is a motion by Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck and Mrs Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The LMP Group proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is a motion by Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck and Mrs Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 107 against and 24 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6136/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, 10 against and 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6136/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 130 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that T/6133 amending certain laws necessary for the transposition of Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6133/5. T/6133/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6133/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 160 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6133/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 161 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows from the criminal record system, the register of judgments handed down by the courts of the Member States of the European Union against Hungarian citizens, and the register of criminal and police biometric data in XLVII of 2009. Act T/6134 amending other laws in that context. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6134/5. and a summary report by T/6134/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6134/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 162 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6134/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 161 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a series of proposals. I would remind you that yesterday the debate was already held by the Parliament. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled H/5081 by Tamás Sneider, Jobbik, Member of the European Parliament on the restoration of the possibility of receiving early retirement benefits. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 50 votes in favour, 105 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Some of the representatives leave the meeting room. It's ringing.]] With all due respect, Members who do not participate in the plenary session should leave the Chamber. [[10.20]] Once again, I respectfully ask those fellow Members who do not participate in the work to leave the Chamber. They look very good on the screen, by the way, but perhaps they should remain those who participate in the plenary session. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on legislative amendments to the reduction of administrative bureaucracy will follow up until closure. The submission is T/6410. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-10-06-23	Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members who are taking part in today's opening debate on the grounds of interest beyond the political discipline, and join my fellow Members who are trying to support the almost hopeless business that concerns red tape in Hungary, redeployment and improvement of the Hungarian administration. If I may, I would like to start the ministerial expo with a few basics, especially because I believe that in recent years - partly supported by you and partly recognised by society - there has been a change in the country's administration, which will greatly strengthen this country, which is the goal and interest of all of us. A historical lesson is that the Hungarian state was strong when it was supported by a professional administration and bureaucracy in order to achieve some prosperity and partly in the service of the nation in the national interest. It is no coincidence that I bring here after 1867 the implementation of the April 48 laws with the administrative legislation that began in the 1870s, the essence of which was the construction of the modern Hungarian state. Even if the liberal state, which seemed to be an anachronism, was built within the framework of the language framework at that time, then public administration regulation - whether it was the local government, the legal authority, the regulation of the municipalities, the regulation of the justice system, the regulation of the state administration - was essential in order to say, from the perspective of a hundred years, that the most successful Hungarian state was the Hungarian state operating between 1867 and 1914: that was when we were most able to join the international frontline at that time, and that was when we could really help and increase national well-being. A very good example is the administrative system created after World War I, which followed the pattern of the years before World War I and, on the other hand, the response to very serious social crises: in 1920, we had to answer the question of the country's operation after the Trianon peace dictator, which was the loss of a large part of its resources and two thirds of its territories. This is why in 1929 the first comprehensive administrative law was born in Hungary, which regulated not only corrections, amendments, additions, details, but also the first serious administrative regulation, and as a result in the 30s, the state kept itself in a partially stable, consolidated state, and partly in a suitable state, looking at what was the objective of all the parliamentary parties at the time: the reunion of the border and Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. In order for Hungary to be at the forefront of the world, a professional administration was needed in the 19th century. At the end of the 20th century and at the end of the 20th century At the beginning of the 20th century, as this was bureaucracy supporting economic recovery, it was bureaucracy supporting economic growth, when Hungary in the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy was one of the economic leaders of Europe and the world, and, on the other hand, when the country, the state and the nation were in danger after Trianon, there was a great need for professional Hungarian administration in order to stabilise and consolidate the situation and make the country work. After 1938, after the first takeovers, after 20 years, Hungarian bureaucracy and administration were able to continuously take over, take back and operate former Hungarian territories from one day to the next. As a matter of public administration-historical interest, the Hungarian administration between the two world wars, the then Ministry of the Interior and the then administration knew more about all Hungarian settlements beyond the borders than the Hungarian government knows today during the period of digitalisation. This enabled us to be able to operate that administration when Hungary regained territories through legal and power tools. But to provide a counterexample of what the public administration could use: the fact that the Kádár regime could survive for 37 years was partly due to the fact that after consolidation in 63 there were council laws, district laws and administrative laws in Hungary that served the political order in full to ensure the stability and functioning of the system. The Cádár administration of the '70s and '80s still has its effect, and many administrative traditions, operating systems, principles, theories and case-law still exist today, which was born then, and in that period meant consolidation and stabilisation. The extension of the system's agony, that the system was able to operate for ten years after its economic bankruptcy, until 1990, is largely due to the creation of a professional administrative system and bureaucracy of the era. So a good administration is also suitable for the operation of a dictatorship where appropriate On the other hand - I say this only for the sake of the opposition - our aim is to create a strong Hungary, an economically competitive Hungary and a Hungary that does not break away from Europe, but to help Europe operate. If you allow it, it is perhaps important to state, as legislators between Parliament's walls, that, despite accession to the European Union between 1990 and 2010, the differences between Hungary and the European Union have not narrowed, for example, in terms of average wages or development, and that differences have increased in certain areas. So I think that the ambition that was set out in 2010 when the then government was founded to modernise public administration is essential in terms of the country's functionality, operational capacity, economic development, maintenance of growth, competitiveness, social catch-up and the creation of opportunities. In 1990, an administrative, municipal system was created, which was fragmented, fragmented, with much more democratic guarantees than efficiency; that is completely understandable. At a time of transition from a dictatorship to a democratic rule of law framework, the system of brakes and balances, where appropriate constitutional guarantees, conditions for democratic operation are more important than competitiveness and efficiency. In 1990, in the then legislative packages, between 1990 and 1994, they were looking for fundamental rights guarantees, democratic institutional guarantees, guarantees for the transition from dictatorship to democracy everywhere, including in public administration, rather than looking for the country's ability to become economically growing and competitive. I think this is a fully understandable and acceptable social situation. But the world has changed, and today we need, first and foremost, an administration that is a condition of a strong and modern state, which allows us to be able to compete in Europe by reuniting and preserving our national community, because as much as we are members of the Union's community, we are still living our lives in competition. This is a thousand years old habit from the point of view of the Hungarian way of life, given that we are a closed community in terms of language, culture and thinking. If I see today's debates on European societal challenges in Hungary, the overwhelming majority of Hungarian society, 80-90 percent of this identity stability, does not want to change this thousand-year tradition very much, so we have to assume that in the long term the country's administration, the bureaucracy in the country is one of the important prerequisites of our own expression and form of existence. [[10.30]] I would like to underline that, in addition to a strong state, so that Hungary does not lose the next ten years, we should not be defensive, we should not be reduced, we should not be less than what we are now, but we should be much stronger, we should be able to stay on our feet permanently, and indeed we should be able to be the leader of Central Europe again, in addition to a strong and good state, without effective, good administration, I think it is an impossible undertaking. Yes! I would not neglect the approaches to Hungary's competitive disadvantage from excessive bureaucracy. The fact that, based on the OECD studies, the number of people employed by the state in Hungary still today, when there are more than 4 million people, 4 million 300 thousand people, is still the highest number of voters who pay taxes on their work. And I'm not talking about public employment, I'm talking about bureaucracy. I'm talking about government employees, state control, government employees. This is 11 percent in the Czech Republic, Poland, 11 percent in Austria, 8 percent in Germany and 22-23 percent in Hungary. We're talking about over a million people. It was also difficult to count when the Prime Minister asked me to do this work and I undertook to do it. It's a sign of something. Of course, we are talking about a very difficult issue, because in a crisis, as we know since the period between the two world wars, state development programmes, state employment and state support are a very important aspect instead of a private economy. Therefore, the importance of public employment would not be underestimated, it could easily become a social policy problem, where appropriate, to reduce the number of people living in bureaucracy, public administration or public service. However, it is a talkative sign that, while in Hungary more than 20 percent of those who paid taxes on their own come from the public sector, this is 11 percent in the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, 8 percent in Germany and 11 percent in Austria. It's not negligible. Neither is the fact that today a company in Hungary has to spend 277 hours a year in order to comply with tax rules. It takes two hundred and seventy-seven hours of work for an entrepreneur and a business to comply with tax rules. I therefore believe that, in addition to the idea of a strong state, the aspect of having a competitive country is at least as important, and I would not avoid the role of public administration and bureaucracy in this. On the other hand, we are here to exercise public authority in a way that gives people an advantage and not a disadvantage. There is a theory that says that governments tend to make people's lives more difficult than they help. A great lesson, now that I have seen government work more closely for five years, is that when the government is on vacation, people are calmer and things are going better in the summer months. For some mysterious reason. It's probably no different than a central intervention, social engineering. But there is no doubt that governance cannot allow for that purpose, nor can it compromise the objective of improving the satisfaction of a good state, good governance, the satisfaction of society with the course of affairs, the satisfaction of everyday life not only through wages, but also through the functioning of the state, through public services. What I pay as a tax is what I get. I think this is the main issue of a civil society, a civil arrangement. I pay the taxes, what I get, what public health I get for it, what public education, what public administration, what public security, what public services I get in exchange for the tax paid. I have undertaken, on behalf of the Prime Minister, to try, in some points, with all the failures of the last 25 years, to help this case along with my colleagues; in some points, because I think that our strength and majority confidence, the opportunity of Parliament, must be focused and clarified. I don't think there's much to think about. I believe that, taking historical continuity into account, specific problems need to be solved that are the translator points of life. In this spirit, I think, in the coming months and years, there are areas where we need to work to reduce bureaucracy, strengthen the state and public administration. One of these is this package of laws, reducing bureaucracy in public administration when citizens meet with the state. This does not mean that there is no proposal in this package of laws that would reduce the internal bureaucracy of public administration and the state. How a legislator comes into contact with the executive power, how bureaucracy is within the executive power, we do not share it with the public now. It would be a cheap answer to the question of why things aren't going better in the country. We are trying to focus on changing bureaucracy and public administration affecting people. But that alone is not enough with the administration. There are three other areas, i.e. four, together with a change in public administration, which, in my opinion, is capable of making changes in people at the level of everyday life. I am not content to be praised by the elites of our own voters or our own political family; I would like to see you as Members of Parliament in 2018 meeting with a electorate in the electoral campaign to have a feedback from the electorate that something has improved. There's an everyday part of their lives that's gotten a lot better than it was. Therefore, we propose to the government that the possibilities of accessing EU funds reduce very strong bureaucracy, the bureaucracy of tax procedures and the bureaucracy of building matters, together with the bureaucracy of public administration. So I'm saying there are four things we can do to help people, and that could have a direct impact over the next year or two. Construction, tax procedures, access to EU funds and public administration when meeting people. These are the four areas that legislation will have to deal with in the coming months in the spirit of this work and in the interest of this work. I would also like to add that this is essentially a matter of political courage. Fidesz was able to reduce the number of people living in politics twenty years after the change in the regime by essentially reducing the Fidesz political class, from 25 thousand local representatives to 16 thousand local representatives, from 386 MPs to 199, the biggest losses were suffered by Fidesz cadres, quoting them at local, county and national levels. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No kidding. Moore from the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]] There aren't any better cadres yet. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Yet!]] That's why we can't talk about them. [[György Szilágyi: More!]] So Fidesz supporters and elected leaders of public trust suffered. We can then feel, as an example, empowered to start such a change in volume and depth, since today we are proposing to change 110 laws under a salad law. If we hadn't had the courage to reduce the political class, I wouldn't be able to stand before you and tell you what the subject of the experiment is. I would also like to say what it is that a voter meets in the internal administration, what it is that might help to move forward the country's affairs. First, let's look at the institutional system. How does the Hungarian state stand? In this, I think, despite the sharp political debate, we managed to find a consensual point when we set up the district office between 2010 and 14 and strengthened government offices in the last year. What do I mean? In 2014, the municipal and parliamentary elections took place without any political force questioning the fact that the country's administration, the services provided to people, was organised in 197 districts. No one has contested the legitimacy of the district system, no one has said that this is a bad system, no one wants to withdraw from it. Of course, there are always disputes as to where a walk should be bordered, where a settlement should belong; these are partial, detailed questions. The fact that the Hungarian state stands up and tries to provide services organised in 197 districts, 19 counties and a Budapest government office, i.e. 20 government offices, is accompanied by social support, which has also been shown by the parliamentary parties in the past period, since no one has questioned the validity of this. It is very important to set up a district administration system, which is partly a return to previous administrative traditions and, on the other hand, to set up government offices is a very important thing. And setting up isn't the most important thing here. Since 1873 the most important change in the Hungarian administration occurred on 1 April 2015, when the regional administration was concentrated in an organizational unit, while maintaining the ministerial system, which is the largest tradition of 6 April 1848 and which actually provides us with the possibility of developing a modern civil society. The change that the ministerial government management system is concentrated in government offices at territorial level and government offices have 197 walks, provides a simple, transparent, easy-to-finance, accountable, accountable, clear guidance system. Anyone who shoots the book of Zoltán Magyary as a Bible can receive instructions or thoughts to set up such a model, in which the speed and capacity of the state is a very important issue. I can tell you how many partial aspects of the establishment of the safety border seal that would have meant damage to the achievement of the main objective if the territorial administration had not been organised. Of course, the 18th. The result of more than 200 years of organic state development has been that every sector wants its own ministry and its own authority, because that is where every field sees its rights. [[10.40]] But I would add that the modern, efficient and fast state, the ability of the state to implement it, depends on how the territorial administration is organised. Here we are far from seeing this opportunity, and this will give all governments - even after 2018, all governments - the opportunity to act. There are people in this room who governed between 2002 and 2010. Noble, the goals adopted by the majority of society have been made impossible by fragmented, fragmented bureaucracy and public administration. Noble, supported by society, for example, has made it impossible in Miskolc to achieve goals of catching up, specifically, that there was no single, strong state hand that could have implemented the law in Parliament and the executive power could have taken over the will of the legislative majority. Because part points were raised, the system was shattered. There is also a reason for this, and there should be no misunderstanding, because in the system of democratic brakes and balances, the territorial administration was partly responsible, even within the executive power, for balancing overly strong central intentions. What I can tell you is that the work on where we provide services is done by the government. He completed where, since in 197 districts, by the spring of next year, in some 270-275 government offices, which have undergone full modernisation, he provides the administration quickly, efficiently, in a one-stop shop, in a form that meets all European requirements, all modernity requirements. Now, these days, in your constituencies, there is a handover of district-level government windows, modernisation government offices. You can personally experience the working conditions we have created, the conditions of administration we have created, especially with the money of European taxpayers. This work, I believe, is done. The next question is, in addition to where, how much does it cost to deal with matters. We will ask Parliament for support for a new bill, after we have requested the opinion of 400 thousand people, in order to reduce public service charges by HUF 10 billion from 1 January 2016. It is almost unbelievable that at the customer service desks of the district offices, 197 district offices, 400,000 answered the questions asked, and even made suggestions and opinions themselves as entrepreneurs or individuals. Of course, due to the usual loyalty of district offices in Central Europe, it may be easy to have documents filled out by themselves, but even if this is still 20 percent, there are 300 thousand people who volunteered at least to tell you what their problem is, what their opinion is, and what their proposal is about paid fees. And here we are talking about very simple things: issues relating to the exchange of identity cards, issues relating to the replacement of a moral certificate, costs of land ownership, fees for business card, fees and charges for official procedures. Together with the proposals you have formulated and supported, I hope, the government is ready to reach a significant reduction in tariffs and a reduction within the budget limit of ten billion. I asked my colleague, Secretary of State, Zoltán Kovács, to contact the political leaders of the parliamentary parties and ask the parliamentary factions to consult on how to reduce fees from 1 January 2016 so that the factions could join this joint work. So the question of how much we pay in addition to our personal income tax is a very important question and a measurable indicator of how public administration works. I am opening a parentheses because I would like to say that a lot of people in the entire public administration are hoping in the world that e-administration will bring about a substantial change. Creating the possibility of electronic administration and ensuring access. For some reason, those debates are avoided by Parliament as to the social requirements that digitalization entails in a person's life. I think that it contains a great opportunity for public administration, 476 cases can be dealt with today through government offices and government windows, as of 1 January, and from 2016, we would like to deal with 2 thousand cases from the end of the year, and most of them should be dealt with electronically by voters from 2018. We've got a few small problems. One: there is no such broadband internet capacity in four million households. To do this, we need to invest HUF 200 billion in Hungary to provide broadband internet access in four million households. Of course, IT education, learning about this world, recognising the risks of this world is also important, so the ability to use it is important. Because while providing personal customer service in 2,000 villages, we also need to digitize for electronic administration. I am concerned that, in addition to the current structure of Hungarian settlements, digital administration will solve everything in the next ten years. In my opinion, the Hungarian administrative traditions, the hope that I can handle it better in person, will remain a tradition in Hungary for many decades, which will encourage public administration and bureaucracy. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You must change it!]] We are working on changing it, Congresswoman, that is the essence of the presentation on the agenda. And now it's time for you to tell me what's going on. We talked about where we could change the administration, and the Cuba, let's say, will be pretty much fine. For how much, we are ready to consult with the parliamentary parties, of course, in addition to 380 thousand of our constituents, and the question is what. I would like to say here that this bureaucracy kills the normal functioning of the state, this bureaucracy is expensive, so less bureaucracy and less people who live on bureaucracy are needed. Without saying that, we will not be able to change the system. And here, of course, there will be insults of interest, because there is a library of specialities in the fact that bureaucracy creates the means of its own survival and development through legislation and legislation. When governments ordered a stop in this country for the last 20 years, 15,000 people were hired by the public administration in the year of the hitchhiking. When it was a hitchhiker! And the municipalities have $12,000. The number of people living in public money increased by 30,000 in the number of hitchhikers. What happened when there was no hitchhiking? So let us not have illusions, if we touch bureaucracy, sooner or later, either because of the laws that we are discussing in the digitalisation arm or in the legislative process, if there is less bureaucracy, in fact less bureaucracy, this could significantly reduce the number of statuses and jobs that have to live from public administration. Now, we've conducted an internal consultation here, because I believe unwaveringly that those who work in public administration know how to do it, are good professionals and need their opinion. Thus, since October 2014, we have constantly given 30,000 colleagues working in district offices the right and the opportunity to say how he believes that a change in law could make his work easier, and according to him, I mean, according to colleagues working in district administration or regional administration, what should be changed. 1107 ja There's iron coming from our employees, our co-workers. I believe that this is also an innovation from the point of view of the government. I am about to tell you that the ministries, entertaining Parliament with the internal charms of the executive power, from 1107 proposals from those working in public administration, said that it was impossible to achieve by 900. That was the starting point. 900 is unimaginable, they only took 100. This has now been dealt with by about 600 proposals from 1107 and we have also intervened in a package of laws, partly based on the ideas of government officials and partly on the ideas of government officials and district officials. This is a general bill in the sense that we are proposing four amendments to you, which regulate general principles and regulate general administration and political issues. Firstly, we are proposing, within the framework of the bill, that general procedural rules be simplified. This is related to the current and future regulatory framework of the Administrative Procedure Act. We're going to have principles here. We will also attempt to significantly reduce the scope of authorised activities. We're trying 25 things; I'm gonna talk about it. Thirdly, we are proposing to reduce administrative deadlines, and we are also proposing amendments to the legislation on certain official matters. So there will be specifics. Firstly, on the general procedural rules, I would like to briefly suggest to you a few things. First of all, I would like to say that in the context of the general procedural rules, the conceptual question of the law is how long it takes to deal with a case. What's the bureaucracy that makes people feel bad for them, the state doesn't take care of their affairs? First of all, the delay. I'll file a request, I'll file a request for permission, I'll file a complaint about my case, it's stretching, it's stretching, it's stretching. The first attempt in the last hundred years, when we are going to set an objective procedural deadline, is to say that in 60 days the state authority will have to take care of the matter. We don't want to give you an exception. [[10.50]] Lawmaking may grant exceptions; only by law or by government decree, legislation may grant exceptions. If the state or the state does not settle my case in 60 days, then first of all, the fee I paid will be refunded, if it was free, I will receive 10 thousand forints from the state as a quasi-compensation, and the presumption that what I have asked for will be granted. So there's an addicted legal situation that's about if the state's been quiet for 60 days, silent, legally silent, then if the case rests for 60 days, I'll start on Day 61 with the presumption that the state has nothing to say, so I can continue my activities. It's a conceptual change because it's based on the principle of trust. If the Hungarian state will not be able to reverse mistrust in the functioning of the state - including tax procedures, access to European Union funds, building procedures - and the Hungarian state will not be able to assume that the overwhelming majority of Hungarian society has a law-abiding attitude - that is point 1 - it cannot accept that anyone who wants to build, is designed by a builder, and that the architect complies with the rules, because he risks his entitlement, if the Hungarian State cannot accept that those who are entrepreneurs are not criminals, if the Hungarian State cannot accept that those who are applying for EU money do not want to steal it, then we will not be unable to change the bureaucracy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr. President, I'd like one more minute.
u2015-10-06-24	Here.
u2015-10-06-25	I ask your support for this. The proposal contains in detail the necessary procedural deadlines, the amendment of the General's deadline from 21 days and 30 days, from 60 days, from 90 days, and the continuous presentation of principles which, in my opinion and belief, are suitable for the promotion of public administration in the current general and then in the more detailed debate. On this basis, I will also present a third proposal for the administrative career model, which will improve the wage conditions of those working in the territorial administration by an average of 30 per cent from 1 July 2016, as it is not only a question of where, how much and what, but also of who is dealing with our affairs and who needs guarantees. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-26	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Balázs Simon Róbert, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-10-06-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, bureaucracy: this concept, created in 1745 by French economist Vincent de Gournay, expresses a summary of the behaviour, attitudes and lifestyle of officials in the common language, or even a kind of depreciative, almost negative criticism of the state apparatus, the public administration. The bureaucracy and its representatives, bureaucrats and officials remind me of their guardians, who act only in the spirit of regulations, norms, rules, act coldly and indifferent to citizens, and reject and deny any other conduct other than the norm. Since its creation, the meaning of the concept has changed significantly on a number of occasions. Today, bureaucracy is a negative phenomenon, primarily referring to the negative aspects of the operation of public and municipal offices, in particular the slowness and unnecessary complexity of the procedure, the pushing of files, the removal of liability. It is also a feature of bureaucracy that it normally requires proof of all claims in the form of various documents that allow the client to be ordered several times. The law of Parkinson or the School of Enforcement, which presents bureaucracy with the greatest possible irony and sarcasm. Our task is, in fact, to rebut this text. However, many people are right about the sentence of the work, which reads: "The work is always drawn up to fill the time available for the task to be performed. This is why it is no coincidence that one of the central elements of the bill is the reduction of time limits in administrative procedures in general. I would add that, as Vice Mayor of Győr, between 2006 and 2014, I have rarely experienced that excessive bureaucracy would be due to the attitude of the apparatus. Rather, the unnecessary rules that put officials under pressure, which slow down the day-to-day operation of the offices, often put the desired decision or order in an unattainable distance. At the same time, there must also be some bad nerves that are rightfully picking up the paper pushing indicator on the part of the annoying applicant. Ladies and gentlemen, We could say that the government took on a difficult but important task when it set the objective of cutting red tape in public administration. The bill before us is not the first step that we want to take in this direction - let us just think about creating an institution of one-stop shop - but it can be a significant milestone, especially if the approach that comes from the spirit of the law affects all of the apparatus. I consider it important to set an example of the highest level of public administration, which is why I note that the Government decision of 1475/2015 adopted on 20 July also set a rather short deadline for preparing legislative amendments to simplify certain official matters. In the context of the simplification of administrative procedures, the decision called on ministers to draw up legislative amendments to the administrative bureaucracy reduction on the basis of proposals from government offices in Budapest and in the county that they supported. At the same time, the same legislation drew the attention of Prime Minister János Lázár, who led the Prime Minister's Office, to present a single proposal for amendments to the legislation on administrative bureaucracy reduction received from ministers, as has just been proposed, 1107 such simplification proposals. Today, we can hold a general debate on this bill, which, as a result of what has been said, tries to reduce bureaucracy on the basis of practical experience. As stated in the general reasoning of the bill, as regards the simplification of the general procedural rules, the bill is not subject to Article CXL of 2004 on general rules for administrative procedures and services. full review of Law 1352/2015 on certain tasks related to the preparation of the Act on Administrative Rules and the General Administrative Rules. the timetable set out in the government decision. The Ket. However, minor amendments to certain procedural acts are essential to reduce bureaucracy. The rules on individual administrative matters are laid down in the general and, on the other hand, in the specific procedural rules. In view of the interrelated procedural provisions, proposals to reduce bureaucracy cannot be achieved only by amending the specific procedural rules; it is also necessary to amend the general rules. The amendments to these general rules are set out in chapter 53 of the draft legislation. In view of the fact that I have repeatedly referred to the shortening of time limits in my speech, I would like to highlight the Ke. 33. the amendment of §8 of the Act. In the future, the legislation states that the deadline for the determining authority and the administrative authority set in Ket is lower than that laid down by law, so that a government decree cannot be laid down. The possibility of extending the administrative deadline for the Authority will therefore be abolished. In our current legislative environment, it is a typical example of administrative regulation that, using the possibilities provided for in Ket., sectoral legislation sets a longer time limit than the general 21-day administrative deadline, as well as different rules for extending and suspending the procedure. In practice, this means that a decision can be made sooner than building permits, market surveillance procedures or labour controls, for example. I consider it an important and customer-friendly provision to further develop the institution of legal silence. Since the entry into force of the legislation, a client applying for a right shall receive, on the basis of the amendment, a decision within eight working days of the authority having suspensory effect that, if the authority does not take a different substantive decision within two months of the initiation of the procedure, the amount corresponding to the levy or fee payable for the conduct of the proceedings, or, failing that, HUF 10 thousand, shall be paid to the client, the applicant client shall be exempted from payment of the procedural costs and, except for specific exceptions, the exercise of the right applied for shall be the responsibility of the client. This is not the only case in the bill that puts the failure or error of the authority on the account of the client, in this case in a good way. [[11.00]] The bill provides for a general exemption from the procedure for first instance administrative procedures which the client has to initiate solely because of an infringement, error or failure of the authority previously made. Many have seen in recent years that, on the grounds that the first instance authority has not sufficiently clarified the circumstances, the first instance body has been obliged to initiate a new procedure. The new procedure was, of course, also a re-start of deadlines and annoyance for the client. From now on, it won't be possible. In the case outlined, the second instance authority should also carry out the procedure of proof in the future, if it sees the need to do so. The introduction of a sommal procedure means that the authority will take a decision within 8 days instead of 21 days. This is possible if the client fulfils all the conditions necessary for the settlement of the case at the time of the application and there is no counter-custodian client in the case. In such a case, therefore, an immediate decision may be taken. Another reason for the delay in clients and cases has recently been a broad interpretation of the reasons for suspension and the excessive, partly unjustified application of suspensions. The Ket. The amendment before us limits the possibility of suspending official procedures. The amendment narrows the scope of the suspension cases to the cases laid down by law, ensuring that the legal institution is applied only in justified cases. Finally, I would like to highlight from the changes to the general rules the provision which states that the authorities can only communicate with each other by electronic means in the course of legal assistance and that in other cases of legal assistance, the request must be transmitted by electronic means. Dear Parliament, An important element of the planned changes is that more things will be done electronically by the offices and a number of small, simplified steps will be taken to facilitate the administration of individuals and companies from January 2016. For example, the vehicle registration system may request the technical status and history of a particular vehicle in electronic form, like the search for a land registry. This analogy may also be used in court executions. For the purposes of obtaining data on the identity of the debtor and on the debtor's place of residence, income and assets subject to enforcement, the administrator may also electronically contact the authorities or entities that have been electronically registered. It is undoubtedly a fact that the introduction of the e-card in the Hungarian administration is one of the most prominent initiatives that the Parliament has already decided on. The bill before us provides citizens with the possibility of electronic certification of the tax identification number. In the context of the reduction of bureaucracy, certain authorisation procedures will be abolished by transforming previously authorised activities into notification procedures. In the cases concerned, official control may continue to be carried out by means of control rather than by the authorisation procedure. Thus, the activity may start at a predictable time after notification in cases subject to notification instead of a licence. For formal reasons, the procedure does not extend, in the absence of a formal decision, the time lost by notification and redress will be eliminated. Among these activities, I would highlight the activities of real estate brokers, cultural experts and health professionals. But I could also say in this context the establishment of animal shelters and shelters, or the activity of traveling brokers, the commercial activity of the marketing of jewellery and ornamental articles of precious metal. It is important to point out that the substantive rules relating to these activities do not change, i.e. they can continue under the same conditions as before. The competent authority shall continue to monitor and sanction unauthorised persons. There is a strong emphasis in the bill that customers should not be obliged to request a specific moral certificate or a transfer of data to the public authority for the purposes of initiating the relevant professional activities in respect of data which are otherwise included in the records of a public body, such as criminal records. According to the amendment, the power to transmit and process data is granted by law to any administrative authority in the process or control of which evidence is required on the basis of data processed in the criminal record system. This method will also apply in the future in the fields of OSH, environment, aviation and finance. Ladies and Gentlemen, The question arises what a Hungarian citizen might think about all this. In my opinion, any measure involving the need to obtain less paper for money that the agency has in principle and needs to handle less, and more easily, can only be a good decision. The reduction of bureaucracy is also a key issue for the national economy, since it is estimated that it represents 7 per cent of total GDP. As in other areas, a radical change in previous attitudes and practices is needed in order to further improve the country's competitiveness. Reducing bureaucracy and increasing competitiveness are also of the utmost importance because our regional competitors are not idle, they are tirelessly fighting for the same goals. Effective measures are needed in order to be successful in the region and in the international field. This includes reducing public bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's T/6410. We are fulfilling our constitutional obligation by adopting a bill amending the law on administrative bureaucracy. As the lead speaker of the Fidesz faction, I would like to say that our faction supports the bill, and I would also ask the members of the other parliamentary factions to do the same. Thank you for giving me the honor of your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-06-28	Thank you, Congressman Simon. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-10-06-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I was pleased to hear your otherwise extremely high-quality speech. In parentheses, I note where we are from the speech made by János Lázár to decide whether we are on the side of the defense lawyers who receive the money or on the other side where we enforce the state's rights. [[János Lázár: This is what the government does.]] That was a particularly interesting speech, and I hope you are far from it, Minister, and we can view that concept as the past. [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] Therefore, I will start a little before I planned a relatively short speech, as Minister did not mention the provisions of the law in the first place. He basically left this to the lead speaker of Fidesz, but rather he had a theoretical, state-theoretical, administration-theoretical speech. Of course, it's an eternal dilemma that on the imaginary line where dictatorship stands at one point and anarchy at the other, where we take our place when we determine what state arrangement we choose. Obviously, as usual in life, none of the extremes are good. It is not by accident that standards or, if you like, the rules that constitute a political culture that fill the idea of the rule of law, some of which appear in written form, such as international binding standards, state-binding standards or the provisions of the constitutions, and the other part of this, of course, are part of the political custom, which is more difficult to enforce either in domestic law enforcement, in legislation or in international fora, in international proceedings. I can say, while we are at it, that you have quit this, Minister, in the last five years, and have acted like the elephant in the porcelain shop: you believe and thought, and Mr. Minister's speech - which I once again consider to be a high-quality speech, although I fundamentally disagree with it - is about whether the system of brakes and balances or the division of power is a barrier to development, whether it is the classic or more modern trends, that is to say, the rule of law and, above all, the idea of the rule of law. [[11.10]] In this spirit, you have ruled over the past four to five years, and in this spirit, you have made legislation, some of which amended the Constitution and later the Fundamental Law. In this spirit, Minister Trócsányi was also represented in one of the forums, if I remember correctly, at one of the events of the Bar Association or the Legal Society, where, to sum up, at least if I understood that text correctly, these two words were definitely in it; in his opinion, there is a consensual and there is a majority democracy, and we now live in the majority. I think that if we go this way, we are moving in a very wrong direction, and in this respect I do not fully share Minister Lazarus' position, as regards the order of state and its structure. And the contrast that the system of brakes and counterweights and a certain limitation thereof facilitate competitiveness, I think, is simply not true, cannot be compared to these two aspects. If one raises the question of whether reducing bureaucracy can increase competitiveness, then I say that yes, but it is not the reduction of the level of the rule of law, it is not the reduction of the system of brakes and balances, and it is the denial of the doctrine of division of power that increases competitiveness. It has been shown in a number of places, my fellow Members... - and without going into the way in which Hungary is now functioning, as autocracy, as a controlled democracy, that is not the point. The point is that in states where there is a very strong central power in your understanding, it is almost recognised that there is no democratic, but that there is an autocratic or dictatorial system in place, and sometimes, for a short period of time, progress seems to start, but on the one hand, it is not true for every state, there is not even a beginning, and where it started, it will not be successful in the long term. That is why I urge everyone, of course, to imagine progress and development within the framework of the reduction of bureaucracy, but also within the framework of state alignment to the highest possible level of rule of law brakes and balances, because I think that this is the way forward. There may be a difference in our opinion with the Minister, that's what I believe. There's one thing I'd like to quote, we often use historical models. All of a sudden, I've been looking at one that's a long way from us. The Republic of Venice had a strong state order, practically the XII. mid-century and XIVth century C.E. It was created and stood up between the first half of the century. It was then perhaps the purest, and then later it was a bit nuanced by the establishment of the Council of the Tens and the State Inquisition, but one thing is certain that this order of state ensured that Venice was more stable than all the medieval states in Europe. It is a much more stable and richer state, and if we look at progression, wealth and state prosperity, then I think that Venice was untraceable in view of medieval Europe, where not only the elite were rich, but also the ordinary citizens lived well. Here the Senate had a resolution that said that we would remain slaves to our laws at all times so that we could remain free. What a difference this is, fellow Members, compared to when you adapt not only the laws but also the constitution itself to their current political intentions, when you adopt in two years more than ten amendments to the constitutions plus five proposals amending their new Fundamental Law. That is, personalised legislation, adapting it to current political conditions, does not result in results or good results. I certainly had to say this in a prerogative about what Minister Lazarus said. The other thing, as I said, is that I wouldn't mess the administration with the state order. These two are terribly different. The point, honourable Members, is how power works, because, as Minister Lazarus said, the administration has one task to serve that current power arrangement objectively. If the administration is good, then, as the Minister said, the life of a dictatorship can be extended, a dictatorship can actually - and let me put it in a double quotation mark - function well. Of course, I can raise it, and in this respect I can deny it a little bit, because since István Bibó, if I remember correctly, he told me in his chair booking in the Academy that the administration - and he is absolutely right, and there is no longer a professional who thinks otherwise - can actually be regarded as an independent power blooper in modern democracies today. So it's not just what the Minister said, and I'm also arguing, by the way, basically, that a state arrangement - whether it's good or bad - is its server, its objective server is the public administration, its independent power foc, of course, if the administration is allowed to function that way. If the dictatorship does not recognize or a democracy does not recognize that this is a value, then, of course, it can cease to be a power fob, but on the other hand, it will not play the role that is necessary to maintain a stable state. I would also like to refer here to what many have already said, that they have actually screwed with the country and themselves when, by the way, civil servants experienced in the administration were replaced with their own clientele. There have been many disadvantages of this country and its legislation, and there have been incredible proposals to Parliament that we have failed to improve and then we have not won four, five times, some that we have to bring back to the walls of this House six times, because we had to modify it. This was the result, Minister, of kicking out professionals and putting in place loyal people for you, undoubtedly making your own business easier politically, but in contrast, they have made their government work considerably difficult and have caused this country unheard of damage. What I cannot go without saying, Minister, on the one hand, was of the opinion that the system, the administrative system that you have established, is in the interests of the people, and is good, and of course, Minister said that it is important for the local government, whether on the other hand, and from the point of view of the role that the local administration plays in the system of brakes and balances, or from what it gives to the citizens living there, it seems that citizens appreciate this quite differently. We had a survey based on a sample of 5,000 people, that we were obviously customers in this, and professional companies surveyed it, and the vast majority of people, Mr. Minister, are against centralization, that's what came out. And not in itself what we have talked about here at the theoretical level between Parliament's walls, but in particular that the powers that have been taken away from the municipalities, the responsibilities that have made the lives of the people who live there easier. The tasks and powers in which local communities could change and relocated to a central government structure were withdrawn. It's a very bad experience for people. Most people don't like it. It is, of course, possible to introduce a number of models, which put the local government a little behind and put state control first, and may be the opposite. One thing we know for sure is that people think you guys are out of line with centralization, and they don't like this system. [[11.20]] The other thing I would like to point out, Minister - and I cannot go without a word, not for theoretical reasons, but because it is simply unfair if it stays in the air - is it saying that you and your people have suffered the greatest disadvantage because the Parliament is divided in half or because the number of municipal representatives has decreased? Minister, I'm sure you're forgetting how these people were compensated. If we look at if there's any of your former representatives left without work, I don't think I can find one who can. I don't think I can find one. They became heads of government offices, district officials, mid- and senior executives in public companies, owners or managers in private companies that receive government orders. That is the case, Minister. Those who have been badly affected by this, I think that if we are already looking at political sides and not generally society, then those opposition parties, not the ruling parties, are. I think that this should not be left in the air because what the Minister has said is deeply unfair. One more thought. In terms of efficiency and legal certainty or warranty rights in public administration, I can move much more towards what you say, Minister - and we also support this proposal, which lies before us - to put efficiency first at the expense of warranty rights, but that is simply because here the warranty rights were basically or in many places for the state and not for the citizen. The citizen must be given guarantee rights against the power of state, and if it is possible to increase efficiency by restricting the power of state for the sake of rapid operation and citizens, then let us do so, we agree with it. So I can identify with that view. I would like to say one thing that should be considered: it is also worth meeting the conditions of material justice when we take administrative decisions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Give me 30 seconds, Mr. President. I would like to ask the Minister one question, which is perhaps the most important: was there an impact assessment so that these measures could be implemented? And I'd like to ask you, how do you plan on doing this? By the way, if we have the structural and financial background, we will be able to support this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-06-30	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-10-06-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, As an opposition representative, man has always felt a great urge for thought soaring, because the laws tabled had to be contradicted, and usually a law tabled has always given him numerous opportunities. Now, however, this is the law where an opposition speaker, if he makes an objection to the law, has a harder task than admitting that basically we have a law that is eligible, and I believe that Parliament will support this by a large majority, because he is customer-friendly and has the interests of citizens in mind. At the same time, it is a law that we all have the urge to deal with theoretical questions. That's what I do when I mention when I mention that bureaucracy, in a scientific sense, has a whole different meaning than what ordinary people attribute to it in everyday language. If we look at bureaucracy in a social scientific sense, we are talking, say, about Max Weber as an organization; he is the lawyer who perhaps described bureaucracy as an organization to the full. In a social scientific sense, we can also mention that bureaucracy is often considered to be the equivalent of the state, so that bureaucracy is identified mainly by the enforcement authority. And there is a social science approach that considers bureaucracy to be non-market-compliant, i.e. all the bureaucracy that is contrary to the logic of the market. The everyday approach is much simpler, of course, and the experience of ordinary people sees bureaucracy not as an organization and is not measured by the functioning of the market, but the ordinary man says that behind bureaucracy he usually sees a negative phenomenon, because bureaucracy creates difficulties for him, limits him, his affairs are not dealt with late, they create unnecessary obstacles for him. At the same time, of course, ordinary people know that the operation of bureaucracy, i.e. the functioning of the apparatus, is necessary for the functioning of the state. I propose that we not think about the ordinary approach and not look at a scientific approach, but simply look at bureaucracy as a tool, a well-functioning or malfunctioning tool in the functioning of the state. Of course, bureaucracy or Hungarian bureaucracy - which this law is also working on - can also be understood as an organization, the government of the present time has a very big role in shaping this organization, and it has shaped this organization, and we are living, even now, in times of government transformation, when we see the movement of this organization, we see that this organization is in motion. The Orbán government started by completely transforming the central administration's organisation, creating the structure of the Grand Ministry, and what I think is most important, creating a single system of government offices at territorial level, including the district system, and creating a sort of division of tasks between municipalities and the state, basically moving from municipalities to the state in terms of the performance of state tasks, which I approve of, because I believe that there have been clearer conditions, and that the state is able to enforce these clearer relations more effectively. However, bureaucracy is also a staff. With regard to staff, the Minister said that he would come before the House with a law that would regulate and shape the life prospects and career prospects of this staff. However, bureaucracy is also a regulated procedure. In this package of laws, which we have before us, we are essentially looking to deal with this procedure, because it is the procedure that largely determines the operation of bureaucracy, and even this procedure does not give rise to any red tape. If this procedure is appropriate and the bureaucratic organisation, the state apparatus, works as we would like, then we can say that the operation of bureaucracy is an important competitiveness factor. So when we measure the state's effectiveness and measure the state's competitiveness in this regard, bureaucracy must be a key factor in this. This law aims at transforming administrative procedures, seeking general and specific administrative procedures, simplifying and speeding up procedures, and therefore our objective is not secretly to reduce the administration of citizens and entrepreneurs. To do so, it uses a variety of instruments, perhaps four, to be exact. This package of laws amends - I note that it is roughly 110 amendments to laws - the administrative procedural law; perhaps this is the most important element. And even if we know it's the Ket, it's also intended to modify it. Its comprehensive amendment is also on the agenda, and it is not only the administrative procedural law, but also the complete reflection of the administrative procedure; it will obviously complete the series of steps that we are now attempting to take as a first step. The Ket. In addition to its amendment, this package of laws seeks to reduce procedures subject to authorisation as an instrument. This was also mentioned by the Minister. It's a question of trust that what the authorities allowed yesterday, because it had a tradition, you simply acknowledge it from tomorrow onwards. This means a different culture, a different spirituality, and, of course, besides taking note of that particular activity. [[11.30]] It is an important tool in this package of laws to try to reduce administrative deadlines; and the fourth tool - obviously to make things work - is the Ket. In addition to its amendments, the rules concerning certain official matters are amended. If I were to draw attention to the most important amendment in the remaining time, I would mainly talk about deadlines. It is an untenable practice to set a general procedural time limit, but in this law, in which this general procedural time limit is set, we also give the power to legislate and with other, lower level of legislation, these procedural time limits can be granted. If we follow this procedure, then every sector, every authority, alive with its own importance, will certainly think as to why its affairs cannot be dealt with in the general procedural deadline, why these deadlines should be increased. This will not be possible in the future, which is prohibited by the law and says that a lower level of legislation or a government decree cannot extend deadlines, only another law can allow that. The institution of suspension is important, which is also a matter of deadlines. Knowing Ket and the practice of public administration, it is not exaggeration to say that the authority itself and the client have had countless opportunities to increase procedural deadlines. In the future, the law does not allow this to happen, but only in the case of procedures governed by law, it is possible to modify the deadlines. The way the authorities interacted with each other or interacted with each other was also clearly a factor that had a significant impact on the deadlines. When we now have the electronic administration, one of the achievements of the era, I think it is important to conclude that when authorities seek each other with legal aid, they should do so in this field, because it obviously accelerates administration. A very important amendment is a matter of second degree, in which this package of laws brings a fundamental new one. In the future, the second degree will not have the opportunity, if, let us say, the facts were not sufficiently clear, to push the procedure back to the first instance, to start from scratch, with deadlines for redress, and to start a state operation, which will end with indecisionlessness and decision-breaking. In the future - this law sets out this issue - the second will act as a substantive authority and, if necessary, will take evidence procedures to clarify the facts and either approve the decision of the first instance or change it. It is important to consider and continue the institution of legal silence. If, within two months, the authority does not take a decision to the contrary, the right to which the proceedings have been initiated, to which the application has been made, shall become enforceable. I think, Honourable Parliament, that when the government wants to implement the concept of a good state through the second term of government, it must be able to break through the bureaucratic obstacles that have already been created. It takes strength. I have taken part in this type of work under authority, and I know how much we suffered when we expected from the apparatus itself ideas on how to rationalize the functioning of the apparatus, because they have other ideas, but obviously they do not have their own rules of procedure. I think that now, because I see this as a breakthrough, that such a bill is before us, it has succeeded because the wallet which is the author of it and which - this Prime Minister's Office - was the driving force behind the government administration, behind which there is government power, and was able to break down the resistance of the wallets, so that this law could come before us. There have been countless attempts at this before, and I've never been able to. I have unbroken belief that the Ket. a comprehensive amendment and further changes to the administrative procedure system, a career model, which is very important from the citizen's point of view, a package of laws that will come, which will mean the abolition of certain levies, procedural charges, will bring billions of savings to citizens, all of which are steps that will improve the well-being of citizens, the well-being of businesses, but what is more important is that it can be assessed as a factor of competitiveness, and in substance, therefore, this bill will be supported by the KDNP fraction. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-10-06-32	Thank you, Congressman Harghitai. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-06-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We have a very important proposal ahead of us and, listening to Minister Lazarus' speech, we can also discover a lot of truth in it. It is a little sad that you did not wait for the debate and opposition contributions, and therefore I can only trust that the proposals will get to him, because the words are beautiful and can be understood most of all, how this is done in practice, this is the question. There are some points in the proposal before us, which will indeed provide guarantees in practice, so that a procedure may not be delayed. Such is the two-month deadline, after which if the authority fails to settle the case, the authorisation is deemed to be granted. Of course, this can be verified later, following the rules. It's a good pass. This is a guarantee that is enshrined in the law, and therefore everyone can claim that this right should be granted to him at the end of the two months. However, the reduction of administrative deadlines is well-sounded, but given the practice, we are a little sceptical about it. I'll also explain why. Who doesn't want to cut administrative deadlines? When you hear that, you think that people's affairs will simply be dealt with faster, of course, it's in everyone's best interest. In the same way as electronic administration, we have talked about this a lot, but it has not been sufficiently spread, although there have been efforts to do so, and the repeal exercise for the second-degree authorities. By the way, this is true in many cases for the courts, and we have seen from the Curia's account that this was not observed in a good practice. It is true that either make a decision at second instance, so either approve the decision at first instance or change it, but the fact that a new procedure is launched is an amazing drag on cases. It's hard to get involved in this on its own. However, I still have a fear of it, and I would like to say this in the general introduction, how this will look in practice. At the moment we see it, and here we have tried to reduce the deadlines before, I am thinking of the Parliament, but the authorities either can't handle this case and they live with tricks, or they are quite simply... And that may be justified, because they may not have enough administrators, or for other reasons, or they may come up with other ways from amenities. Here, the general justification also includes a reduction in the possibility of suspending the procedure, and then it includes the need for the authorities to take the decision. Yeah, it just happens often that this decision will be rejected, and let's just say it doesn't give rise to a deficiency, because they see that the deadline will not fit, and then rather, it will be rejected for a given reason, and then, when the client re-submits it, it will be considered a new procedure. In many cases, similar events have occurred in the case of land offices. By the way, I have also questioned the opinions of fellow practitioners about what they are experiencing, as we know that we can bring in any legislation here in Parliament that the administrator, who sits at the bottom of the hierarchy, often underpaid... So if there will be some kind of increase in wages that John Lazarus promised here, it will be very good, because the very people who come in contact with customers most often take very little money home, and there will be rejections, if I have already set an example, in the ground office procedures, even in the typification of a letter, they will throw the whole material back and not give out a replacement. [[11.40]] This, let's say, in the case of a sale, where someone has already paid the full purchase price and the entire contract is discarded, not just an obligation to make up for a loss, this has also resulted in a very serious violation of the law. And, you know, there's one more - and I'm just talking about life experience, so it's possible to talk about nice things here - that the legislation in force doesn't always get to the administrator, because he doesn't have this, no matter how much we say he can reach it, of course there are free laws on the Internet, but it's even true for NAV resolutions, even though the NAV issues a resolution on what, say, in a land office procedure, in real estate proceedings, is expected if the administrator is not informed or instructed by his boss about how to act, even with the legislation in force, they do not think they should take it into account. That much too much, I must say, is often taken out of machinery, and the environment of bureaucracy is not only the law, but also the practice. So people just don't dare to make decisions about people who work there, or don't have the right to make decisions, or that if they do, they're afraid that even laws will be complied with, if their boss didn't tell them to go away from a wrong practice. For this reason, I consider this to be just a starting step in the direction of real bureaucracy reduction, not to mention - and this is once again an example of presenting it to the Honourable National Assembly - that I received a report from a national government that they had to account for HUF 200,000, and that they had received it from the Ministry of Human Resources by way of a tender, but because of the 27 percent VAT, the invoice came out to HUF 199 999, which was submitted, and this 1 HUF rounding could not be resolved for many months. Do you know how it turned out? The fact that, after several ten hours of work, that one forint had to be transferred for 240 HUF, a certificate was required for 1600 HUF that this had happened, a dozen registered letter letters with the Ministry, and then two more people came out to check several times the invoices that were machine invoices and only printed them, but they wanted to see the machine invoice printed in the original, of which up to 50 can be printed out in a row, because it is a machine system. These are the problems, and the legislation would have given us the opportunity not to deal with matters in this way. So we need to change a mentality, which, I know, is the hardest one, but at certain points, we may be moving forward. I would like to highlight - because time is losing dangerously - a point or two where I feel that regulation is going in a positive or perhaps questionable direction. First of all, if we are talking about large numbers, how much simplification this law contains, I would like to point out as an example that, in the case of an independent technical expert acting in the field of nuclear energy, he does not need to obtain a moral certificate, but does so automatically in relation to the exchange of data between the two bodies, it is, of course, good, but obviously, these measures will not affect the mass of people. Of course, I do not want to speak against these experts, but when we talk about big numbers, how many times you simplify these procedures, such cases are included, which do not affect too many people. Then we will find some of the consumer protection provisions that I would like to criticise. At present, the rule that we adopted at the end of 2013 was supported by Jobbik, as regards consumer protection rapporteurs, is that businesses which are not small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. businesses with more than 250 people, are currently required to do so, they say that it is unjustified to maintain this, and that it will be only possible for large businesses to be the consumer rapporteur in the future. We do not think this is good, because a company with more than 250 employees should be required to deal with consumers. It is not enough that 95 percent or 98 percent of these companies do, and let's say they operate all kinds of customer services, which will not do so if necessary. Then, of course, it is to be welcomed that, for example, in the case of animal shelters or in various fields of expertise, such as electric filling stations, the procedure will become simpler and unauthorized, and these would really only be subject to excerpts, just as in the case of the grace powers, so that in the case of returned ashes, the persons receiving the will benefit can pay their respects, these are all important steps, but I have to say that they are only part of the package. A very important point in the area of indignity procedures was the practice of municipal representatives, and this is what the law is trying to change - this is to be welcomed - that the data from the state authority to the municipality were not always sufficiently obtained or that the representative was... Here I point out, of course, the lack of decency with regard to public debts, so in many cases it was possible to play the tickle-chuchi that someone had a public debt, but did not report it, the local government was more difficult to ask from the register, and often local notaries were involved in this, when the question was, say, the inadequacy or public debt of a politician belonging to a majority or majority group. We hope that this situation will change somewhat in the future. We also welcome the many procedures, so this could also be a good way to decide within 8 days or, in the absence of the conditions, to switch to general rules, but we find - and I must stress this - procedures that should not have been accelerated, and that is the scope of the priority investments. We have repeatedly criticised - this has been introduced by the socialists at the time - the investments of high importance. This has now fallen into this circle, where the head of the authority cannot extend the deadline by 15 days, or the head of the administration by an additional 8 days, and the shortening of the deadline is not positive, but is very negative, because we have already criticised that there is no adequate way for the authorities to act with due care for these important investments, and now they will not even have the opportunity to extend this deadline. And I think it's obviously just an assumption that, if you don't have the right conditions, if you don't have the right conditions, if you don't, you're going to be denied enough, but if the pressure comes from above, you're going to have government pressure, you're going to have authority on your feet, which, say, dares to refuse it, or you're going to be an authority leader who dares to take it. My colleague Mrs Loránt Hegedűs cannot be here for the debate, but he asked me to highlight the amendment to the national structural plan as well as the fact that the technical infrastructure networks of national importance, which had to be identified so far, were required for a long-term planning, could in the future be appointed in the light of the plan, which, according to the profession, will result in rapid and insufficiently thoughtful decisions on national infrastructure. We do not know what the government or the Prime Minister's Office must have thought here when they submitted this, but, unfortunately, I do not expect an answer to this round, although it would be good to know, and, as I said, there are always some government measures buried in such tiny details that citizens or those living in the area of that investment can later drink. Then another point, which I did not understand, I will tell you frankly, although it is a simplification, but here again I see a reduction in consumer rights in the proposal that, contrary to what has been done so far in the case of the application for a financial lease on mortgages and real estate, which meant that a quasi-contractual moratorium had been in place for 7 days, so that the consumer had to receive the contract, it was modified so that the consumer could terminate this contract by a unilateral declaration at any time. [[11.50]] This, of course, sounds good to give the consumer the right to do so, but this will not be the practice. We are well aware that if, say, a financial institution has the opportunity, say, to give up a certain right to the consumer, it will pass on that statement and have it cancelled. Therefore, such intervened provisions, which seem to be accelerated, are not good if they are, by the way, withdrawing rights in practice. Because, of course, it can be said that everyone can decide to sign the contract, but that's why they invented consumer protection provisions to protect citizens who do not have such knowledge. So we look forward to further speeches in the debate, and we will then decide on our opinion and on how the government will respond to what has been said. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-34	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-10-06-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It is a relatively large and substantive legislative amendment, which contains a lot of elements, and it is therefore very difficult to judge it in a uniform manner. In advance, I would like to assure Mr State Secretary that the proposal contains a lot of elements that we believe are eligible for support and that some simplifications are in the interest of society, but allow me not to emphasise them, with the relatively many sections that we agree with, but let me clarify some other facts. It is also very, very important in this clarification how the credibility of the proposal itself stands, depending on the fact that a lot of legislation that has been created over the past five years and has been withdrawn in virtually a few things that have increased and deteriorated in the previous period. This bill, according to government communication, is also needed to reduce expenditure on state leaders. This is certainly a welcome goal in itself, and on the road to a cheaper state can be a very useful step, but it is worth taking a look at the picture of where this government started, the promises it made and how it came to this state. It is important to talk about this because in most cases the approach of the legislative proposal focuses on deadlines. The author thinks that a little less time-limits and a little faster everywhere is enough to reduce bureaucracy in itself. However, there is obviously a need for much more, for as long as, in the course of legislative standards, almost all things need to be dealt with by independent law and harmony, as long as we maintain a high bureaucratic system, this alone cannot be achieved. And this is important, because before 2010, Fidesz repeatedly pointed out that the state apparatus, the ministries, are full of unnecessary positions for a culture, but it is really unnecessary for the functioning of the state apparatus. This was the position of Fidesz continuously before 2010, and the reduction in the number of ministries seemed to go in the direction originally promised by Fidesz, i.e. a slimmer, cheaper state. However, the reality disintegrated very quickly, or reality confronted Hungarian society that we were not heading entirely towards what Fidesz promised, because there was no serious intention in the right-wing government of actually reducing expenditure and implementing the most effective administration. Obviously, there is a great deal of data on this, and it has to be seen that, despite this proposal, the government has failed in its plan to convert the state. So even though he has been carving it for five years now, with ever-increasing changes, the government, the amount of money spent on state apparatus workers and probably the number of workers is increasing. One of the main promises of the Orbán government was to radically transform the state, compared to this, the transformation was indeed done, but not in a positive direction. In June of this year, Minister János Lázár, the rapporteur, acknowledged that the attempt to transform the state had failed and that this should be rethinked. When we took the presentation into our hands, it seemed that this rethink might happen, but we see only a few changes in the legislative norm and in the reduction of time limits. In many ways, the centralisation of statistical data from the municipality to the government is influenced by the situation in 2010, but the centralization direction we saw either in the case of rural municipalities or in the case of KLIK or in the case of government communication was completely contrary. If we are talking about cutting red tape, we need to talk about the number of people employed in budgetary organisations in 2009 being 247 thousand, then in 2010 being 251 thousand, in 2011 261,000, in 2013 being 517 thousand, and in the last year there were 534 thousand in the state apparatus. If I increase the number of the apparatus more than double, it is hard to imagine that this will lead to a reduction in government costs. On the other hand, there has been a decrease in the number of municipal workers, but we are still experiencing a significant increase between 2009 and 2014, and there is not only a quantitative decrease, but also a qualitative deterioration, as centralisation has in many cases significantly reduced efficiency. The state could say yes, but not only the number of people is influencing, but also the costs. But if we look at the local government's personal allowances and budgetary staff allowances, we also see the same ratio between 2009 and 2015 in a continuous increase. In 2014, we have already spent over 1,800 billion on the allocation of central budget bodies. Obviously, they always say, it's certainly not by accident that the fish reeks of its head, because it's the same thing in the direct management of the government. In 2010, there were 12,000 leaders among civil servants, government officials and civil servants, and in 2014 there were 5 thousand more, 17 thousand. The growth was partly driven by the expansion of the public sector, the adoption of leaders from local authorities, but overall, both cost increases and staff increases have clearly resulted in a major increase in red tape over the last five years. Efforts to dismantle this can be useful, but it can also hide risks. Obviously, rules that simplify, for example, health authority procedures, social security procedures, must also be supported by us, and we would be happy and happy to support them on our own. However, in the case of another segment, environment, energy and water, we no longer have the same support. As long as the government does not realise that decisions on natural resources and environmental health issues cannot be taken in an accelerated time frame, if it does not see what problems have already been caused by the past period, it does not see the reality that scandals such as the case of building in Villánykövesden or the privatisation of Balaton in Balatonfenyves, when it did not have time for the determining authority to hold public hearings, nor for it to carry out a proper life-cycle, say, vegetation examination of what its ecological effects will be. So as long as we can support social, employment, health and social security simplifications, the vast majority of the amendments in the field of environmental protection, energy and water are, in our opinion, very serious risks and we do not want them to change in themselves. The adjustment of the administrative time limits to the general administrative time limits set out in the Ket. also covers the ex ante investigation procedure in the event of a public hearing, and at the moment the authorities are unable to comply with the rules in this regard at an appropriate pace and during the current period of administration. If we shorten this further, we will make the work of the Authority even more impossible and we will even more violate the rights of customers so that they can be informed about matters affecting their own environment - and not just the natural environment -. Similarly, we are very concerned about the 1996 LIII on the protection of nature. With regard to the amendment of law to the general administrative deadlines set out in the Ket., because the nature conservation authority acting as the administrative authority has already examined the possibility of procedures in the case of highly protected and protected species in a limited number of cases, by establishing the time limits for the administration of previously regulated administrative procedures at the level of government decrees. Now that the environmental and nature protection authorities are in a tighter position to enter the government office, and since the regulations on this matter have not yet been adequate, it certainly cannot be supported on our own. In the case of the water utility, regulations are changing again, which, in our view, serve the interests of society, which we would like to support. But when we get there, the 1996 CXVI on nuclear power. In order to amend law, there are once again time limits that are essentially aimed at excluding professional competence and background. [[12.00]] For if we cannot look at such questions throughout the cycle, we cannot make good decisions. The proposal is not about cutting red tape, but about reducing the control role of licensing authorities. The reduction of the control role in such procedures is extremely dangerous and cannot serve the interests of Hungarian citizens in the longer term, so we cannot agree on this. Similarly, we believe that the legislation on gas supply, the waste legislation and the legislation on the classification of waste management and public service activities in general contain risks, which may need to be reconsidered. In relation to these, where we have objections, we will, of course, be able to make amendments in order to support all the other positive changes I have talked about. In the field of land and agriculture, it is clear that in some cases there may be a positive change, the process of auctioning land-directing committees may be simplified, but the question is whether this will also pose a risk, whether there are dangers that threaten the purity of public life with these abbreviations. It is also suggested that if the annual CXIV is extended on livestock production. The procedure for the recognition of a breed society in the context of the amendment of law is shortened, whether or not it is a problem. It doesn't mean it's a good thing if it's shorter than six months to four months, because that's enough time. However, this does not mean that a general change in some things is also helpful, for example, in the year XXVIII on the protection and welfare of animals. The amendment of law is a problem because there are substantial changes here, and the wording weakens the authorisation of the establishment of animal homes and removes the funds necessary for the establishment and maintenance of animal shelters. These simplifications may pose further risks, and the Secretary of State may have been monitoring the media over the past year, with a number of these animal protection scandals emerging in the last year, which should be re-thought. The changes to the legislation on the Hungarian Plant Protection Chamber of Engineering and Plant Medicine are also desirable, so it is also something that can be supported. However, we consider the deadlines for the support legislation of the MVH, the Agricultural and Rural Development Office, to be supported, but we would see many other options. At the moment, farmers are able to continue agricultural production by announcing their legitimate land use at land offices, which means that the farmer can, say, claim support and work where the land office has registered the use of the land, irrespective of ownership rights. In particular, the MVH's records do not make any use of the existing land administration in any form, it is not right, and it is virtually declared to farmers that the MVH only checks the relationship with the MVH land register at random. And such a background not only increases the administrative burden on farmers, as they draw small maps and make their aid applications year after year, but also creates the opportunity for abuses that started at the end of 2013, which allowed for area payments to be abused, because people drew me randomly, in the form of bellies, because the MVH did not have to use the land registry directly. Therefore, such ones could mean further simplifications. In the same way, the annual CXIV on livestock production. There are elements in the amendment of the Act that we are happy to support, the reduction of administrative deadlines, the procedures for the recognition of breeders' organisations, but it would be good to simplify the legal background of the animal register, since there are completely different registers of individuals of different breeds in breeding organisations, there is a passport, a horse passport, an ear number in sheep, and this is registered separately in each breed organisation. And now, when farmers have to keep track of these, and they are already obliged to provide all kinds of data other than the KSH, for example to the Chamber of Agriculture, these simplifications, which use the central register, could significantly reduce the administrative burden. So on the agricultural and agricultural subject, our impression is that simplifications are eligible, but there would be much, much more opportunities and it is not certain that we will achieve the impact that we want to achieve by simply reducing time limits. Fish management, forest management legislation and transport rules would be eligible for us, all of which, in our opinion, could serve the kind of government objective that the legislation intended to address overall. We would like to draw the government's attention to the need for further government measures for all these standards that we have talked about, and for all those amendments that we will be making. Only legislative changes cannot create the aims of cutting red tape, but this must also reduce the costs associated with it. At the beginning of my speech, I spoke about the costs of state leaders, and at the moment, the total monthly salary of state leaders is HUF 190 million gross per month, and they cost 2.3 billion in one year, and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán belongs to 55 State Secretarys and 99 Deputy State Secretarys by his 10 ministers, which significantly increased the state of the past. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So all of this, how the opaque administrative structure can change, requires additional government efforts. And this comes with the additional benefits involved in this bill, such as the service car driver, which creates extra numbers and cost increases. The proposal for an amendment creates the possibility for government-led or supervised entities such as central offices and government offices to adapt to the allocation of a government leader rather than to the government's own powers to regulate these benefits at the level of the regulation. We are concerned about this at some level and it would be good if it were not to be implemented in this way, but with central regulation. This bill contains a lot of proposals that we can support, and a lot of gaps that should be incorporated into it. I would ask the rapporteur to be open to the amendments and proposals that arise in this regard. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-06-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent Member who has applied for the speech. Mr László Varju will speak. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In a relatively short speech, I would like to point out that if a law which is to be tabled on 29 September is adopted in just over three weeks, and in the meantime wants to amend 110 laws, it has about what credibility it has. I leave this to everyone's own imagination, especially in a situation where neither the oral presentation that Minister has said nor what your first administrative reduction programme, called the same, has actually brought in the written documents. In the framework of the Széll Kálmán plan, you have already announced that a reduction in administration is being carried out, and in the meantime, there has been no mention of the results achieved or made here during the presentation. But let us follow the method that Minister has actually suggested or followed, what we are actually talking about, how you want to implement it, what means you are using, and let us talk about these, because - I say - the main problem is that you will say the most important issues spectacularly here, once again, that in 2010, in the year after your then government, you immediately came forward with a reduction in administration, and there you promised a reduction of HUF 500 billion, and we have now reached the point that, said by the Minister, this is only about HUF 10 billion. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Step one.]] But let's get back to the fact that the state's competitiveness is fundamentally influenced by what you think the level of bureaucracy looks like. This competitiveness has actually deteriorated over the last five years. So if bureaucracy fundamentally affects the competitiveness of the state, the competitiveness of Hungary, then your activities in recent years... - for five years, for half a decade, have dealt with this, so they have managed to achieve that, on the basis of the data published last week, Hungary's competitiveness has deteriorated significantly compared to the previous period, it has fallen down six or seven places, and so we are far behind the states of the region, and in this respect it is no wonder that no investor would arrive. In the presentation, and here in the comment, we have heard that we need the good state, we need the strong state, and then the force will resolve, on your behalf, that we will be able to move forward with great steps. [[12.10]] This force, Mr. Secretary of State, has led me all the way there - for example, here in the government administration system outlined by the Minister in a spectacular way - with these steps you have achieved that it is a situation where a permit for the disposal of hazardous waste in the county of Heves is issued in Várpalota in two weeks, in Hungarian: you can make an infinitely wrong decision in this framework. That is why it is entirely reasonable to suggest that you are removing steps here that I think we can actually see as big steps, big steps with force, otherwise towards the gap, that this can also happen. Although it was quite interesting - and I think that it was primarily towards the Fidesz fact that Minister Lazarus's two sentences about the Cadár system, that a good and strong administration could keep that system alive for decades - and, if I understand it correctly, he encourages you to keep such an administrative system, dear fellow Members, in these benches for a long time. Well, hear who needs to, because this system is carrying out instructions for the aforementioned political order, right now in the form of a reduction in administration. So, I would like to ask you with respect, let us know what you've done once five years ago, in what you've done, what you've done in some of the 400, 500 billion forints of bureaucracy that you've referred to. However, let us draw one out of the entire salad law, which, let us say, would certainly make sense to talk about if they did something meaningfully. This is related to Hungary's competitiveness and the fact that 95 percent of businesses employ fewer than 10 employees, and these companies are burdened with terrible administration. Here, in particular, I highlight the bureaucracy that surrounds employment. This is something to be said about, and if you can do anything about it here, despite the skepticism that exists on my part, I would be very, very happy if the employment-related burdens of businesses were to be really reduced after about half a decade and not only talked about the need to make it transparent, life-like and simple. It's a long time ago for a change of heart. You'd better do something about it. Just because statistics clearly show that the administrative burden on the EU average amounts to 3.5 per cent of GDP. This is 6.7 percent in Hungary, to which you have made a significant contribution in recent years, for example by introducing special taxes, maintaining and introducing small taxes, since around 24 new tax codes have been introduced, so, in fact, instead of HUF 10 billion, only the small businesses can make ten times the difference. That is why it would be appropriate to proceed calmly from this measure which you have planned, and safely to go in the direction of 100 billion forints; even if I consider the former mood, which was communicated here by the Minister, so that the desk could always find a job, then change that, it is time for you to make a move. But to give you a few more examples of what could be expected, or what businesses and individuals, citizens, who are primarily related to you or the state, would expect. I would like to mention the possibility of a tax return at the level and size of the beer mat. Let's just say that this was said for a long time, and then it became clear to everyone that if you put the flash drive on the beer mat, it could be achieved by about this, because otherwise, as far as simplicity, transparency, opportunity is concerned, it is very, very far from what you could conclude from your previous commitment. Or the introduction of new taxes such as that which the state quietly slips away here, and then all the municipalities are almost forced to introduce real estate taxes nicely in the meantime, and each undertaking can pay these new charges. However, to mention another area to you: the possibility of using the European Union's resources, as the Minister has also mentioned this. I can offer you a very simple solution. In a first move in 2010, you threw out the possibility to automatically implement a significant part of the proposals, for example for small and medium-sized enterprises. I mean, to put it simply, the proposal is not about a jury coming, it does the scoring the way it does, and it is about automaticism for friends: in order of arrival, those who have fulfilled the conditions are entitled to the support and not to your criticism mechanism. That's what you've had before 2010, and you've thrown it out. I trust and encourage you to use these methods. In this sense, for example, there is a specific background to one of the 110 legislative options that could be dealt with, even because this is one of the biggest cost reduction options in the field of bureaucracy. I am also saying this because if you are trying to spend thousands of billions of forints as state orders - although we are only at the level of promises at present, because since 2014, EU funds have basically not been able to start anything, we can only talk about the use of previous resources, and in the case of public procurement it is a sum of this amount that appears in the mazes of bureaucracy in your decision-making, and it is obvious, and many people are writing about it, that, speaking in the bottom line, it is 10-20 percent of this amount that you have seen as a cost of corruption - if you were to get rid of it, it would make a significant contribution to reducing the bureaucracy and its costs in Hungary. This would make a significant contribution to making it simple, transparent for all those who make use of it. Here, I wanted to focus primarily on small and medium-sized enterprises to create a real opportunity for them, and they really could be further employed by people who, unfortunately, were forced to leave Hungary, because in these economic circumstances, under such administrative conditions, they could not find the means to make a living. I urge you not to just talk about it like you did before; then you promised much more, you took much more, the result is zero. I trust you can make some real progress now. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-06-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue, and then, of course, presents it in Hungarian. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.20]]
u2015-10-06-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! U ime Odbora narodnosti mađarskog Parlamenta iznosim stav u vezi predložene modifikacije zakona o smanjenju biroktskih obaveza u krugu jabne uprave. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/6410 on amendments to the law on administrative bureaucracy reduction I would like to comment on the provisions contained in the bill concerning nationalities in Hungary, as the advocate of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. With their traditions, cultures, arts and mother tongues, nationalities present as state-making factors in Hungary express the uniqueness, identity-consciousness of their respective nationalities, thereby enriching the depository of Hungarians. The key element of nationality is the preservation of identity, the fight against assimilation and the intensive maintenance of ethnic cultural traditions. Hungary's Fundamental Law provides as follows:. The nationalities living in Hungary are state-creating factors. Any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. Nationalities living in Hungary create local and national self-governments. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In many areas of law, domestic legislation is subject to the provisions of the Fundamental Law and has sought to create a legal basis for the exercise of nationality law. As an example, certain procedural laws allow the person involved in the proceedings to speak in a language of nationality. We also find examples of the primary language of administrative administration in settlements mostly inhabited by nationalities being the language of nationality and the wording of the minutes of board meetings in the language of nationality, as well as the preference given to the selection of the staff in the language of nationality, capable of administrative administration in the language of nationality. In the general justification part of the bill on the agenda, it is stated that the proposed norm is intended to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses, to simplify and speed up procedures. The 2004 CXL on general rules for administrative procedures and services In the context of the provisions of the Act, the bill proposes to reduce the time limits for administration and to abolish the possibility of setting a period longer than the time limit for general administration laid down in sectoral legislation and lower-level legal sources, which is welcomed by our committee. With the use of modern electronic devices between authorities, such as the use of electronic communications as a main rule, the draft standard is set out in Annex XXI. The model of administration of the century. The provisions of the bill on administrative bureaucracy have identified a number of economic or economic activities relating to the preconditions for the pursuit of business activities which, instead of the authorisation procedure, wish to impose only the obligation to notify the applicant customer. The bill on the agenda covers a number of areas of law. Despite the fact that nationalities in Hungary are generally involved in all sectoral legislation of the bill, I would like to address the specific issues concerning nationalities in my speech. Chapter 47 of the bill contains the 2003 XCII on the tax system. a proposal to amend law, according to which Art. 54. Paragraph 7 (i) shall be replaced by the following: the tax authority shall, upon request, inform the body responsible for the judicial supervision of local authorities and the local and minority self-government of the body responsible for the supervision of local authorities of the law on local governments of Hungary and of the outstanding public debt as defined in the law on the rights of nationalities, or of the non-payment of the tax on the prescribed deadline, as a matter of indignity, and of the scope necessary for the examination of the presence in the public debt-free taxpayer database. It is the obligation of representatives of national governments to apply for their inclusion in the public debt-free taxpayer database maintained by the State tax authority within 30 days of their election. The breach of this obligation is a serious violation, as the law on the local governments of Hungary, as well as the law on the rights of nationalities, lists among the reasons for the finding of inadequacy a public debt outstanding and not even settled on the basis of a notification. The provisions of the bill, which aim, inter alia, to allow national authorities to contact the tax authority directly and ask him for information on the possible public debt to their representatives, are essential in order to enable the national government to act legally in the event of a public debt. The above provision is fully in line with the interests of national authorities and representatives of national minorities and the legality of their work. In addition, it is generally necessary to note that nationality authorities have in many cases an analogy with local authorities in the area of regulation. The same bureaucratic administrative obligations are imposed on national governments as on local self-government bodies. At local level, the members of the minority self-governments mainly represent nationality through their vocation, nationality, and recognition of identity. The legal provisions that define the operation of national authorities contain as strict provisions as those of local local authorities, despite the fact that the representatives of nationalities generally manage only a symbolic budget of a few hundred thousand forints overall, make decisions, do not have an independent administrative apparatus, and do not receive remuneration for their work. Their responsibilities and responsibilities in the local minority public life give them a role in the cultural field and cooperate with local government offices in the performance of their tasks. As a general finding of their work, the settlements in which the notary and the office which it manages are duly taken care of for the operation of the minority self-government are not affected; this is supported by the recent reports of the SAO. In contrast, in cities, villages, districts where national governments are viewed as step-children, there are serious problems, which are mainly caused by obstacles to the drawing of available resources and by lack of access to task-based grants. Chapter 84 of the bill on the agenda contains a proposal to amend Act I of 2010 on the registration procedure, which provides that the Act 81/D. The authority issuing the identity card is CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Law 16. For the purpose of issuing an identity card applied for pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 3, the person belonging to the nationality shall be entitled to take the name of the person in the nationality language with direct access from the electronic register. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[12.30]] This legislative proposal is of paramount importance in the life of nationalities, since the preservation of identity is of paramount importance to people who are concerned about their nationality. The Law on the Rights of Nationalities 16. On request, the identity card shall include the name of the person belonging to the nationality, as stated in the register of birth, in the language of nationality. The amendment proposal provides a legal basis for the use of the opportunities provided for in the National Rights Act, which we nationalities have long advocated. The name of the person, which has a particular emotion and meaning for each person, is a particularly important and sensitive area for citizens who retain their nationality, since the strengthening and expression of identity is shown in the name of nationality. In the event of its adoption, in order to ensure that the provisions of the bill referred to above apply, it is of particular importance that government officials working in document offices and government windows are aware of the possibilities of making use of nationality names on documents and that they handle applications in this respect with sufficient expertise and competence. However, this amendment can only be seen as a first step on the road, which is a shift from previous practice, but does not ensure the equivalent use of Hungarian and ethnic languages and the bilinguality of documents in the case of identity documents. For the future, the full bilingualism of identity documents is the goal of the nationalities living in Hungary. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for following my speech, and I would like to ask you to take account of the interests of nationality and proposals in your decision-making. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side. A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-06-40	Thank you, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nitrai, Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-06-41	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the floor. In my two-minute speech, I would like to respond to Mr Sallai's sentences. He said that the government's efforts to reform the state failed. I don't think that's true, but the opposite is true. Its very, very important moment and moment is, moreover, today, the debate on this bill, entitled the amendment of legislation relating to the reduction of administrative bureaucracy. But it could be called, finally, that this will happen; the government has a good attitude, took a deep breath, and is willing to change or abolish the outdated, lifeless and often stupid regulation that has developed in Hungary over the past decades, based on information from everyday life. The aim of this legislation, which amends 110 laws, is to make public administration easier and faster for citizens and customers. I would like to highlight three main points here, which I consider to be extremely important if this is to be achieved. With shorter procedural deadlines and fewer documents, customers, citizens will be able to participate in the administration and will require less personal presence in the next period. It is also a very forward-looking and important decision that official procedures should be completed within two months. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to share one statistic with you: in 2014, there were over 1 million 300 thousand cases whose administration lasted over 60 days. So I think that this regulation is certainly an important step forward. I am also pleased that this draft legislation strengthens electronic administration. So I urge the government to do more of this, to be braver, and to continue to move forward in the process of cutting red tape. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-06-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor first to the speakers who have been notified in writing. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-43	Mr President, Dear House, At first glance, we could even welcome the government's efforts to be a little more modest than the first bureaucracy reduction announcement, when they were talking about savings of 100 billion in the long term as a result, but now it is about a 10-billion-dollar investment and the following economic spin-off effects and positives, at an invaluable level. But we need to see that, although it is essential to support this direction, where they are going, I believe that it is very late, with a five-year delay, but at least now it seems to start, but at the same time there are a number of areas, consumer protection, economic and market surveillance, which may pose dangers or have not been fully surrounded, so that the interests of Hungarian citizens and small businessmen can be harmed. For example, changing the role of the so-called Consumer Rapporteur with regard to consumer protection, which is striking. In the past, Jobbik also supported the motion that large companies had an obligation to employ a consumer rapporteur who helped to communicate with the authorities. Thus, in the long term, it has helped customers, since in the event of any abuse, although only in principle, a more oiled system should have worked. Let us allow you to see how effective and how effective this has been, since it is very far from 100 percent. But making all this mandatory application optional, so they're just making it an option? ! Tell me about a large company in Hungary that will take the cost of using a consumer rapporteur on its own. It's amazing that in such a well-intentioned package, the multilobbi can push its paws so hard and change so hard what you've previously been given the authority of an entire population. Now they're clearly liquefying this. There are other areas, such as the food chain inspection fee, where I fully support the simplification of public administration on the basis of this package and the reduction in the time limits for general administration can also help to make certain things smoother. But you can see that the principles are still not touched. If a multi- or large company operating here is able to diversify its portfolio, efficiently distribute its small empire into different companies, then it can essentially avoid the type of tax that has otherwise been designed to regulate this sector, regulating this area. There will be no significant obstacle to this avoidance in the future. So it is possible to reduce deadlines, make the administration smoother, but if the subject of the administration is not found, because they avoid paying this tax, they are practically unable to produce a result. We must also say that in the case of market surveillance of products, it is justified that the laboratory fee be paid by the undertaking responsible for the infringement if its product had to be tested. What we do not see is that the former available Hungarian laboratory system and the Hungarian investigation system, which was given, is now where it is. How is it that multinational interests have part of them, and in many cases they have a metaphorically, but those who issued it give an opinion on the product. It's quite amazing that in five years, this is all they've been able to show for this area. And there is also a serious problem here, which is also a market surveillance issue, and it is in this package, and this is when shortcomings are identified in the case of a company. In the past, the legislation stated that the market surveillance authority was obliged to notify the undertaking which committed the infringement of its action to correct the deficiency. Now, in an incomprehensible way, you are changing this clause and amending it so that, by setting a deadline, the market surveillance authority may require the infringer to make such a notification. So from a mandatory notification, from a tracking system, you're making a conditional way. It is difficult to argue that, because that is what they have in their recommendation. It may therefore require the infringer to notify the infringement of its termination or its attempt. It is clear, therefore, that this conditional method will lye it, weaken even the previous regulation, which in itself was not so strong. It can be seen that when we talk about consumer protection issues, on the one hand, it is not only symbolic that there is no longer a separate consumer protection committee, you have integrated it into an economic mega committee, you can see that various consumer protection posts have ceased or have been transformed, other activities have been integrated under the Hungarian National Bank; it is as if you do not own this area. [[12.40]] Small sub-areas, where there is a farmer, need to be watched three ways or have three owners. It can therefore be seen that this system is incredibly ineffective, and by regrouping resources, with an independent consumer protection, such bloopers could be avoided. But it certainly does not lead to a solution if, in such cases, such as the food chain inspection fee or the consumer rapporteur, you are even loosening up the previously incomplete regulation. Therefore, I urge you to move much more strongly, much harder towards tightening up, and if you have been able to lay down, at least at the level of the framework, the events governing multi-enterprises and interests that could be effective, say, with regard to a food chain inspection fee or market surveillance issues, then do not allow different multinational lobbying or interests to override your own legislative experiments. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-06-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group, also made a preliminary statement. I give you the floor.
u2015-10-06-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the bureaucracy reduction, the Minister's exposé, or what we have before us, immediately saw that this was the political credo of János Lázár. It was very clear that he had been able to do a great deal of work on this, and that from the introduction he had made, which was also a great historical outlook and placed himself in a greater context of cutting red tape, it seemed that we were witnessing a government truth speech, in which there are many ambitious wordings, and there are many ambitious proposals, so that the bill itself is very ambitious in many places with the amendment of 110 laws. However, as a health politician, I still see areas and opportunities where there is room for further reduction of bureaucracy and which actually give people the opportunity to participate much more easily in everyday matters. Given the fact that health itself is a very complicated, highly legislative and highly territorial area, it is very often and very often met not only by the patient, but also by the person working in the healthcare sector, who is often not part of the bureaucracy, the burden of bureaucracy. So if we say - and so said János Lázár in some way - that we are not focusing on reducing internal bureaucracy now, however, we will have to deal with this in health anyway, and part of the proposals that I am proposing for consideration will also propose an internal reduction in this case. As you said, be a part of their lives, so let's have a part of people's lives that they say is better, for example, these things that I'm about to suggest can be something that the residents will say they've made their lives better. Basically, going through the legislation, it affects health in many places, including the law on the administration of health authorities, but could be said, for example, about health intermediaries and chamber legislation, almost all of them. I do not wish to give up these approximately seven or eight areas in the bill which are at all affected and which have a health aspect. Overall, it can be concluded that it helps to reduce red tape on a small scale, especially by reducing time limits. In many places, the two-month deadline is reduced to 45 days, in others it shortens the 30-day deadline, for example in terms of drug authorisation or new drugs and other authorisation or identification. This is also very important because it has a top priority not only in cutting red tape, but also in the public health perspective, in prevention, to be taken seriously by the government in this area, i.e. in terms of drug safety, back-up and effective action against drugs. So this can be an important element not only in reducing bureaucracy, but also in a more efficient system. But what is very important and perhaps also to be highlighted and forward-looking in terms of efficiency is the procedural deadline for the establishment of new pharmacies and their operating licenses, which has been shortened to 21 days. In addition, the application of a decision with a contingent effect will also help a lot in health management cases where we have seen many times before that the authorities have listened either because of expertise or lack of time, or simply because of the inability of bureaucracy. Therefore, in the light of the applicant's decision, the applicant's findings, silence will have the legal consequence that in this case the applicants' requests will in any event be met. Thus, dependent decisions are a very good way to cut red tape with regard to health. But not all is a reduction in bureaucracy - and how can bureaucracy really be reduced? Here we see legislative proposals and amendments to laws, but I am pleased to present to the Secretary of State government regulations and government instruments where there is ample opportunity to cut red tape and reduce people's daily torments and burdens. For example, what concerns everyone in today's modern world and contributes to our basic mobility is the competence assessment of drivers, where there is currently a system under government decree that the younger the person who goes to the aptitude test, the more expensive they are to carry out this examination, the more fees they pay to the general doctor or any other doctor, but typically to the general practitioner who conducts the aptitude test. In fact, if we look at the real purpose of whether someone is fit to lead or to participate in transport, then we should say that as we move forward with age, the more thorough tests are needed, the better the state of the senses, the visual organs, the overall circulatory state. Therefore, a general examination of his health is necessary, so we could assume that the more tests need to be carried out, the more expensive such an examination is for a doctor. Compared to that, the opposite prevails. In the driver's fitness test between 24 and 40 years of age, HUF 7200 is payable, while in the case of the 60-year-old person who has not yet reached 70 years, HUF 2500, although we also know that there is a general deterioration in health, this is statistically, based on the OECD, the HCSO surveys and all health surveys, as they say, proved and proved. Indeed, as age progresses, our abilities, our health conditions that make us particularly fit for safe transport, decline, decrease, disappear, or, in bad cases, suffer some bad damage. So the exact opposite would be justified. But in order to be fair to everyone, there is also a suggestion here that the government should consider that for each age group a uniform, but less than the starting age, so a much lower than HUF 7200 must be introduced somewhere in the median. I believe that this can be included in the total impact of the HUF 10 billion proposed by János Lázár. In this case, it may not be the public actors, but, although the general practitioners may not be happy about it, but it is not a subject of pleasure, but the object of a great social good, it would be taken away from the general practitioners, so it would not affect the 10 billion HUF. However, it would be entirely fair, completely legitimate and completely timely to introduce such a relief for drivers' fitness tests and show a fully balanced ledge. But it's very important, by the way, and it's also hidden deep into government regulations, a matter of medical observation. This is also a neurological point whose solution would greatly increase the effectiveness and application of legislation. I'll give you a simple example. In cases of domestic violence, violence between relatives, or any violence between dependents, it is very often the only evidence, given the closed circle of witnesses, the peculiarity of the life situation, that is often the sighting that can justify the extent of such abuse or even the occurrence of such abuse. Now you have to pay 3,500 forints for anyone who wants to get a medical report on you. I think that it would also be fair, in the spirit of combating domestic violence, or in order to reduce the violence of relationships, that all persons who need medical sightings for whatever reason also receive a more accessible procedure, the procedural fee or the visitation fee could also be reduced. This would affect healthcare providers. So this is typically the level that must be achieved in the $10 billion reduction framework of János Lázár. [[12.50]] This could be taken or taken away by the State from the sources of additional income, so to speak, of state-owned healthcare institutions. But I also think that it is necessary to serve greater social good here, and it would also result in one, if not bureaucracy reduction, but also the indication of bureaucracy in a more beautiful colour. The other is very interesting, and this is only the final settlement of the issue of health documentation that is suitable for further consideration. I would certainly suggest this - and this also affects bureaucracy - the establishment of a general health documentation policy, because we see it a lot of times, and it is also in the administration of the state, and whether it is a court or a hospital or a state body or a police force, we get copies of documents in a completely different amount, or a copy fee is paid in a totally different amount. There are healthcare institutions where you can request a copy of the medical documentation for 100 HUF/page, where you can get a basic fee and a number fee above. But for example, for a 100 forint side fee, you can calculate that the price of a million forints, perhaps not too expensive, is not too cheap, but it is not too cheap, which usually happens to be in one of these institutions, the price of a million forints device comes from practically ten thousand pages of simple copying fee. Counting that the delivery of an average toner is 2-5-10 thousand, so depending on the size of the cartridge itself, so basically with a cartridge, if we issue such a patient copy at this price - the extra fee, by the way, is about HUF 100, typically around HUF 40-50 - then a toner will earn the price of the health care institution that the entire device itself is placed in. I said, this is a very simplified and extreme example, but from this analogy, it could also be more friendly with public health or any healthcare provider when it comes to issuing a copy of documents or issuing documentation. These are all those which, by the way, are not a legislative amendment, but an amendment to a government regulation or the establishment of a common, some kind of regulation, if any, even a legislative regulation. Overall, it can therefore be concluded that everything that affects health in the legislation on bureaucracy is forward-looking. Of course, it is very partial, like the legal crowd that regulates the whole of health care itself, but it may not be worth stopping here, so it is definitely worth going further. As János Lázár put it, he mentioned four cases in which we need to move forward, and I ask the government to take health care as a fifth case, to take as a fifth case the reduction in health bureaucracy, as this will make the public health system, which otherwise has relatively limited resources, even more efficient. And the other is that he described this as an experiment, Minister, that the current reduction of bureaucracy is the subject of an experiment, and I think that they should bravely experiment with health, but not only experiment with reduction of bureaucracy in health, and experiment on this, but also actually act more effectively, in this area as well. So, overall, I suggest that the government should take the steps that start with much greater steps, with a stronger pace, and with greater expansion to health. All in all, these were our proposals for cutting red tape in health and our comments. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. It is now up to Members who have applied for a speech in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I do not wish to deal with theoretical questions as to how the history of the administration of the state came about, since Mr Lazarus did so long enough, and I am trying to concentrate on the current law. However, the role of the omnipotence of the state, the role of a strong and cost-effective state, should be allowed to be denied through a single example. As it happens, in order to deprive the municipalities of their rights, they have taken away the maintenance of schools from the municipalities. He came to the state, the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center, with the aim of becoming more professional, more cost-effective, and it will work much better, and, well, it has been proven that the state has not been able to cope with this task, since it has not become more cost-effective or more efficient or more efficient. Nothing can prove that better than the fact that your leader himself had to be replaced quickly. But indeed, here is the bill before us, as many of my fellow Members have already said, on more than 150 pages 110 are amending laws, the reading of which alone is not short. It takes more time to interpret and, obviously, refer back to an earlier legislation, and the point is, in fact, how the practical implementation of this will happen. I could only say the word that Minister Lazarus said, which seems to me to be an experiment. However, I understand the Government's intention, and I must say that I also think that the direction of most of the planned changes is good, and I also think it is good, if it is really about the reorganisation of the administration that measures are actually designed to reduce bureaucracy. The rules are intended to adapt the measures taken by the authorities to practical life, to bring them closer to it, to reduce certain deadlines or to speed up procedural procedures, so to sum up a more operational, faster administration for people. In this respect, I think the direction is right. However, the question of how the bill can serve this intended objective is clearly to be seen in the future. After all, as I said, it is a good administrative measure, such as the reduction of deadlines or the exclusion of the possibility of extensions, but this alone cannot and will not be enough to actually reduce bureaucracy. I think that, in its entirety, the draft legislation before us could really be assessed only if I thought about the other legislation governing the procedures, in particular the government regulations, so that the planned changes could be made to them. It is obvious that these legislative changes, which are now in this bill, are also linked to government regulations. Unfortunately, based on the experience so far, we can say that as a result of the attempt to reduce bureaucracy, the burden on the authorities has generally increased and that the burden on customers has not fallen nearly as significantly as it would have been expected. And if we see that the situation of the authorities cannot improve or even deteriorate, there is no way that the situation of the customers can substantially improve. I would like to give you an example of this. For example, the Minister pointed out that building will be an important task, namely the electronic administration of construction matters. How did such a civil engineering procedure work before? The client submitted his application, he added the design documents to the local government's administrative office, and now he can do it in the offices of government offices and district offices, as the construction authority case is on two levels. He did, and after authorization, the department returned it to the client. Today, you can only upload building applications by electronic means, which most people do not do for a number of reasons: either you have no Internet access, or you are simply more comfortable with people, or you are not actually competent, because the system is so complicated. So what do they do? They submit the design documentation on paper and digital media. What can the authority administrator do? You scan this material after you scan it, you print this material, and you have to do it in duplicate. You'll obviously return one to the client, and you'll put one in the file, as all requests received electronically will have to be filed. And the filing is done on paper. The design documentation must, of course, be printed several times more, since, where appropriate, it must be taken out into the field, the client may still request a copy, or it may also have to be given to another body, the bank. In this sense, therefore, we can say that the use of paper has only increased dramatically in this particular operation. Obviously, it has not become more cost-effective, obviously the costs have increased, and what the time spent on scanning, printing, authentication, the official administrator has obviously taken away from the meaningful work, i.e. from the customers. [[13.00]] This was just an example, but a number of similar examples could be given as to how the speeding up of official procedures has not been achieved. As I said, it is obvious that this bill, which is in front of Parliament, is a huge change proposal in the life of the administration, and it is feared that a fraction of its ideas of change can also create a kind of chaos in the administration, so I have further questions. For example, has there been an assessment of the extent to which cases have been processed in current official cases, taking into account current procedural times? I am very simply wondering whether there is a lack of time or a lack of time with the current deadlines to deal with individual administrative matters. Obviously, this raises the question that if there is such a thing, so if there is a lot of delays in dealing with cases, then what is the guarantee that the shortened administrative procedural times for reducing bureaucracy can be maintained if workers are unable to maintain longer procedural times at present. Obviously, the paper can handle everything, but how this can be done in practice should be seen. Then it is obvious that, by reducing deadlines, there will be a certain additional burden on the public administration and the public authorities in each procedure. Ergo must carry out the same or more tasks in less time. Once again, the question arises of the guarantee that workers can carry out their duties with such increased extra burdens at least as professionally and without error. And speaking of extra burdens, there hasn't been a salary increase in the administration in eight years, a salary increase for the workers. Obviously, in addition to such an additional job expectation, I think that it is necessary to better estimate the employees in the public administration as well as in the municipal administration. Then the question arises, after all, of a huge change proposal on how the customers, the people for whom this change is taking place, how will people know that they may have to take part in an activity-related procedure, rather than an authorisation procedure, but only a notification obligation. So, on the whole, I could say that efforts to simplify and speed up administrative procedures are certainly absolutely welcome, but legislation on shortening deadlines alone cannot be enough if the personal and material conditions of faster procedures are not given or at least unknown. Both Minister Lazarus and the Government remained fully in debt in connection with the draft law, so we did not recognise these issues. Unfortunately, everyday experience shows that there is too much optimism about what Mr Lazarus said by the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2015-10-06-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Szilágyi György, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-06-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, it is very strange to negotiate this law at this time, to talk about the transformation of public administration, the reduction of bureaucracy, when this period is about the need for a new ministry for Antal Rogán, and therefore we are creating a new ministry for Antal Rogán. So it's a little sharp between the two contrasts. But Minister Lázár's exposé was very interesting, by the way, and I say that it could be said that it was worth listening to, and there were a lot of elements in it that said that even honesty could be seen. Just because this honesty was present, I think, in the Minister's speech, I would primarily respond to what was said there. A good state has been said, a good government that is close to citizens and helps citizens. These are such promises, so we know that this is about as much a promise as we will be able to submit our tax returns on a beer mat, Mr Orbán said in 2010. We can see how much of this has come to pass since then. John Lázár also said that a professional administration was needed. And you're right. So I feel that what came out most of the Minister's speech is that he is fully aware of the current situation of the administration, and that is why I say that there are contradictions that I do not believe in, that professional administration may be created on the basis of his speech, because Minister Lazarus also said that he does not believe in major changes. If you do not believe in major changes, you cannot create a professional administration, but that would indeed be the goal, since we should not forget that if there is no professional administration, public administration and bureaucracy play a major role in the development of corruption. It is also your declaration that corruption must be curbed as much as possible. However, it would have a great role to play, it would not be necessary to look for contact capital to deal with any matter if there were no fundamental thinking in Hungary, and unfortunately, this fundamental thinking works in Hungary, and this is based on experience, by the way, you and the MSZP have developed this system together so that I need to find someone to deal with any permit or any case, think the citizen who can help me, because he knows someone who can handle it. This should be changed, and unfortunately, I'll say it again in the last 25 years, not only have you managed to change it, but you may have developed it to far greater perfection than it was in the so-called cursed system during the Kádár period. Here was one of the Minister's sentences, and he was exemplary with the Kádár system, when he said that in the Kádár system we have experienced that a good administration is also capable of running a dictatorship and pushing it out. And you were right, you were absolutely right, and here is perhaps the biggest problem of the so-called change of regime that hasn't changed at all. The only difference is that you have reversed all this by having been an administrative dictatorship in Hungary for 25 years, there is an administrative dictatorship in this country. How does that manifest itself? It manifests itself in two things. One is that if a person does not like a given power, if someone raises his head too high, then the various methods of administration make this man impossible, harassing him, or, better, making his life difficult. This is what works in Hungary today. In this, I must be absolutely right that, indeed, the administration can serve dictatorships. Another form of administrative dictatorship is present in the administration itself, because I do not think that in a normal country it would be normal for a person who works in the administration to think in his spare time of what kind of event he goes to, what kind of political creed he has, or anything else, because if it is not appropriate, the power in the government is not in his political opinion, or he may go to an event that is not related to the government, he may lose his job very soon or get into much worse working conditions very soon. So I say that I fully share a lot of what the Minister has said, but, unfortunately, if we do not wish to make a major difference in this situation, then it will not change and it will remain the same. The stated aim of the bill before us is to facilitate the conduct of citizens' affairs against the state by introducing various facilitations in various procedures. The vast majority of facilitations are reflected in the shortening of administrative time limits and, to a lesser extent, in the imposition of a lighter notification obligation rather than a licence. The amendment also includes a reduction in fees and charges for certain types of cases, which also serves to make business between the State and its citizens less burdensome for customers. The ambition, as I said, is basically correct and good, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself said at the beginning of his administration - another promise in 2010 - that Hungary is an obstacle course, referring to the growing bureaucratic procedures. [[13.10]] Unfortunately, this situation has not changed since then, although at least one, sometimes more, comprehensive reform and large-scale restructuring has been announced annually at the word level in addition to continuous, minor reorganisations. Representatives of the Jobbik Hungary Movement and myself have repeatedly called the attention of this House to the fact that the procedures of offices that are not operating for various reasons, or which are unbearably slow, undermine the country's competitiveness, almost paralyze the day-to-day operation. After such a history, therefore, we should be sincerely pleased that the government has recognised problems and has committed itself to action to eliminate the unblessed conditions. The question is, where will they stop in this transformation? However, in examining the substance of the bill before us, the fact that a small amendment to a significant amount of law is only a prelude to the full and comprehensive reform of the administrative procedure is striking in addition to the noble objective. The rapporteur himself writes about this in the general explanatory memorandum to the proposal. Here comes the contrast that I mentioned that John Lazarus, on the other hand, says that he does not believe in great transformations. So who's telling the truth now? Is there going to be a big makeover, or is there not going to be a big makeover? The amendments that are currently in front of us can, therefore, at best, only mean surface treatment for systemic errors, acute problems. What is the need for a wide-ranging change in the deadlines for each procedure before the next comprehensive administrative procedural reform is to be expected in the near future? In my view, this idea-like amendment of procedural rules creates only uncertainty both in the administration and in the clients, and the frequent change of procedural rules, in addition to uncertainty, results in in inefficiencies, thereby undermining predictability, which is essential for both citizens' customers and businesses. The justification for the bill does not mention, for any legislation to be amended, whether the cases for which the administrative deadline is now planned to be shortened, why they have not gone more smoothly in the past. In no case is there a question of how long it is actually necessary for the particular type of case to be dealt with at a satisfactory, high professional level. According to the lawnmower principle, the proposal generally seeks to cut down time limits that have not been respected by the offices before. Do any of you, fellow Members, know why the most diverse offices exceed the most diverse administrative deadlines? I fear that this issue has not even been raised in the preparation of the bill. In my view, the shortening of administrative deadlines on the basis of a single, top-up initiative will not be a solution to the difficult and slow functioning of the offices. That particular obstacle course with these measures will not be able to be dismantled. In my opinion, decisions to resolve operational problems would, above all, require a thorough and in-depth analysis at all levels of public administration. The smooth, professional and customer-friendly handling of cases requires, above all, professionally prepared apparatus, administrators, lower, middle and senior managers, and not political appointees, who are always nice to the top, in a nice way, but always tread down. The banishment of professionalism and common sense from the offices is the real reason for what I have referred to before, that only representatives of telephones and personal instructions are dealt with in matters that should be dealt with in a regulated procedural manner, let us call it normal business, in accordance with the law. Ladies and gentlemen, In my view, this proposal is nothing more than an act of appearance, a polish that squanders the energy of the pre-legislativeists and robs you of your precious time. Rather, these energies should be used for the thorough preparation of the forthcoming general administrative statute law, which was also referred to in the general justification of the proposal. In my opinion, we should do a thorough work once in preparation, and then we should not deal with the establishment and temporary compliance of transitional rules, we should not constantly unfold and unfold our laws. The expert team of Jobbik Hungary Movement - to see the constructivity - is, of course, still available to carry out the work, if they so require, because the administration is not a party issue, it will weave the lives of all of us with a thousand threads, so it will, in the case at hand, make it difficult or even easier. We also offer our experts because we want to create a public administration in Hungary... After all, we need a public administration that operates free of politics, political and political expectations, only in compliance with laws and laws, where there are no loopholes, where everyone is equally subject to regulations, rules, deadlines, be it anyone, be it in any position. We want equal rights and equal obligations in all areas of Hungary to apply to all Hungarian citizens, and this also applies to administrative matters. And we also want and will develop an administration when we receive from the voters the confidence that we will govern this country, an administration where the advancement and recognition of the workers in it is not determined by their political affiliation, but only by their outstanding professional work; it is not necessary for anyone in the administration to fear under a Jobbik government that if he goes to another party, he has voted for Jobbik or you. That's not what we're gonna consider. One thing we will take into account: what kind of professional work they are doing and how it works professionally in public administration and how it helps this country to be a truly more livable, more normal and a closer country to equality. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-10-06-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, To address Mr Zsolt Nyitrai in part, I would like to say that it is indeed true that we can agree on a lot of things with the objectives of the legislative amendment proposal. All I said was that it wasn't enough, so if a few things were to be extended, we didn't achieve enough goals. What the Minister has said in his lead must be significantly more than that. In order for the public administration to function properly and effectively, it is a condition, inter alia, that professional legislation, which is capable of enforcing the Fundamental Law, should not only be enforced by deadlines. The institutional system capable of ensuring implementation and the prepared administration apparatus are equally important. And it is important to talk about this because in my introduction and in my first speech, I told you how the administrative apparatus has changed in the last five years and in the sixth year, because from 2009 I have quoted the statistics; how the number of people working for the government doubled, how the budget we have to devote to this has increased. At the same time, it is a typical example of how procedures have been extended for up to ten times. At the moment, we have to wait a year and a half in a case - let's say, in the case of undivided common property - for the registration of ownership, which is an astonishingly extreme example. In such cases, there is obviously also a need for government intent to increase the apparatus in such places, while political waterheads that have been created in ministries need to be significantly reduced. My fellow Members, Mr Jobbikos, have already mentioned the Ministry for Mr Rogán; it is not about creating an extra Ministry, but let me point out how centralisation itself contributes to bureaucracy. I come from a nature conservation institution, and now we see that there are ten national park directorates all over the country, and we need to send in a centralized communication system in Budapest what they want to tell us. This communication system decides if there is a transfer, any development transfer, then what politicians should be involved in this, the order of communication. Such centralisation, if there is such a legislative amendment at the same time, could render the system inoperable. Centralisation does not necessarily serve to reduce bureaucracy, because it creates extra burdens for many people, which can also slow down this process. [[13.20]] So, in agreement with what my colleague Zsolt Nyitrai said, I am pleased with the efforts that take place five years late or five years late compared to the promise, but I cannot rejoice at them all, and in many cases I see that they are very, very incomplete. If they're incomplete now, then when are we going to deal with the things I just told you about? When will we address the simplification of the agricultural support system if it is not here now? If we already have the 2016 budget, when will we deal with the institutional system? I have now tried to respond to Mr Nitrai, but I have actually asked for the floor because I have just tried to represent the position of the LMP. However, let me specifically address the issue of environmental and nature management, which is obviously one of the many concerns that we have. I have just told Mr Nyitrai that, in addition to the relevant legislation which can enforce the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the institutional system and the administrative apparatus capable of ensuring implementation are equally important, and that it is the environmental institutional system that has been damaged in all cases over the past period. It is regrettable that all of these three pillars, especially in the case of environmental issues, have been significantly weakened, have been fragmented in recent years by the Orbán government, because, together with its legal softening, the institutional system will become inoperable. A wide range of experts have been replaced with political cadres, which can obviously be debated, but I do not doubt that Fidesz sympathizers and fideses can be excellent experts in each field. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks. Interviews from Fidesz: Thank you very much!]] But unfortunately, the procedures in environmental and nature protection do not at this moment support this. We find clear technical errors in a multitude of official procedures, and for example, Andrea Zay, who led the Transdanubian Environmental Inspectorate, was the one who - now we can talk about it on the anniversary of Colontar - found everything in order there. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: It wasn't him!]] Since then, it has been the same inspectorate that has said that his authority, his supervisory authority, has said, [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: It wasn't him!]] that there is no environmental impact on the cut-off of 4 hectares from Lake Balaton. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Don't talk nonsense!]] So the softening of the legislation, the dismantling of the institutional system, has caused a great deal of risk so far. We are now at the point that almost every investment, every government intention, is created by a new law that exempts the investor from most of the licensing procedures, such as the City Park Act, the Normafa Act. These lay down specific rules, which obviously only risk and increase bureaucracy, as they must meet different legal conditions. In many other cases, even in the case of decisions taken by public authorities, the Authority's specific interpretation of the law, and its approach more than the letter of the law, can often be presumed in cases where we are talking about individual beneficiaries and a losing public interest in many cases. I can bring up the case of Balatonfenyves again and again. The removal, pooling of environmental authorities and administrative authorities, as well as the associated professional, professional and moral erosion, are a direct consequence, and this simplification of authorisation is obviously why it poses specific additional risks in this field. Direct management of the authorities' powers and the concentration of government offices, the possibility of direction, and the speed of free fall reduce the ability of licensing procedures to take into account the public interest, since any Natura 2000 area, protected area, reduction of procedural deadlines can obviously result in a deterioration in the quality of the assessment of the effects. In the same way, the annual XLVIII on mining. In the case of amendments to law, in the protected natural area, in the field of water base protection, there is no guarantee in the future that environmental aspects will be enforced if, for example, notification is sufficient instead of authorisation. Obviously, this is accelerating, but it is clearly damaging to nature conservation interests. Speaking of environmental simplifications, I have already talked relatively long about why agricultural and agricultural facilitations are good and what could be further facilitated for farmers, but, for example, the amendment to the treatment of water manure is extremely risky. It is clear that there could be political comments here on the impact of Lőrinc Mészáros' pig colony on the impact of the new slaughterhouse system and pig farming in the Bonafarm of Sándor Csányi's interest, but one thing is certain that facilitating the regulation of this treatment of water manure is all that serves, but not in the public interest, because this clearly involves additional environmental risks both in water base protection and in the areas concerned. This is exactly what we can't really say would help bring public interest to the fore. In itself, it is useful to adapt the administrative deadlines to the general administrative deadlines set out in Ket. Obviously, in many cases, we can say that this is good. This includes the preliminary investigation procedure, but also in the case of the environmental and operational authorisation procedure and public hearing, where not only civil rights are reduced, but environmental risks are significantly increased with this step. As an interesting parallel, let me say that the environmental policy objectives set out in the fourth environmental programme, for example, are reduced by these expectations. The environmental programme was adopted through government proposals for such investments, which is likely to have an environmental risk and impact, and the environmental programme approaches investments with a preventive approach. These time limits could now jeopardise the achievement of this. So, it would be good if the bureaucracy reduction efforts were to be implemented in ways that would strengthen, not weaken, the environmental policy system. If I may, Mr Secretary, I would like to say a few more specific points, which have been partly affected by my fellow Members who have already spoken to me. For example, the annual CLV on consumer protection. Amendment to the Act, to which my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, has already pointed out that such a reduction in bureaucracy is in no way in the interests of citizens. To date, in addition to small and medium-sized enterprises, farming bodies have been obliged to employ a consumer rapporteur, according to the amendment, this is no longer an obligation but an option. It's definitely not good, it's undesirable. Obviously, it is appropriate to consider the amendment in this regard. The amendment concerns only the indication of the price and the application of the customer's book and, in the event of a breach of the opening rules, allows for the legal consequences of the ex officio procedure on the basis of the check and, in all other cases, the possibilities of the infringement of consumer protection are reduced. Obviously, this is not particularly desirable either, and this is not in the interests of citizens and the interests of consumers. Deletes from sectoral legislation at the moment by Ket. the obligation to use it, and in the course of the Consumer Protection Authority's procedure, we consider this to be particularly problematic, since in all other cases the time limits and some other things are adapted to the Ket., but here it is being reduced in terms of consumer protection, which is in no way favourable. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Why?]] It is also risky for the national economy... [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] Mr Secretary, if you will try to respond in a proper debate instead of mumbling, I would like to thank you, but I cannot listen to your mumbling, so please understand. If you take part in this debate, I will be able to respond in return. Therefore, the 2006 LIII on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major economic importance. We also believe that the amendment of the law is a minor risk, since it eliminates the possibility of extending the deadline in the case of priority cases, and it is not certain that this can be a good thing, since there may also be risks that would be good to prevent. In the case of my better fellow Members, there are always matters relating to the legislation on loans, but after this has been omitted, let me mention that the 2009 CLVII on loans to consumers. There is also an amendment in the amendment to law that requires the consumer loan contract to be made available 7 days before the conclusion of the contract in the case of mortgage or real estate financial leasing. According to the amendment, during this period the consumer can accept the offer, so the contract can be concluded sooner. In our view, this essentially overrides the original rule, and in banking practice it can lead to the fact that customers do not actually receive the draft in advance, which can also cause harm to customers. Let me mention one more thing, which is also linked at some level to environmental health, with regard to the amendment of the law on general rules for the provision of safe and economical pharmaceutical and medical aids and the distribution of medicinal products, which amends the deadline for the ethical procedure of the chambers of health. We do not really see why this whole system should be included, partly involving a very narrow segment, and partly violating the interests of health professionals, because if we practically speed up the procedure, we could jeopardise the professional, prudent decision of the Ethics Committees. Last time on the matter involving Mary Sándor, I believe that good morals and morals have been significantly damaged. Accelerating this may give rise to further concerns. [[13.30]] All these amendments will be tabled. All of this obviously does not compromise the fact that we are promoting the positives that we have said earlier, where we see the good intentions of the legislator. However, we ask that if we have this legislative amendment system in the same package before us, then you should understand that the adoption of these amendments can help us to adopt the whole of the legislation, because unfortunately, without them, this draft remains only a single one. We ask that environmental and environmental legislation and nature conservation legislation consider the proposals on the risks associated with bureaucracy reduction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-06-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering a two-minute break. I would ask my fellow Members to remain in this House. After two minutes of technical break, we will continue our work. [[It's a short break.]] Thank you for understanding my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, For a longer item on the agenda, a technical break may be ordered. Statement by Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-06-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to start thinking about the bill from the point where I obviously cannot and do not want to overlook the fact that five or six years ago, when they were preparing for governance before 2010, how and how they felt adapted to certain issues. I'm not gonna go too far in these things, I just want to give you some indication. With regard to the basic promises, you have stated that you will create a million new jobs in the economy; you have stated that you will give people salaries that will provide a normal livelihood; you have stated that, in terms of administration and bureaucracy, you will bring about a burden reduction of around HUF 400-500 billion, primarily affecting businesses operating in Hungary, especially micro and small businesses. Now, the point of the story is that five years have passed, and in these five years, if I have already mentioned these three items - I could have mentioned another five - then it is clear to us that nothing has happened in the economy for one million new jobs, nothing has been born; in public employment I am very much concerned with the hundreds of thousands of economic refugees persecuted abroad - quoted in quotes - who, of course, are in the statistics as if they were employed in Hungary; I am not going deeper into this. In terms of living wages, what has happened is that, in relation to the poorest, say, one third of their income in public employment has been lost, these people, minimum wagers, have access to less money than in 2010, while you are rolling a multitude of posters to people - to stumble - as if the situation were better. Unfortunately, this is reflected not only in terms of jobs, but also in terms of wages, but also in terms of bureaucracy. Compared to 2010, bureaucracy has increased, the burden has increased, and the burden that otherwise restricts competitiveness has increased. I have to say that you are now starting a process - which, of course, I do not want to hate, no, I support, I add - that first the positions have been well broken down, and then you start coming back from the well-done positions, doing something good - quote - this is not even close to where you started and want to be glorified. So, I think that this is not necessarily the most correct work. And, of course, if it's bureaucracy, we can't just walk away from public service. The people who have acted in the service of the public have enjoyed in the last nearly six years that, during your administration, they have faced, say, an unchanged, not a single penny of salary, which is the basis for determining their salary; you know, Mr State Secretary, this amount is HUF 38 650. What I am trying to say is that, if we are already cutting red tape and reducing burdens, I think it is worth bearing in mind, on your part, in terms of the resources that will be released from the reduction of these burdens, that people who are taking a specific role in this will also be beneficial in a specific way. One word for one hundred, so what I'm trying to say is that the promises and the reality were very far apart. I will not go into the details that my fellow Members have already mentioned, that beer salad and many other things, but we see what has happened, that more than fifty or new taxes have been introduced, or that they have matched both the population and the entrepreneurial sphere with the increasing burden of existing taxes. Obviously, the burden on the entrepreneurial sector is the ones that, by the way, cripple economic growth, so GDP growth, which is how we have to do it. They say that research also supports the fact that in Hungary there is no such thing as average... - there is no such thing as average, but if you count the number of businesses, then a company has to face a bureaucratic burden of approximately HUF 3 million in a given year. It is often said that in the case of a business manager, dealing with these kinds of questions, which can be regarded as a bureaucratic occupation combined with this type of activity, usually consumes about 70-80 hours. It's 4-5 working days... Yeah, that's more than that. It consumes a week and a half of your annual activity. That this needs to be changed, there is no debate between us. But it is also worth looking at how it looks and how it looks In Hungary, the combined burden of bureaucracy and, let us say, what it looks like in the countries around us or on the stage of the European Union. About what we need to see is that about 10 to 10.5 percent of GDP, as far as businesses are concerned, is the burden that comes from bureaucracy on their necks. It's huge, it's over HUF 3000 billion. Of course, we need to find ways to make changes here, but - I apologize for the use of the word - I find it ridiculous when Secretary of State Lázár talks about the fact that we want to make savings of a magnitude of HUF 10 billion. With a bureaucratic burden of more than HUF 3000 billion, the order of HUF 10 billion, you know, on the basis of a quick calculation, means savings of about 0.3 percent. [[13.40]] In fact, it is possible to do good for a lot of small items, but from the source side it does not even approach what you talked about before 2010, and you did not forget this before 14 years, about the order of HUF 500 billion. I must therefore say that action must be taken in this matter, action must be taken to minimise competitive disadvantages and predictable regulatory systems must be put in place. So when change is unpredictable, because there is change, they say it is always there, there is continuity, continuity, but that the uncontrollableness of change, the unpredictableness of change is what many businesses face, no, it is not really in order. I mentioned it with one sentence, and I do not think that I am alone, that the people who do their work within the framework of bureaucracy in a good sense are therefore carrying out a multitude of administrative tasks, which, in terms of wages, are underfunded. But not only in terms of wages, salaries - this is a very important item - but also in terms of material conditions and financial, not personal payments, but also in terms of other financial and material costs, the government cannot boast of the events of the past five years. So what I want to say is that in order not to be frustrated, stress, and much more, when these people have to play a role in creating processes that obviously also create an increase in workload, they must be temporarily, and then hopefully, in order to achieve the goal of the end, these conditions must also be met. In the draft law itself, the items which appear even in relation to the sommy procedure, so if there are clear, tangible facts, there is no conflicting party that the processes in these cases should be closed within two months, within 60 days, they should be supported and eligible. I think this is a good course. Even with regard to pending decisions, the changes to the rules, options and procedural deadlines concerning appeals are, I think, something that is definitely worth supporting. I also think that it is a good way, whether it is education, examination, internal control, in relation to many kinds of matters, social policy, real estate, other matters. I think it is also good that instead of making a certificate of impunity, it is possible to ask for it from criminal records, because it also frees the individual or, where appropriate, businesses from a lot of administrative burdens. I think it's okay for the customs authorities to increase their powers of control. But I would like to say that it is not the expansion of control powers that is most important, but that, for example, when we look at tax and customs backlogs, in my knowledge, it is in the order of HUF 2300-2500 billion that what can turn back is the essence of the story; it is not the strengthening of control permissions, but how and how the outstanding outstanding amounts are paid out as a result. I would like to say that what I feel somewhat unclear or uncertain is the imposition of a fine without a decision, which is basically true of road traffic. I do not see this if the Secretary of State would help me to confirm, in his summary, with one or two sentences, how and how you think about this, I would thank you. Also, the other area in question is for me, and it has been said several times today, the abolition of the use of consumer protection rapporteurs, which I believe to be accompanied by an injury to the interests of customers and people. This bill is en bloc, if I count correctly, accompanied by the amendment of 110 laws. With regard to the amendment of 110 laws, it is the consistency that I would like to draw attention to and provide an example. This bill is the 29th. Article 68 of the Penal Code amends Article 68 of the Penal Code. Article 157 of the Act, paragraph 8 of the Act, followed by Article 157 of the Act. Article 68 of the Penal Code. the whole of §8 of the Act. Don't you, Secretary of State, feel the lack of consistency? This was just an example of what might be worth looking at, clarifying what has been written on paper so far. If there is a need for a narrow summation, I would like to say that simplification, acceleration, measures for the benefit of people and businesses are welcome and should be supported. The need for personal, material and financial conditions is essential. The experience of everyday life, the past five years, nearly six years and the optimism of the bill are not synchronized. And with regard to public service wages, I would like to reaffirm that if we achieve any result, then the profits of achieving this, the benefits of those who are present as subjects of bureaucracy, must be present as beneficiaries. Minister Lazarus raised what people were getting for their taxes. I don't want to get lost in deep boogies, but we know what they've been given, whether in terms of health care or education or in terms of public service. There's too much good I can't talk about, so I'm not going deep. He also mentioned the main priorities. Here, I would like to take one out of four: the issue of EU funds. Here, I would like to urge the government to adapt the public procurement logic to these processes in such a way that it will lead as much as possible to the development of non-corruption. You mentioned one more thing that I would like to give you a brief feedback on, it's bringing government offices and district offices to life. I would also like to say that, of course, we should have been careful, say, to those administrative bodies, to the labour network, but also through the NAV, which should not be given political responsibilities, but should be in the interests of the people. I would like this to continue to happen in the coming period. Once again, I would like to stress that talking about the HUF 10 billion savings in addition to the fact that you said HUF 500 billion before the elections, this means some cynicism, at least taking on what you have proclaimed and fighting for, because this is 50th part of what you have said as a promise. One word, however, is to encourage those who have not been given anything in six years with a hundred administrative careers, and I think it is again a category of cynicism. My final thought, Mr President, is that, with great respect, I would like to ask that, if there are proposals for amendments from the opposition side, proposals for improvement, the government should be ready to accept this, because I believe that, yes, we can do more on both sides of the horseshoe than you can do on both sides; this is also seen in the paper laid down. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-06-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Szilágyi György, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor.
u2015-10-06-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When I return to the two-minute technical break, if I were to repel him, I could also say that Mr Secretary of State did not comment on my fellow Member's speech, but merely indicated that he would need a two-minute technical pause, but that I would not tell the truth and lie, because during this debate, Mr Secretary of State is very much bored with this debate, yawning, commenting, interrupting, but otherwise, I would like to draw the State Secretary's attention to the fact that he has the right and the opportunity to comment on this debate before the closing and to express his opinion. Ask for the floor, you will be given the floor, and you will be able to state your position without, let's say, commenting on all this. [[13.50]] Otherwise, the Secretary of State may prefer that we go from this administrative dictatorship to a genuine one-party dictatorship, but we hope that it will never come back to this country and that the same multi-party system will remain. Unfortunately, then, in such a debate, even if you may not like it, you must bear the fact that the opposition can at least give its opinion on this law orally. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: You can say it in writing!]] about this amendment of the law, at least you can tell us your concerns that you should accept that the opposition is doing things with a better purpose in general, and perhaps you could still find in it sentences, ideas that if you were to take to heart, you might be able to create even better laws. I know that this is not a standard practice for you, since no opposition amendment has been adopted in the last five years. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: That's a lie!]] Sorry, one yes, but then it was annihilated. This one was mine. I remember it. But, Mr Secretary, I say, as Sallai R. Benedek said: feel free to press the button, tell me, and then at least people who may be following this debate can hear your opinion, and not only in the closing word, when the opposition can no longer answer it. Because the easiest thing to do is to have someone in the closet tell their own truth, and then you can't argue with that. But let's keep going. There are two very important things that I think should be taken into account in the administration and in the reduction of bureaucracy. And perhaps one of the best things would be to take these things to heart. One is a change of mind. A change of view should be made, because in the last 25 years the so-called "brother" system has been established, when someone is simply politically unreliable, or because someone is someone else, then they must be placed quickly in public administration, and it doesn't matter whether they are professional or professional, it doesn't matter whether they are able to perform this task professionally, the point is that they need to find a job. That's one of them. And the other is when they're not even looking for someone for a particular position and putting them in, but just because they're someone else's, we pick them up quickly, and we figure out what they're gonna do, and we're gonna assign different powers to them. Both of these are very harmful to public administration, since the proven system is fundamentally damaged, the process will be much slower and it will be more difficult to make the whole process more efficient. The other is important, and if you'll allow me, I'll give you an example. My fellow Member, Gábor Staudt, has already said that, for example, the knowledge of the law of the administrators also determines how smooth it is when a citizen wishes to have the State deal with a matter. They came to me with a complaint that in a very complicated case, in a simple temporary address announcement, the citizen had to go back to the government office four times, because the same administrator had always forgotten to tell him three times what document to bring in, or he was wrong about who to sign. When this man went back to the government office for the fourth time, he was completely, by the way, rightfully angry with the state, even though this process could have been arranged with a normal administrator in five minutes. It took him four days. The other is to examine the pointless and lifeless rules that increase bureaucracy and reduce the efficiency of the process. Let me give you an example of this, too, if I was already at the address announcement: the provision in my opinion is lifeless and pointless in Hungary today, that if someone has a permanent address, he cannot change this permanent address until he can register another permanent address. In a country where a lot of people don't have self - owned homes or houses, it's very difficult to report a permanent address. If you have moved from the permanent address you were registered to, the authorities will look for you at your permanent address and you will not find it at your permanent address. It will therefore be much more difficult for the authorities, as well as for the individual citizen who may not receive official papers. Today, according to the law in Hungary, it is not possible for someone to say that I do not have a permanent address, but I do have a residence address, so please note that and keep this to me. That's not possible. If someone rents an apartment, very few owners allow them to check in at a permanent address. So unviable rules hinder citizens, as well as the state and the various agencies, so that a process can be carried out smoothly and as quickly as possible. These pointless and unviable rules should also be reviewed, to see how it can be made more rational and efficient, where appropriate, the conduct of a process. But as long as the state refuses to do so until the state can and does not intend to do so, it is a pity to do such absolutions. That is why we need a complex, comprehensive and comprehensive reform, which I know is not two minutes, but we should start this work and finally work on making people's lives really better and making their administration easier at any level. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I welcome Mr Eiki Nestor, President of the Estonian Parliament and members of his delegation, who, at the invitation of Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, are staying in Hungary on an official visit. I wish you good success and a rich stay in Hungary for your further negotiations. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, submitted a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, One thing I forgot to explain in my earlier longer-breathed comment is that I would like to draw your attention to it in these two minutes. If I understand it correctly, Minister Lazarus spoke about the fact that a reduction in staff will be carried out, and he also said that in the second half of 2016 they wanted to make a change in the public service salary system. Well, the point is, I don't think these two questions should be shuffled together. When, as we have just mentioned, the red tape costs about HUF 3000 billion and you want to save HUF 10 billion, you would like to say that you are going to reduce the number of people, well, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, especially during the first period, during the transition period, these colleagues will be paired with a lot of strain and a lot of overload. Of course, it is a long time ago that a different system of system and salary improvements in the public service should be made, since, as I said, the salary base has been unchanged for the sixth year of your administration. This is unprecedented, and it has not been since the moment of the change of regime that there has been no increase in the amount of the salary base under a government. That's six years ago, at your time, as I said, 38 650 forints. Soso, if you have not done anything about this, if you want to bring such a level of savings to life within the framework of this bill and not the 500 billion forints promised, then don't threaten people with firings! Thank you very much.
u2015-10-06-58	Thank you, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by independent Member László Varju. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-59	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, It is also one of today's news reports, as they slowly drip the information that the public administration will be transformed in the sense that the region of Central Hungary, Budapest and the county of Pest should be separated. One of the consequences of this is that administration or bureaucracy in this regard, at least in terms of number, will certainly be more than less. That is what I wanted to say, as the Minister spoke before me about this in relation to EU funds. I would like to draw attention to the fact that with this initiative, which concerns separation, I agree with, support, and indeed, as before at the 2010 government transfer, you should have done so a long time ago. Unfortunately, the fact is that here, for example, where the reform of the public administration has been delayed, outside the outer edges of Pest County, this has led to a very significant disadvantage in the area of the agglomeration that they could not obtain adequate resources. [[14.00]] And since you have wasted your time and basically excluded those settlements from the 2014-2020 period, there are 174 settlements in Pest county, by the way, most of them have been excluded from this possibility, that is the absence of this administrative transformation. This is related to the fact that when you promised to review all of this and 110 of it are passed, its substance and its important element are missing. I wanted to point out to you that you still have a lot of work to do. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-06-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. Yes, Mr László Teleki applied for a two-minute speech. Before I give the floor, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and to give the chair to Vice President István Hiller. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2015-10-06-61	Dear Parliament, Welcome. I am sad to announce to the Honourable Parliament that the former President of the Republic of Hungary, Árpád Göncz, has passed away. He's been a legend in his life. I ask the Honourable Parliament to stand in his memory. [[The people in the room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Congressman László Teleki, MSZP.
u2015-10-06-62	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Minister's exposé, I think it was very large, but I very much missed the chapter when he spoke about the municipalities, where the national authorities are going, what hierarchy they are going to. You can't even see this line anyway. I think they have repeatedly forgotten that national governments, whether local national governments or county national governments, are trying to put in the big hat where their operation can be managed. I don't really see it in this stuff. So my question is where the national authorities will be located. But I'd like to move on, not just the local and county levels, but the national ones, too. And not only because we see every day the press reports that appear in the system of the National Roma Municipality, the shortcomings that are certainly also the shortcomings of the public administration, that the abuses that have taken place on the basis of the press's information have occurred. So I think that this issue must be dealt with in particular, because if you miss out on the machine, the system that is trying to ensure the cultural autonomy of nationalities is going in the wrong direction. I trust that the only reason why national governments have not been included at local, county and national level is because they have somehow missed their values and did not count on this. However, once again, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Minister, who is not here at the moment to look at this issue in any way, to examine how to turn it into public administration, so that the local, county and national levels can function under the aegis of the Roma minority self-government and the other 13 minority self-governments. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-06-63	Thank you very much. I am asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I note that no one has applied for further speeches. The general debate is closed. The Secretary of State has indicated his wish to react to what has been said in the debate. Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-64	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, In the last four hours, we have had enough of it, and perhaps it should be said so, this bill that has been tabled, which has been discussed in a manner that is consistent with Parliament's particular weight. After all, a number of comments also expressed good intentions and criticised the proposal. First of all, I would like to thank the fellow Members and factions who supported the general approach and general nature of the bill, as Parliament has sometimes discussed this proposal in very detailed rules. But I think that we can all agree in general that the Hungarian Government has introduced a proposal into Parliament by amending 110 laws on bureaucracy reduction. This is a good direction, and no one has disputed it, and many have even supported it. I would also like to say that this proposal, although the government is the rapporteur, but I would like to answer the points in the first place, was made up of proposals coming up from the end, from the administrators. This has also been said in the Expoze, some 1107 proposals have been made for an Internet platform, which is an internal Internet forum for government agencies. This was the case from the point of view of the practice of the administrators and what they experienced in the course of their administration, which, if any, even customers complained about asking them for bureaucratic or unnecessary documents or papers, or that the procedure was lengthy. Because what's the purpose of a client? The client's goal is to get his case taken care of. This is the primary goal, especially if there is no counter-interested client. Secondly, that this should be done in an appropriate way and that it should be handled relatively quickly. Therefore, one of the main elements of this bill is to change the rules on the deadline and procedure. It's really part of a process. After all, a number of honourable Members have raised the need to include other procedural rules, and other rules in other sectors should also be reviewed. We have now introduced this proposal from the first practical point of view, otherwise in consultation with the professional sectors, and even in consultation with interest representatives. As Minister Lazarus said in the exposé, this is the intermediate stage of a long process. After all, first of all, we've created the organizational system itself. This was the subject of the expozee, namely the external-internal integration of government offices, the establishment of the district organisation system. And here I would like to make a parentheses comment. Some have suggested that the municipalities have been removed from the legislation in recent years. I would like to say that we wanted to establish a clear relationship in these matters. What the state has to do with the division of tasks is to do with the state, which is a matter for the local community, and stay with the local community. This is now an explicit assessment of the administrative and administrative aspects. Because who would argue that, let's say, the violation, the sanctioning of small delicts is not a state task, why it is a municipal task. Or, say, the family of documents, documents, driver's license or passport, why is it a municipal matter? That's a state issue. Or I could say that the state-owned social security system, which, by the way, was in the state, was regulated only at the Treasury, at county level, is now in the spirit of decentralisation to the districts, so even closer to the clients. This also means a change of attitude, honourable Members. The former socialist governments preferred regionalism, didn't they? So they wanted a whole regional system to be built alongside the statistical and regional development regions, which may have a local government, and to add to the administrative matters that are now at the government offices and the district offices. [[14.10]] Steps have also been taken in this case, completely irregular steps, because a two-thirds law has been amended by a half law. In doing so, they also did so, let us say, that for a long time, for nearly two years, the judicial control of the municipalities had not been carried out, although, if we are talking about the number of apparatuss now, the socialist governments continued to maintain the same apparatus. But back to the essence of the bill, the second is the extension of the management options in addition to the establishment of the organisation. Several people have also mixed the concept of the administration or the professional question here. Obviously not everyone is a lawyer, and not everyone is an administrative or administrative expert, so I do not hold this against them, but it is worth making such a proposal, even if it is so long, to adapt and look at the legislation, and to interpret these laws, and then perhaps there are no speeches such as György Szilágyi's, or I could list other fellow Members. And the third part of what we are talking about today is shaping the legislative environment. With regard to the legislative environment, we are talking, on the one hand, about cutting red tape from the customer side, and, on the other hand, we are also trying to reduce within the organisation system itself the administrative mechanisms that, in many cases, affect the outcome, which may not be necessary. There is an important element of this, which is included in the proposal, that public organisations are emailing each other electronically, and it is not that the letter was stuck in the mail, or we are waiting for it to be mailed; it is a more accessible, verifiable and much faster system, and it is much cheaper than the previous ones. As far as the main aspects of the procedure are concerned, a number of people have suggested that this is the right direction on administrative deadlines. I would like to say that you may not know, but there are a thousand different deadlines from the administrative procedural law, in which the general time is 21 days - from 30 to 21. So not 21 days is exciting, but what in government regulations and laws is, by the way, legislation itself or even the government has regulated over the past decades, and there are extremely long, 210-day, 180-day procedural deadlines. We propose a general reduction of 25 per cent for 200 deadlines in the proposal. On the basis of our analysis and assessment and in consultation with the sectors, we see that the matter can also be dealt with within this. I wouldn't particularly consider the sommy procedure, because that's what we were talking about. We're talking 23 million cases. There's no NAV cases in this. Most of the 23 million cases will be settled in eight days, but there are 1 million 300,000 cases that won't be settled after 60 days. These include - as one of the fellow Members mentioned to use his word - administrative tricks, and there are customer tricks, because even if there is a client of counterintelligence, they are trying to circumvent the legislation. That is why we are introducing - if Parliament accepts it, and I see that there has been no debate between us here - the objective two-month pending decision. We say to the administrator, if it breaks, if it breaks, it has to be dealt with. Obviously, this also occurred to me that it would be simple then: then rejecting the decision. However, there is a benchmarking system in the public administration today; a person who will, as someone has put it, noticeably reject a number of cases during the proceedings, his superior or his direct colleagues feel that he will act in an inappropriate way. But there are also exceptions, because there are rules where you have to allow decisions to be made beyond 60 days. And to have a sanction for the system, this means that, as stated in the expozee, if there is no procedural fee or administrative service, it will be worth 10,000 HUF to the client as compensation or compensation, and if there is, it will come back to him. Thus, the administrator who thus behaves as a slendrian or inadequately and causes damage to the state has no place in the system. As a result, it may arise how such procedures can be reviewed, procedural legislation and material legislation. Currently, we now use the so-called knowledge base in government windows, in which the wallets upload up-to-date legislation. This includes procedural deadlines and an administrative guide for the administrator to make the procedure more transparent and easier. The suspension of the procedure takes place in very many cases during each procedure. As far as we're concerned, you're only allowed to suspend the procedure by law. So far, it could be done on the basis of government regulations. We believe that the Parliament's control of the executive power will limit this, so it cannot be unlimited to suspend the proceedings on the head and neck. The second-degree procedure is also an important element of the proposal, since 40 percent of the cases - I repeat: 40 percent - are reopened, so many times repealed. So the administrator, who is going into a second-degree procedure, sees what his fault is, or what procedure or evidence the administrator has not carried out in the first instance, can do so himself in second instance, so that the procedure will not start again - where appropriate, even a change of legislation - but must do so in the second instance. This is an essential element of the proposal. As far as the notification is concerned, a number of speakers have also analysed the legislation; the notification and the authorisation procedure. Sallai R. Benedek went through what was written to him, and that's why I didn't always understand exactly, which is why I told him to say it a little slower so that he could understand it. He said that this is not a proper procedure for the environment and nature. I would like to say that the proposal itself does not allow authorisation, it cannot be transformed into a notification in the case of a high level of public interest, public health, public order, public security and - I stress, Mr President, I say to you - nature and environmental protection and partly related regulatory constraints of the European Union and, on the other hand, in proceedings involving counter-interested customers. It is obvious that this means protecting customer rights in line with the Fundamental Law. The audit continues, and our approach is that the authorisation procedure so far, to which various documents had to be submitted for all forms of paper and licences under material legislation, still exists, can only start the activity, and the verification shows that this is justified or not justified. If it is illegal, it has a sanction, contrary to the fact that now anyone can re-submit an authorisation procedure the next day without any particular consequences, even if they have committed unlawful or unlawful conduct in this case. We are transforming 25 of these procedures into the form of notification, but we are not changing the financial legislation in this matter. Dear fellow Members, I would like to say to the individual Members' speeches that I am not sure in the order of the speeches. Dániel Z. Carpathian left the meeting room a good two hours ago, apparently because of his urgent public duties. [[György Szilágyi: Bureau meeting! He's a member of the Bureau.]] That doesn't match Parliament's work. And Congressman Szilágyi was just saying that you shouldn't talk about what you're saying, so at least do it for yourself now and don't yell at me. [[György Szilágyi: It's closing time! You can't push a button! The president's ringing the bell.]] I'd like to say I'd like to move forward on the merits of the case. For over 250 people, let's call them multinational or larger-scale companies, so there is customer service, so leave the law as an opportunity to become consumer consumer rapporteur. But next to it is the customer service, which replaces it. [[14.20]] It also occurred to me that the labs are in multinational companies. That's definitely a lie, because the Nébih labs are located at the National Food Safety Agency, and they're basically operating in government buildings. So I don't think it's worth giving the students false information. As far as consumer protection is concerned, it has been strengthened under the Orbán government, as instead of a consumer protection authority, there is an administrative body, an assistant State Secretary, under the leadership of the Deputy State Secretary, and the units of consumer protection supervisors will also be strengthened in numbers and in other ways at government offices. In addition, they carry out joint investigations with the tax office, occupational safety, labour surveillance and a number of organisations during their proceedings. I would like to say to Mr Luke, and I have gathered it, perhaps I will find the proposals that none of the 400 000 proposers for health have proposed a reduction in bureaucracy or a reduction in public debt. I'll tell you what they've done and how many thousands. This concerns a significant number of citizens and large-scale cases: 182 000 proposed for the exchange of documents, 211 000 proposed for the exchange or replacement of stolen certificates, 142 000 proposed for the registration of the registration licence, 135 000 proposed for the termination of the basic fee for the admission procedure, and 172 000 proposed for the authority's moral certificate in order to reduce the public costs here, i.e. the administrative service fee and the levy. And here I would turn back to Nándor Gúr's speech. This HUF 10 billion is a specific item for the reduction of administrative service fees and fees, but in the course of the transformation, there have already been a few billion savings in the exchange of modern machines in the IT park, from EU sources, from the KEOP and from the organizational transformations, I know for myself that there have been a number of billions of savings in government offices as a result of the transformations. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sándor Szabó spoke on construction. I would like to inform you that the information may not have been provided, that the Prime Minister's Office consults the Chambers of architects nationwide, and in a large package, that is the next bureaucracy reduction package, that the Minister spoke of, this consultation with the Chambers and professional organisations on how to put building in a next package of citizens' construction matters as a legislative amendment, in the form of legislative proposals or amendments to government decrees, to examine construction in terms of bureaucracy reduction. Congressman Gúr raised a specific issue, the transport issue. I would like to say that this means that there will not be an official procedure, but that there will be on-the-spot fines in transport matters. This is also a reduction in bureaucracy. Therefore, you will not receive a separate decision, but will be dealt with locally if there is an irregularity. As regards your proposal to reduce the number of staff, Minister, you have not mentioned any reduction in staff in the public administration, I would like to state that. He gave comparative data on the percentage of the state apparatus in Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Germany as compared to Hungary. And he talked about becoming a career model at the lower and middle levels of the territorial administration from 1 July 2016. The financial condition for this has already been established in the budget for next year. Dear fellow Members, I hope I've been able to answer all the points. If not, then it is obvious that there will be a detailed debate even at the TAB meeting. We are open to all the proposals that bring the common issue forward in order to cut red tape, because this is a matter for all of us. And in this, I would like to deny Mr Szilágyi that a number of opposition proposals have already been adopted during the past period of governance, not one. [[György Szilágyi: Name one!]] It may not be yours, but it's taken in quite a few. [[György Szilágyi: Say one thing!]] the national. I've been there myself. Finally, Mr President, please allow me to finish with the thoughts of a classic professional. Zoltán Magyary said: "The administration is not the power of individual people over the others, but to achieve the common goals of the organization of the nation, to meet our common needs. Public administration has no other means of existence, no other than the service of man and the nation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is my recommendation to all of you, and I would like your support. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-65	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. [[György Szilágyi: Minister of State did not listen well to the Minister's words. Dr. Zoltán Kovács: For what?]] Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the proposal for a decision on the day of the Hungarian sporadic will follow until closure. The submission submitted by Mr Zsolt Németh, Károly Pankő, Árpád János Potápi, Members, Fidesz; Zsolt Semjén, Member, KDNP, H/6390. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Németh, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-66	Mr President, Dear House, On Sunday, I went to a sporadic settlement near Košice at a church consecration. I would like to quote the text of the invitation: After 12 years of hard work by God's grace, the Reformed congregation of Komaroc came there to restore its church to the full by offering sacrifices to the congregation, and from the funds received in the Hungarian applications. And two days later, this national debate takes place in the Hungarian Parliament on the day of the sporadic. I think that when I took on the role of the speaker of this event, this commemoration, I did not know that it was not a coincidence that these two days were so close to each other, because it was an extraordinary experience of the Hungarians' desire to live when we could report such results in a sporadic settlement. In agreement with my fellow Members, 15 November will be presented as the day of the Hungarian sporadic. First, a few words about why we would like to take this day on November 15th, and then why we consider it important that the sporadic be given a different day. November 15th is also the day of Gábor Bethlen's birth and death. On this day he was born the prince of Transylvania, Fairyland, to whom Transylvania's golden age is most attached. That's why the prince's picture was on our 2 thousand forints note, and that's why we chose this historical figure in Transylvania. We thought that Hungarians living in the sporadics felt worthy and close to them, who was born in a sporadic region in the county of Hunyad, Marosilly. But the election would be ours only symbolically, because the proposal of the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin is based on our proposal, i.e. at the request of Hungarian representatives across the border, we propose the Sporadic Day on 15 November. The initiative came from them. In Transylvania and the public media, the day of the sporadic has been celebrated for a long time on November 15. This is a little similar to the way that the 4th of June became a day of national solidarity throughout the country, as the Hungarian Parliament made the 4th of June a day of national solidarity. And it is also an interesting parallel that the KMKF made a first mention of the day of national integration in a decision, even though it did not indicate the 4th of June at the time. [[14.30]] Secondly, about the content itself, why, in our opinion, it is necessary today to dedicate a symbol and a day to the Hungarian sporadic every year. I don't know how many Hungarians in the motherland realize that, for example, Košice's surroundings, Zoboralja, Bánát or Maramures are now sporadic regions, that Hungarian education is now lost in Temes County. What's the sporadic? We call the minority that does not have a coherent territorial relationship, and from a sociological point of view, a group that cannot preserve its national identity without external assistance, i.e. lives in a foreign language environment, and no longer has a related territorial relationship with the Hungarians. By Hungarian sporadic, we mean our Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin and Moldavia. The Hungarians living in Western Europe, America, Australia and Africa can be distinguished by the name Diaspora. Their contribution to the prosperity of Hungarians and their problems are once again specific, different from the Hungarian sporadics living in the territory of Trianon's successor state. Of course, this is our intention, and I think that the coming period will decide what content the sporadic day will be filled with in the Carpathian Basin and in the world. Sporadicism has degrees. The strength of a sporadic community depends on the percentage of the minority nation within the population, its absolute number, its school system and other institutions, the existence of religious, municipal, cultural and media institutions, and its level of development. There are sporadics that can be called islands, because the proportion of the Hungarian population is high, but the community lives in isolation and has no connection to the block. For this reason, the Szekler villages of Bukovina, whose population has been relocated to the territory of today's Serbia, are considered examples in the South. In light of these, the number is fluctuating, which can be regarded as a sporadic somewhere between 200,000 and 1 million in the Carpathian Basin. We can see that it is very difficult to describe exactly what can be regarded as a sporadic. However, one thing is certain: the sporadic process is accelerating. Within the Hungarians across the border, more and more people live in a minority by some aspect than in a block. What's left of the block-Hungarian territory? First of all, Szeklerland as the largest block with two and a half counties, and the northern part of Partium, Bihar, Szatmár county, but we can take the Csallóköz in the Felvidék, perhaps the Bodrogköz, northern Bácska in the South, the Tisza mint in Serbia, so the settlements that today are most exposed to the migrant flood - I refer to this in the South. In any case, the part of Transcarpathia along the Tisza is still a block today. Let me quote from Reformed pastor László Vetési, one of the most well-known sporadic researchers, with a thought: Based on current trends, according to a survey by the National Institute of Minority Research, in the absence of effective intervention, the minority institutional system could collapse in nine Transylvanian sporadic counties by 2032. Namely Arad, Banská Bystrica-Nasód, Brasov, White, Hunedoara, Krasov-Bird, Maramures, Sibiu, Temes counties. According to the latest census data, 1 million 237 thousand Hungarians lived in Romania in 2011, including 1 million 224 thousand in Transylvania. In 20 years the Transylvanian Hungarian community has lost more than 378 thousand souls, out of which 140 thousand can be clearly attributed to the sporadic. Loss rates vary from region to region. The losses in the Szeklerland and Partium are relatively small, but in Central Transylvania, Cluj-Napoca and Tarosvásárhely the Hungarians in sporadic, mischief and northern Transylvania are in demographic decline. In two decades, the Hungarians in Arad County, for example, decreased from 61,000 to 37 thousand, from 54,000 to 34,000 in Maramures, and from 7800 to 3,200 in Krassó-szerény. The number of Hungarians calculated from 2001 to 2021 is the following from country to country: from 521 thousand to 443 thousand in Slovakia. From 157 thousand to 125 thousand in Ukraine, but this figure does not account for the war that has already made this number possible today. Romania will lose from 1.43 million to 1.09 million, Serbia from 293 thousand to 208 thousand, Croatia from 17 thousand to 8 thousand, Slovenia from 6 thousand to 3 thousand. Austria's exception, there is some growth to be expected. But we know that Hungarian numbers also show a negative trend. Ladies and gentlemen, With the help of the data described, it was really my intention to draw attention to a task ahead of us, the importance of creating a clear sporadic strategy. Unfortunately, they, who woke up in the sporadic today, have problems and everyday problems other than the Hungarians living in blocks across the border. The means of keeping the language, keeping the culture, the school, the church, the inscriptions, the use of the mother tongue in public institutions, are their problems. As my fellow Members have read in the explanatory statement of the resolution proposal, they are indeed entering a foreign environment the minute they close the door to the family house or the door to their dwelling. And this environment they step out of is often not supportive. These problems, other than those of the Hungarian bloc, can only be found locally and often unique solutions. The resolution of certain fundamental minority issues is generally valid, of course, for Hungarians living in Romania, but their settlement does not solve the specific problems of the sporadic. In particular, the demand and problem of the sporadic sporadics in the Upper and Banat region differ from Budapest. Therefore, the sporadic problem is much more complex than it seems at first. The starting point for the sporadic strategy can in any case be a very thorough survey, broken down into regions, small areas, municipalities and, where appropriate, the level of institutions. Several strategic approaches and visions have been created for sporadic problems in several workshops in recent years. This includes the proposal of the National Strategy Research Institute, which has become known as pearl fishing. The essence of this is to take children's education from the sporadic to the block, which means saving the population of the sporadic, but the forced abandonment of its territory. The pearls are therefore the Hungarian children, who would be gathered into regional centres. The opponents of this argument argue that we can shut down primary schools in sporadic villages where there are still small Hungarian classes. According to a reverse idea, schools should be strengthened exactly where the sporadic Hungarians live, i.e. they want to strengthen the lawns by building, organizing and supplying the sporadic region on a regional basis. The starting point of this strategy is the assumption that some communities are so viable that the process of sporadicisation can be stopped for them. An example of this approach is the primary school on the field trip to Zoltán Kalló's name or the primary school in Vice in Bistrica County, which is linked to the Catholic reverend István Gergely, where children are often gathered from the surrounding, very poor villages by sibling couple, who then like their school, grateful for thinking. This is, in fact, today's version of the old Reformed school system, which at that time was intended to seek out talent and to provide opportunities for further education. Today, the goal is to save talent and, of course, save Hungarians. [[14.40]] But we could also mention Csaba Böjte, who is actually running a similar institutional system with the Franciscan brothers, an orphanage network. Of course, it was also originally a little different motivation, but the two do not exclude, but strengthen each other in order of values, because he starts from saving children, others from saving the nation. Let me draw your attention to the many years-long educational program of Csángó Hungarians. In dozens of villages, more than a thousand children receive optional education, plus secondary education in Gyimes and Stripes. Every successful program, I think, and every strategy places a great emphasis on determining the relationship between the array and the sporadic, how the array can be a kind of internal mother country for the sporadic. I think that in the future, too, can be overlooked. Special attention should be paid to the implementation of Article 21 (2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). sporadic programs using information Of course, it seems extremely important for this sporadic strategy to draw up a coherent and successful strategy based on an in-depth analysis of running programmes, initiatives and their effectiveness. It is extremely important to pay attention to the background in Hungary and not only to the central administrative background in Hungary - perhaps the secretary of state will speak about this - but also to the county, local government background or civil engagement, which is a priority for sporadic programmes. Let me mention, therefore, the Unlimited Programme, the significance of which already brings tangible results, the countless programmes of the Rákóczi Association, and in particular its enrollment programme, or the Sunday School Foundation, which is linked to the name of Ildikó Benkei, and can produce very serious results in sporadic care. The November 15th sporadic day will be a day in the coming years when the main characters will be the sporadic Hungarians, primarily by presenting their culture, their outstanding figures and their support organizations, so that we too can learn from the desire to live the everyday heroes of the sporadic, and we too can draw strength from their sacrifice to our work. Trianon's 100th anniversary is not so far away, we will commemorate in five years. Our goal must be to renew the 100-year anniversary of Trianon in Hungary throughout the Carpathian Basin. That is the purpose of our proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-67	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Potápi if he wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[On the sign of János Potápi Árpád:]] It says yes. You have the floor, please.
u2015-10-06-68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For four years now, the Transylvanian Hungarians have dedicated the day of birth of the Transylvanian prince Gábor Bethlen to the sporadic Hungarians. The National Assembly has been asked several times by Hungarian organizations from abroad - from the sporadic committee of the Hungarian Permanent Conference and the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin - to declare the day as the day of the Hungarian sporadic. Sporadicism is a characteristic of the entire Carpathian Basin, as the President explained in detail. Each foreign Hungarian nation has parts of the sporadic, communities that have specific problems. Ensuring the survival of Hungarians in these areas is most at risk, mainly because of assimilation processes, and this special situation requires us to pay special attention to the Hungarians living in the sporadics, even by creating different, separate programs. However, we must pay attention to the sporadic not only for ourselves. Sporadic is the shell that protects the block. We must also do everything in order to ensure that this envelope does not break, so that the sporadic communities that represent the external borders remain. Perhaps this thinking can also be an answer to the dilemma outlined by the President in his previous speech, in his speech, about where to look or where to think, what strategies to take. This is how the issue of sporadic Hungarians becomes a common cause of Hungarians, and it is important to consider it as such. At present, Hungarians from abroad - by which I mean Hungarians from the Carpathian Basin, as we usually talk about western Hungarians as diaspora - live in Hungarian settlements of about 60 percent of the Hungarians from abroad, and 40 percent live in minorities, and half of them live in settlements in which the number and number of Hungarians do not reach 20 percent that are usually required for different minority rights. Sporadicisation is therefore a problem that affects most Hungarians from abroad. Today we can say that nearly half of Hungary lives in sporadic communities, even if some of these sporadics - as mentioned earlier - can be seen as islands, since they are majority in a given settlement, but the area is no longer a Hungarian majority settlement. The vulnerability of these communities is well demonstrated by the fact that, according to the latest census data, the drastic population loss among Hungarians abroad is largely caused by the increasing assimilation process of sporadic communities. We have to say here that not only is the number of Hungarians in these communities fading, but it is even more drastic to change its proportions compared to the majority nation. So our mission in this case is nothing less than to stop the almost unstoppable one, but this should not deter us from the task. The words of Gábor Bethlen need to confirm:, It is not always possible to do what needs to be done, but it is always necessary to do what can be done. We need to be confident that we can halt the crumbling of the sporadic. We must believe that we can slow down, and in the long term we can stop and reverse the decline in the proportion and number of Hungarians in these areas as well. In 2010, with a new foundation for national policy, the sporadic also became a new place in the national strategy, where the relations between the mother country and the sporadic communities were re-evaluated and appreciated. We must continue to do our best to ensure that those living in the sporadic feel that they have not fallen out of the nation's life. In recent years, we have tried to help and strengthen these communities. We have established the speciality committee of MÁÉRT, in which we have the possibility of continuing consultation with sporadic professionals, so that we can first-hand learn about the problems affecting the sporadic and work together with the stakeholders to resolve them. [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] From the Bethlen Gábor Fund, we support and support a number of institutions and programmes aimed at strengthening sporadic communities. I will mention only a few of these, because the President has identified in detail and many of these associations and educational and social institutions. Among the institutions of national importance, we support, for example, the road, the Szamosújvár market and the Vice sporadic college, the Csángó educational programme of the Romanian Association of Hungarian Teachers, which has nearly 30 locations. We also operate our own sporadic college program in Transylvania. I would like to highlight the House of the Hungarian Bodrogközi Közösségi Közösségi Közösségi Közösség, which will be handed over to the Bodrogközisségek tomorrow, with the support of the Hungarian National Council's sporadic school bus and schooling programme, Emmausz Boy College, the Nagybecskecskerek Girls' College, the Apáczai Student Home, will be a national institution. [[14.50]] For example, the creation and departure of the European College in Novi Sad, which may also support sporadics, can be mentioned here. In Transcarpathia, we continuously provide support for Catholic kindergartens in the sporadic, but other Reformed, Greek Catholic kindergartens and schools. We support the resources needed for the operation of Sunday's schools and supported the construction of the new Técső Reformed Lyceum college. But if we mention such educational institutions, we can safely mention the coastal educational institutions. I recently visited, for example, Nagykároly, Szatmárnémeti, where we also support schools, high schools, kindergartens and their development. We were aware and are aware that the special situation of the sporadic requires a program of its own. In this spirit, we launched the Petőfi Sándor programme in August this year, in which we send 50 scholarships to the sporadic communities of Hungarians abroad to help them preserve their valuables and strengthen their ties to Hungary through their information, community building and support activities. This program has been organized on the basis of the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor program, which has been taking place for the third year in the Hungarians living in the diaspora. The Petőfi programme also covers Romania, Ukraine, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Austria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Poland. Scholarships have been selected for various types of work as requested by the organisations. Among them are many teachers, Hungarian and history teachers, Scout, expert in tender writing, ethnographer, folk musician, folk dance teacher, kindergarten teacher and teacher. Although the main aim of this programme is to support people living in sporadics, our objective is to ensure that those living in the mother country can learn about the everyday lives of those living in the sporadics, and to make sure that those living in different Hungarian regions abroad can learn about the challenges of other regions. Among the winning applicants are 18 young people of foreign origin, who have not been sent out with the scholarship to the region from which they come, but, for example, we sent young people of Transcarpathian origin to Transylvania or to the South. But I would also like to mention the year of successful vocational training, where we help young people from sporadics to acquire professions, and within the framework of the interoperability scholarship we provided 128 young people with a month of stay in Hungary in the summer, who were able to carry out their summer internships in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I do not need to bring any further evidence that the Hungarian government has been keeping an eye on this sporadic since 2010. That is why we consider all initiatives which are also intended to promote this important. I believe that the more opportunities we devote to dialogue on the situation of the sporadic, the closer we get to a solution that, in the long term, leads to the preservation of the sporadic and to the stopping of the loss of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. Finally, allow me to quote Gábor Bethlen's letter of 23 March 1620. It is not good for me to take a principality against a great emperor, which should be against his might, and from it we shall be in danger from the nation. It is better for me to be satisfied with my few, that I should not have lost little for much. If I had crowned myself, I would never have been a more foolish, but a more miserable prince, for the Porta would have wished to give me the final houses of the land, which if I had not done, he would have threatened to attack me against the German. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read this with the intention of supporting the amendment myself to take the word "king" out of the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-06-69	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Panczél, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-70	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This proposal for a decision on the day of the Hungarian sporadic, which we are discussing here, is not without precedent, as we have heard from the rapporteur's expozee, Zsolt Németh, and the secretary of state, as he proposed already in 2012 the creation of the day of the sporadic sporadic on the commission of the MÁÉRT. At the end of last year, on 5 December 2014, this proposal was made again at the Forum of Representatives in the Carpathian Basin, and this was then included in the final statement. The resolution included this:. This is the day when, in the spirit of cooperation, the Hungarian nation pays more attention to the sporadic Hungarians through events, newscasts, lectures, conferences, community-building programs. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. For several years in Transylvania, from 2011, and in other parts of the Carpathian Basin, events have been held for about two years in the autumn period, typically in mid-November. In fact, the second precedent lies in our Fundamental Law, which was adopted in 2011. From the point of view of national policy, the most important sentence of our Fundamental Law is this: Hungary bears responsibility for the fate of Hungarians living outside its borders with a view to joining the united Hungarian nation. This rhymes with the sentence of Dezső Szabó - our writer, born in Cluj-Napoca, who has been somewhat undeservedly forgotten at the present time - which is the sentence: "All Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. This sentence is also ringing back in our Fundamental Law. Dear Parliament, Within the three-legged Hungarians, and below the three-legged Hungarians, I think about the Hungarians in the motherland, the Hungarians in the divided parts of the country, the diaspora Hungarians, well, within the three-legged Hungarians, the sporadic Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin deserve special attention in any way. We have already heard detailed figures from Zsolt Németh, it is true that about half of the Hungarians of the separated parts of the country live in sporadics. Unfortunately, there are fewer blocks and fewer Hungarians living in the block. Tömb still exists in the Csalló district in the Highlands, in Transcarpathia, in the Tiszahat region, in the Szeklerland and in the Subotica region in the Subotica region in Bácska, all other Hungarians living outside the border are considered sporadics. It's a rare nation's border. We have heard from both the author and the secretary of state that the sporadic must be protected, because if the sporadic is lost, then the block is next. The name of László Veti was mentioned in the expozee. Transylvanian sociologist László Vetési says that the sporadic is an old age of a nation. More scientifically, the sporadic is an endangered ethnic group, because of their disadvantaged spatial location, proportions and number of souls, they cannot really preserve their identity on their own. If they can't do this on their own, then we really need the support of the mother country and the block country, and I would also like to underline several times that the sporadic needs the support of the block hungarians. One of the most important problems of the sporadic communities is that this is the most exposed group of Hungarians to assimilation, most exposed to Hungarians. [[15.00]] There are extremely many mixed marriages, and sporadic areas are growing old, and migration is increasing. There are few Hungarian schools in the sporadic communities, few Hungarian teachers, few Hungarian students, few further education opportunities are limited, and we also have to say that unfortunately the sporadic areas are among the most undeveloped regions in the neighbouring countries in most places, and that is why migration from these areas is also significant. I would like to highlight two main elements of the survival of Hungarians. One is whether the survival of Hungarians is an educational, cultural, mother tongue question or an economic issue. Both are very important, and I think that we cannot ignore the economic issue, because if there is no work in place, there is also uncertainty about remaining in the homeland, there is an increase in migration. This is an opportunity for our economic policy within today's national policy, which promotes the expansion of cross-border economic relations. I could mention the Carpathian Region Business Network, which will open several new offices this year, and will work within the National Trading House Zrt. from this year. Another important thing is mother tongue and education. Here, there is a need for public-funded schools, if this is not possible, for schools or kindergartens with church reservations. Mr Secretary of State spoke in detail about the measures taken in the direction of the sporadic in recent years, and if we are on the subject of education, it is worth recalling the thematic years that have also sent messages to sporadicism and given practical assistance. This was the year of Hungarian kindergartens abroad in 2012, and then continued with the year of secondary school students, and now the year of vocational training is taking place. Sporadic colleges are very important, which are collecting places for Hungarian students in the region, and there are sporadic centers that provide Hungarian language education to high school-age students, and it is important to have a school bus programme that operates with the support of the Hungarian government and Bethlen Gábor Fund in cross-border areas, as this is how sporadic centres and schools can be reached. And it is very important indeed that culture and culture are civil society organisations and associations that operate in sporadics. These are the ones whose community-building and persevering power can really keep the sporadic, and in fact they are a meeting point for these communities. It is very important that this year's Petőfi Sándor programme was launched, which took the form of the Kőrösi Csoma program to diaspora towards the sporadic in the former Monarchy countries. In the first place, these 50 young people started this year by performing a safekeeping, community-building activity that strengthens Hungarian-Hungarian relations, and their activities also serve the preservation of the sporadic. There has been a discussion here about why the Sporadic Day is on November 15th. I think it is worthy of the historical personality, Gábor Bethlen, whose name is linked to the anniversary of his birth and death, because he was born on 15 November in Marosillye, Vajdahunyad County, which is now a sporadic, and died on 15 November in Gyulafehérvár, the former princely center, which is also now in a sporadic area. I think that his memorial plaque in the church in Gyulafehérvár is right next to two so-called great historical personalities such as György Fráter Martinuzzi and István Bocskai, his memorial plaque is located between their memorial plaque. Indeed, his name is linked to the golden age of Transylvania, and that during this period, when there was no country in the country divided into three parts, only nation, Gábor Bethlen was a prince who had placed Transylvania on the European map during the 30-year war. So let us remember his life, too, when we talk about the day of the sporadic and its time, it is in any case worthy of being linked to his person. I call on this House to support the proposal for a resolution. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-71	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Szabó, lead speaker of the MSZP Group, is next. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, my fellow Members have already said that since 2011, Gábor Bethlen's Transylvanian prince's birthday has been the day of the Hungarian sporadic. On 27 February 2011, on the proposal of Hunyad and Kovasna county officials, the DADSZ Congress in Oradea adopted a resolution declaring 15 November to be the day of the Hungarian sporadic. The decision was made because, outside the borders of the mother country, Hungarians living in the block, minority and sporadics have particular problems, and perhaps the situation of those living in the sporadics is the most threatened. In 2013, the Hungarian sporadic festival extended to the entire Carpathian Basin. The sporadic committee of the Hungarian Permanent Conference took a decision on this in May 2013. The central event in Hungary was held in the House of Hungarians on 12 November in Budapest. The participants reviewed the sporadic strategies in Transylvania, Vojvodina, Upper and Transcarpathia, education and language education in the sporadic, the phenomenon of assimilation and the situation of sporadic colleges. During the 2014 meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, the DAHR proposed that the celebration of the Hungarian Sporadic Day be sanctioned by law. Prior to the meeting of MÁÉRT, at the Transylvanian central event of the Hungarian Sporadic Day in Medgyes, Hunor Kelemen thanked all those who do community-building work in the sporadic region, stressing that the array and the sporadic are actually dependent on each other, none of them can exist without the other. According to the president of the RMDSZ, the challenges should be addressed by metropolitan sporadic communities as soon as possible. The biggest problem is that we cannot reach the people in the districts of the big cities, and even the church's help is not enough. The Hungarian communities living in Timisoara, Zilah or even in the large quarters of Cluj Napoca are the most endangered, most threatened by assimilation, said Kelemen Hunor. He highlighted the importance of mother tongue education, stated that all Hungarian children should have the opportunity to learn their mother tongue. However, in addition to the adoption of the Hungarian Sporadic Day, special attention must be paid, and the problems of sporadic communities need to be resolved, which require external help to preserve their language and culture. To this end, it has been said several times here, it is necessary to further develop and integrate sporadic centres, educational institutions and colleges into the network. In addition to strengthening secondary and higher education, further sporadic centres and colleges need to be set up, and their operation is also important. Sporadic teaching and pastoral scholarships should be launched. Special attention should be paid to metropolitan sporadics, where the shortcomings of the educational and cultural institutions need to be addressed together. There is also a need to support and increase the budget for sporadic programmes. It is also necessary to develop a comprehensive sporadic programme for a sound definition of development goals and, finally, to support sister relations and cultural programmes between the regions inhabited by Hungarians and the communities living in sporadic areas. The MSZP can therefore support the proposal for a decision on the day of the Hungarian sporadic, but we think that we should focus on the problems listed above. Thank you for listening. [[15.10]]
u2015-10-06-73	Thank you very much. Mr László Szászfalvi, lead speaker for the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-74	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You can't always do what you have to do, but you always have to do what you can. Mr. Secretary of State also quoted this important thought and sentence of Prince Gábor Bethlen, which, I think, clearly defines our task. If you can put it this way, this sentence also summarises the duty, responsibility and responsibility of Hungarian national policy. It follows, therefore, that we need a good and effective national policy, and this cannot be achieved by one or two means. Hungarian effective and good national policy must be served by a variety of means, but even that is not enough, we need to achieve the harmonious co-operation of this diverse and many types of instruments. Our Fundamental Law states:.Hungary bears responsibility for the fate of Hungarians living outside its borders, promotes the survival and development of their communities, supports their efforts to preserve their Hungarians, enforce their individual and community rights, establish their community governments, prosper in the homeland, and promote their cooperation with each other and with Hungary. Dear Parliament, Over the last five years, I believe that this national policy has been achieved and has been able to express itself more effectively and in an increasingly fulfilling way. In 2010, we adopted the Act on Witnessing for National Inclusion, and in just a few sentences I quote the government and parliamentary measures and decisions that we all know. In 2010, the new government had not yet been established, the Parliament already accepted the proposal to extend Hungarian citizenship, which also means the unification of the nation by public law.In 2010, the Government re-launched the Hungarian Permanent Conference, which is the institutionalized forum for the dialogue of legitimate Hungarian organisations formed to represent our national interests, the place of common thinking. In 2010, a specific ecclesiastical sporadic programme was launched, while the united support of sporadic and service ministers was established and strengthened. The Hungarian Diaspora Council was established in 2011. The establishment of the National Protection Office; the launch of the National Register; the launch of the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme; the Unlimited! programme, which aims to ensure that all Hungarian students travel at least once in institutional form to cross-border Hungarian communities, including sporadic areas, of course; the establishment of the Bethlen Gábor Fund; the Julian programme; educational-education grants; institutions of national importance; and we all know that 2012 was the year of foreign Hungarian kindergartens, 2013 was the year of foreign schoolchildren; the Mikes Kelemen programme, and we also heard from the Secretary of State that the Petőfi Sándor programme was launched. In addition, a number of economic programmes have been launched in the spirit of Hungarian national policy and national policy strategy. Dear Parliament, The Forum of Hungarian Representatives in the Carpathian Basin, as has already been said, proposed, at its meeting on 5 December 2014, that the Parliament declare 15 November to be the day of the Hungarian sporadic, since the greatest prince of the golden age of Transylvania, Gábor Bethlen, was born this day on 15 November 1580 in the Hunyad County Marosilly, now located in the sporadic area. For four years the Transylvanian Hungarians have been celebrating - as we have heard, I do not want to detail - the day of the Hungarian sporadic. Dear House, Undoubtedly, our nation's loss of weight is the fastest in sporadic areas, where the assimilation effect is most intensive. Due to the particular situation of the sporadic Hungarians, it requires special support methods, other than those of the cross-border block Hungarians. The day of the Hungarian sporadic highlights these sometimes background communities, and we hope that it will pay due attention to their problems. This particular peripheral and disadvantageous situation within cross-border communities justifies the fact that, in addition to the day of national integration, in the spirit and pursuit of its objectives, we pay special attention to the Hungarian sporadic. In everyday life, Hungarians living in sporadics can only be in Hungarian environments as long as they are in a family circle; they move out of their homes and into an assimilation environment. Their remaining or newly created local mother tongue institutions play a key role in maintaining the Hungarian environment. These problems can be solved locally, but of course they need the background of the motherland background, the background of the Hungarian bloc, as they can only count on them in terms of moral, infrastructure and financial support. Hungary's current government's task under the Fundamental Law and the mission of the Hungarian community is to support Hungarians living in the sporadics in every way and by any means possible in their efforts in the political, cultural, educational, ecclesiastical, charitable and economic fields. The proposal for a parliamentary decision focuses on the day of the Hungarian sporadic, our attention to these communities, this very important and priority area, and encourages the mother country and the bloc Hungary to take responsible steps. If that is the way to put it, it would like to strengthen Community, national solidarity. In connection with community solidarity, let me quote the apostle Paul, who says in the first Corinthians letter: "As the body is one, although it has many members, but all members of the body, though many, are still one body. So, if you suffer from one of the members, you suffer with him all of them. If one of the members is glorified, he and some of them rejoices with him. What else does this idea express than community solidarity, community solidarity, and I think we can apply it to our national community, our Hungarian national communities and our sporadic communities. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Thank God, a number of programmes have been launched in recent decades and in recent years that can slowly form an effective, effective sporadic strategy or form a sporadic strategy. We have heard many of these positive examples from the last speeches. It is therefore extremely necessary to bring together political, civil society organisations, churches, and the urgent and effective support of the mother country in order to preserve the communities living in the sporadics for the Hungarian nation. Through the Bethlen Gábor Fund Manager, the Hungarian Government provides a number of support for sporadic programs, the Sporadic Commission of the Hungarian Permanent Conference keeps the sporadic issue on the agenda by developing various policies, but, in addition to the motherland's attention, this solidarity can also be seen among foreign communities. We are familiar with the creation of a sporadic conservation program in Szeklerland, which aims to strengthen the self-identity awareness of Hungarians living in the sporadics and the intellectual ties of the block Hungarians and the sporadics through the organisation of cultural and other events. [[15.20]] Let me also bring here a positive example of the work of the Reformed Church District of Transylvania in addition to the many positive examples already given, since the Reformed Church District of Transylvania has an elaborate and functional specific sporadic strategy. At the same time, I would like to highlight and thank Bishop Béla Kató for his pastoral and episcopal service here. These forms of support and programmes are extremely important and essential because we all know the very negative message of the latest census data on the situation of sporadic Hungarians, which obviously has to have consequences for all of us who want to do something for them. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The presentation therefore draws our attention to our responsibility, the obligation to work together and the need for a unified, efficient, well-functioning sporadic strategy on the day of the Hungarian sporadic, many of which we can already see, but obviously we cannot sit on our laurels and hang on our feet, but also in the years to come, we must do everything in our own place to keep these castles. To conclude, I would like to quote the Transylvanian Reformed pastor László Vetis, quoted by others, who put it this way:. Whoever does not appreciate the sporadic does not deserve the block or the future. The Christian Democratic People's Party is in favour of the proposal, and let us ask all our fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-75	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-76	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, From the point of view of remaining as Hungarians, it is the sporadic communities that are in the most difficult and vulnerable situation. For them, the Hungarian state must grant all necessary and required support, just as the foreign Hungarians living in the bloc or those emigrants and their descendants living in the diaspora who left their homeland out of necessity because of the wars and revolutions of the previous centuries destroying worlds. During the puny history of our nation, we have been forced to defend ourselves many times, we have had to build a number of waiting systems in order to protect our interiors from those who wanted to destroy them, destroy them, promote them, enslave them. There is no doubt that today we are not threatened by violence, not by the destruction of war in the Carpathian Basin, but by the loss and abandonment of our language, culture, traditions, faith. We know very well that all this is true of the sporadic, while it is a regrettable fact that the sporadic settlements that have fallen are immediately followed as an almost irreversible process by the sporadicisation of areas, villages and cities, which were previously considered block-Hungarians. However, we have to say that our language, culture, traditions and this is the key to our survival as Hungarians are, to say, modern-day endowments of sporadic settlements, where, if appropriate, only a crumbling church, a crumbling school or a community house used by many others in the past reminds us of the former Hungarian world. Hungarians in these settlements fight for their survival as modern soldiers in Endvár, who still consider it important to teach their children and grandchildren Hungarian words, to attend Hungarian schools, Hungarian worship, Hungarian folk dance classes or simply to speak Hungarian. And the disdainful glances, the ridicule not only from the Ukrainians, Romanians or Serbs, but also from their own family members and friends. And let us also say that, unfortunately, the Hungarian governments of the past decades were not strong enough to support the Hungarian sporadic in the Carpathian Basin. They had the same tendency to forget them as our Habsburg kings about our castles and those who served in them. They were only unconscious when one of the important rooks collapsed, perhaps the people of the castle ran away, and a castle fell. And that is why, unfortunately, our native and cultural citadels still fall in South Transylvania, in the field, along the Upper Tisza or in the neighbourhood of Novi Sad, Nitra, Osijek and Lendva. It is a regrettable fact that only ten people declared themselves Hungarian in the home village of our Prince Gábor Bethlen, Marosilly. Dear Parliament, There are Hungarians not only in the Szeklerland or during the Csallo, but also in the counties of Hunyad, Nitra or Szerem. Not only in Beregszasz and Subotica, but also in Técső and Nagybecskecskek you can hear a Hungarian word on the street. Many of the jewels of our national cultural memory are now found in the sporadic. Neither the thousand - year - old church of Gyulafehérvár, nor the great prince, II. The ashes of Ferenc Rákóczi and the castle of Huszti, sung by Kölcsey, are no longer the majority of us Hungarians. But we're still here. Even if there are few, even fewer, but there are still. That is why we, Jobbikos, have considered it particularly important to create a specific sporadic strategy already in our 2010 election programme, so that we can provide appropriate responses to the specific situation of these communities in different regions as well. It hurts that it hasn't become anything since then. Although we have just been pleased to hear that, according to Mr Zsolt Németh, it is important to draw up such a strategy. But it is already 2015, and there has not even been any joint reflection, dialogue, or cooperation on how we can support these communities according to emerging needs, on the basis of a programmed and cross-governmental consensus on national policy. The Hungarian Permanent Conference and the Forum of Hungarian Representatives in the Carpathian Basin have also formulated the need to declare 15 November, the day and anniversary of the birth and death of our Prince Gábor Bethlen as the day of the Hungarian sporadic. I myself, at last week's meeting of the Committee on National Inclusion, made the suggestion that we should try to present a joint five-party representative on this occasion, or to adopt at least one proposal drafted by consensus in the Committee on National Inclusion. The Fidesz chairman of the committee, Mr Panczél, then assured me of his agreement and support in principle, which is why I was surprised that the proposal was tabled that day, that is, last Monday afternoon, not surprisingly, as an independent motion by four pro-government Members. The matter for which we are now speaking is, of course, noble and absolutely to be supported, but the wording of the proposal does not show any coherence with proposals with similar themes previously adopted. Not to mention incomplete and inaccurate, and its reasoning is contradictory. It's like being written with an unimaginable intern who looked into the subject for up to 15 minutes of Google drinking. This proposal has been drawn up by someone, my fellow Members, so that it can be forced through Parliament as soon as possible so that there is no chance that some kind of consensus and common thinking can be launched. Make sure someone else doesn't accidentally share this noble cause with you. Only the Fidesz! - We know the password. And we right-handed people always say, "Only the nation!" It was sad to hear how pathetic alibi was forced at yesterday's committee meeting, our fellow Member Panczél, who was trying to explain the situation he probably thought was embarrassing, that this proposal had to be submitted so quickly so that it could be adopted by 15 November. Given the functioning of the Fidesz law factory that could create a new ministry in a week, that's a fake reason. The establishment of a preliminary consensus, therefore, of a joint proposal, which was also intended by the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin, would have been a matter of will, which is clearly lacking again on your part. They continue to do the same, my fellow pro-government Members, what they have done in the last five years: national policy is being derailed into party politics. Because it is clear from the proposal before us that although it will soon become a parliamentary decision, behind it there will not be any content, no real, concrete government intention. [[15.30]] It's just empty words. Of course, at least it will be possible to check with him a case on which your government has shown itself contradictoryly on several occasions over the last five years. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, In the debate on the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which has already been banished to committee level, so as not to be able to talk about this issue too much at the plenary session of Parliament, I will also provide specific sets of data. I would just like to point out that there is a strong contradiction between the intention expressed in the proposal for a decision and the government's political attitude towards sporadic communities. Especially in Transylvania, but unfortunately in other countries, it has been very common in the last five years that, in addition to the support of some sporadic schools or school bus services, institutions, organisations and a significant part of the programmes in the sporadic areas could not receive only minimal or any Hungarian state resources from the Bethlen Gábor Fund. They were on the outskirts simply because they weren't drawn to some foreign Fidesz branch party, such as the Transylvanian sporadics, where most of the settlements and NGOs were related to the DAHR, and Fidesz was still at war with the alliance, and he built the recently badly abandoned Hungarian People's Party of Transylvania on a ventilator. Therefore, not only is the way in which this important proposal is presented unacceptable to us, but also the fact that the government has not agreed with the other political parties, but not even with the sporadic organisations on this matter, nor has it considered asking their opinion on such a question concerning them. But they are in the field, they really know the elements that are needed in such a proposal. It is an outrage to us that the government wants to say the best on this symbolic but practical issue again about Budapest and only about Budapest, and again with strength and strength. It is painfully lacking in the proposal for a sporadic public discourse, in particular the inclusion of public education. The importance of the latter lies in the fact that it would raise sensitivity to the Hungarian communities, which are perhaps one of the most difficult, at the most ingenious and elusive age. For both purposes, the National Assembly could support, for example, the organisation of conferences in Hungarian and foreign languages, scientific and educational presentations, the compilation and dissemination of educational materials and audiovisual products as widely as possible, in order to quote literally the text of similar Fidesz proposals. I also lack the appreciation, some recognition of those who do outstanding work for sporadic communities. On the day of the Hungarian sporadic, all those who contributed significantly to the preservation of the sporadic Hungarians with their work, performance or service could receive some awards and awards. And if we are already treating these communities separately, it would be worthwhile to separate a specific framework supporting a sporadic within the Bethlen Gábor Fund, thus expressing the Hungarian government's responsibility for these communities. It is also incomprehensible how the proposal for a decision may impose a call for celebration. Is this some kind of typo, or is it just some unfortunate turn of events in Zsolt Németh to celebrate our mere existence, our survival, that we are not completely lost yet? There is absolutely nothing to celebrate about our nation's catastrophic XX. At present, after the first century, the vegetation is torn apart, while it tends to decrease and die everywhere, both in Hungary and in the Carpathian Basin. We strongly refuse to celebrate whatever the Hungarian word is, on the sad downfall of the Hungarian idea, on the unstoppable disappearance of our built and cultural heritage, and on the dire shrinkage of the territories which our nation inhabits. It would be nice if the Fidesz got out of this circle of thought. You've caused quite a lot of indignation and deep wounds by making a bloated celebration of one of our nation's greatest tragedies, Trianon's anniversary. Among other things, there are serious concerns that the President of the National Strategy Research Institute, which operates in the direct subjection of the Prime Minister's Office, has recently talked about the elimination of the sporadic. According to the strategy considered as pearl fishing only in professional bersers, those who still feel Hungarian and wish to remain Hungarian should be saved from sporadic areas to blocks, where their survival would be ensured. So it would be good to see clearly that the government now finally wants to preserve or relocate the sporadic, perhaps both at the same time. Of course, the question of pearl fishing is a legitimate point, and we are very pleased that, at the meeting of the Committee on National Inclusion yesterday, President Panczél showed openness on the possibility of discussing this issue within the sporadic theme, and interested parties could be heard and a joint resolution could be drawn up. Because this is where the true and otherwise desirable national political consensus can begin. National policy, the foundations of which, despite democratic changes in government, can remain unchanged because they are not only a single party, but all political forces that bear responsibility and sensitivity to the issue are in agreement with them. A national policy where one Hungarian organization and community does not have to be terrified of embarrassing it after the change of government, and the other one cuts an inch in order to finally get revenge for four or more narrow years after the turn. However, the government nation policy that has been followed so far has far not been like this. In the last five years, there has never been any discussion or discussion on any subject. Fidesz even rejected the better proposal to discuss the necessary steps and measures for the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, which were threatened by war, on a pan-European round table. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We, Jobbikos, want a national policy that is permanent, because it will survive us and ensure the survival of Hungarians. A national policy where no one has to be afraid, one in which everyone can gain support solely on merit and not on the basis of political buddies or even political serbilism to serve the local long-term survival and growth of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, block and sporadic. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-77	Thank you very much. Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP, is coming. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The May Más treats the help of Hungarians living in sporadics as an extremely important issue, so we will also support the presentation on the day of the Hungarian sporadic. At the same time, it is important to draw the attention of the national government parties to the fact that this will not be worth much if it remains a mere symbolic message. The Hungarian State must also show in action, it is committed to helping the sporadic in education and in the use of the Hungarian language. It certainly does not help people living in sporadics if relations with neighbouring countries get worse, as we have seen in recent times. So far, the policy has focused on community expectations, and the LMP also proposes to take into account the individual's social conditions. In other words, it is necessary to help them to thrive as Hungarians. To this end, persons living outside the border with Hungarian identity should be given equal opportunities in a minority situation in order to achieve their social mobility career, to fulfil and to experience their cultural identity, and to participate in regional and local modernisation processes with their own life. The above existing social equality can be reduced by creating an institutional framework. This institutional structure must be based on its own national self-organization and be part of the institutionalisation of the state, the cultural networks in the language and international development programmes. The structure of the institutional sub-schemes thus operated can be a channel of socialisation framework and knowledge input catching-up programmes at the same time. So we are not talking about real estate constructions, car purchases or daily allowances, not denying, of course, the need to do so, but running programmes. The measurement of this social development work is not the demography indicator, but the position of the labour market and the internal stability of the given community. A more efficient, transparent and effective tender system should be used to finance this. Let's face it, this is not the case at the moment, especially in terms of transparency, and we can hardly talk about quality assurance at all. [[15.40]] In the sporadic, resources should be used through locals, organised. It is necessary to set up Sunday schools, which are run by locals, to maintain the Hungarian press, after the school training it is also important to start the Hungarian community occupations, guidance aid advice and scholarship programmes. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-06-79	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. A two-minute speech would be possible, but no one wanted to take advantage of it. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. No further comments were received. That concludes the general debate. I'll ask the author if he wants to answer. Congressman Panczél has spoken, please.
u2015-10-06-80	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would also like to thank, instead of and on behalf of my fellow Members, each of the groups who participated in the debate and the fellow Members who followed this debate. Thank you very much for expressing your views on the proposal for a decision in this task of national policy. I hope you will also support it in the final vote. I think that, together with my fellow authors, I can say that, of course, when sensible amendments come in, we will support them. In fact, it was a critical voice, belonging to my fellow Member, István Szávay, who brought together seven-and-a-half months in connection with the three-sentence proposal for a resolution, so it actually affected the whole of national policy in a particular style that is typical of him. This is the style expressed in national politics, which resulted in around 2 percent of voters across the border being able to support Jobbik's national list in 2014. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: How weak! That was a serious professional argument. Árpád János Potápi: It really is!]] Regarding the suggestion that sporadic or diaspora, this day is clearly about the sporadic Hungarians of the divided parts of the Carpathian Basin. I also said at yesterday's committee meeting, and what Zsolt Németh said here today, as his rapporteur, about the Pearl Fisher programme, is that unfortunately there is no meaningful debate there. Thus, in relation to Jenő Szász's person, some clearly reject this programme, but the sensible debate did not arise in this case. I think that this should also be the case in the future, to examine whether this programme has a future or whether it really needs to be rejected, but once again, today the sensible debate on this programme is missing. A celebration or a memorial? Indeed, from the point of view of a shrinking Hungarianness, we cannot even think that this is a holiday, but we also expect appropriate expressions here. It's not a good word for a memorial, either. I hope it's not like we're gonna remember the sporadics, because that's gonna mean they're gone. This day is also born to draw attention to the sporadics and their survival. I think that at the Bethlen Gábor Fund the sporadic should be covered in a separate line, and that there will be room for discussion of the upcoming draft budget to be included in the budget. At the same time, I think that the issue of sporadic and sporadic strategy, which has been discussed here, will be facilitated by this very day, as this day will provide a special opportunity for conferences to deal with sporadic issues and indeed a sporadic strategy in the future, in which the Hungarian Parliament and the National Assembly Committee of the Hungarian Parliament will obviously have a place. Thank you very much once again for taking part in this debate, and I would ask you to support the proposal for a resolution in as many ways as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-06-81	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 1997 CLIV on health will follow. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/6398. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-82	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Hungary, but we can safely say that one of Europe's biggest challenges is the immigration problem. This year, more than 300,000 illegal immigrants have already arrived in Hungary through the green border. This requires taking measures that allow a complex, multi-faceted solution to the problem. Therefore, in order to take the appropriate measures, the tasks and rules in the health field had to be reviewed and, if necessary, now amended. Hungary's public health and epidemiological situation is stable at present, but we cannot ignore the clearly increasing epidemiological risk of migratory pressure. This epidemiological risk consists of several factors. We don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know the diseases of migrants coming to our country, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know what kind of disease situation we're in. According to the legislation currently in force, the chief district officer responsible for the place of residence of applicants for refugee status shall decide which medical examinations are necessary according to the epidemiological situation and shall order them to be carried out by an individual decision. The problem is that the willingness of immigrants to be screened is extremely low. According to the latest data, less than 5 percent of those who are subject to screening are subject to screening. The Hungarian health system has provided for migrants in many cases in recent weeks and months. However, since the majority of immigrants do not participate in the prescribed screenings, we know very little about their condition. According to the National Chief Medical Officer's Office, less than 1400 people who have applied for refugee status this year and 230 people who have applied for a total of 230 refugee status in September have participated in screening tests in relation to statutory diseases. This poses a risk even if 95 percent of migrants are not suffering from any of the diseases examined, with a total positive result of 5 percent. It is necessary to establish a protection procedure that provides security to the Hungarian population against a wide range of epidemics and threats. This is clearly also in the interest of immigrants. This wider security system is addressed by CLIV on health. T/6398. Bill No. 1. The bill outlines the tasks and responsibilities of the health sector in addressing this situation, i.e. the rules for dealing with the health crisis, which ensure the protection of our country's public health and epidemiological protection. The aim of the proposal is to create a legal condition for the national chief officer to be required to carry out screening tests for persons seeking recognition in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration or a health crisis under the Health Act. The possibility of imposing mandatory screening tests will allow a much higher rate of screening of immigrants. In order to ensure that screening tests are carried out as high as possible, recognising those suffering from an infectious disease, the required screening should be carried out at a place designated by the asylum authority. The bill also provides for a case where the applicant for recognition lodges his application in a transit zone in accordance with the State Border Act. In this case, the screening test shall be carried out here. There are persons seeking recognition who require special treatment, including unaccompanied minors and pregnant persons. [[15.50]] In their case, the screening test shall be carried out outside order and before any other person applying for recognition, in order to ensure their protection in good time. An important rule for dealing with the health crisis under the Health Act is the application of the provisions on the health crisis when imposing a crisis caused by mass immigration. A health crisis occurs where, for any reason, there is a situation where local health capacity is not sufficient to meet supply needs. Special rules can then be introduced, such as referrals, out-of-the-date working arrangements or changes to supply areas, and simpler procedures for the purchase and replacement of devices, medicines. In times of crisis, the scope of health institutions that can be involved in the resolution of the crisis is broadened and it is therefore necessary to provide for additional additional costs that may arise in addition to the amount covered by health insurance. The amendment also provides for the possibility of police surveillance of healthcare facilities. Dear House, The current immigration situation is a very serious problem, which must also be addressed in terms of health. Hungary has already spent more than HUF 200 million on health care related to immigrants through the National Health Insurance Fund, the Rescue Service and the Immigration and Nationality Office. Hungary has done more than 27 thousand screening tests so far. Our proposal aims to ensure that, in times of crisis, healthcare bodies have the right opportunity and the right power to take measures to make the problem more controllable and thus to resolve it more quickly. I therefore ask that you support the bill tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-83	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Bene Ildikó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2015-10-06-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As the Secretary of State has already said in his exposé, the migratory pressure on our country requires that amendments be made to the tasks assigned to the health sector in the health law, which are able to deal with the situation in a complex, broad and appropriate way. We must say that there is a serious epidemiological risk due to increased migration, but we must also say that the authorities are handling the situation in line with the profession, and today the public health and epidemiological situation in Hungary is stable despite the difficulties of recent months. Our country has a complex plan to address the health crisis, which includes an exact timetable for the control of epidemics and defines the role of all actors in the sector. The above amendment ensures that all provisions which are able to maintain the current level of health safety can be implemented flexibly, in accordance with the particular situation and without delay. It is also possible to amend legislation to require the national chief officer to carry out screening tests in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration or a health crisis as defined by the Health Act. Today, in Hungary, the 2007 asylum legislation has a government decree, which regulates the medical examination of asylum seekers and sets out a series of screening tests to be carried out or carried out in these cases. However, we need to create the opportunity for these screening tests to take place as much as possible, since, as the Secretary of State has said, at the moment about 5 percent of those subject to screening appear in the screening tests. It is therefore very important that these screening tests be carried out as widely as possible, eliminating people suffering from infectious diseases, and that the required screening tests be carried out at the place designated by the asylum authority. Also, it is very important that if the person applying for recognition submits his application in a transit zone under the State Border Act, the screening tests should also be carried out here. What kind of epidemiological measures are needed should be carried out in the same way as in any case, which may have already been the case in the past, regulated by the authorities or the profession. The amendment clarifies that, in addition to the amount covered by health insurance, costs will be reimbursed from the central budget to all stakeholders involved in the resolution of the health crisis. In the event of a health crisis, the public health reserve managed by the Health Stock Management Institute has the amount of medicine or medical devices that is another pillar of this safe provision of tasks. The fact that all healthcare providers can be involved in a health crisis can ensure a more uniform distribution of burdens, a more efficient and flexible allocation of tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill we are discussing is small in scope, but it defines very serious tasks in terms of its importance. The supply of a large number of migrants to our country, ensuring appropriate hygiene conditions, taking preventive measures is a guarantee that we will avoid the re-occurrence of infectious diseases that have not been known for years in Hungary, the serious epidemiological situation, so that we can preserve the health safety of Hungarian citizens. In view of all this, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the legislative amendment before us. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-85	Thank you very much. Mr. István Tukacs, head speaker of the MSZP, will follow. Here.
u2015-10-06-86	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Filters and mandatory screenings can be done in all communities, and it is justified. We're done at home because we know that certain ages, geographical locations contain risks. In the case of migrants - on which I would say, however, that in the case of refugees passing through our country these days - the situation is what you said: we do not know the risks. It is therefore appropriate to introduce screening and mandatory screening. We start from this basis when we express our opinion. However, I would like to say, Mr Secretary of State, that the MSZP already initiated in June that these screenings should be carried out. At that time, however, there was some confusion in government power, because your Secretary of State claimed that it was not mandatory to create new legislation and that these screenings could be carried out. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me give you two figures: 66 788 asylum seekers were registered by the end of June, while 737 cases were screened. I ask you, Mr. Secretary, what was the situation when this happened? I could also say that I wish you a good morning to wake up, that we have a bill on our table that requires mandatory screening. The fact that your Secretary of State said that you didn't need a special bill for this should now be a completely irrelevant circumstance, let's discuss it among ourselves. However, the fact that 66,000 people registered already in June, and you were unable to get the vast majority of them to screening, only 737 people, is a serious government error. So what I'm saying about this bill is that we support it, but what you did is wrong. During the period when we said that legislation would give us sufficient opportunity to apply, you said that this was not the case and that something would happen later. We support this proposal, but this is a serious problem. And then, when your Home Secretary recently admitted that tens of thousands of people had traveled across the country without registration - for some reason they hadn't spoken about it - that's even more serious. [[16.00]] So now that we have this bill before us, Mr State Secretary and honourable Members, then the question is rightfully what has happened so far, why this problem has not been such a serious problem, and why have not taken action not only to scare me, but also to take action in real terms. I believe that this is justified and not groundless. It is not without foundation, because our June initiative has been largely taken on by you and said that something will happen. Well, this thing is in front of us in the form of a law. We claim that, during that period, they could have taken action on the basis of the provisions of a certain law called the Asylum Law, but they said that we would wait until October and put down this proposal, which will shift practically existing passages from health emergencies. Mr State Secretary, if we remain strictly on the subject, we should just say that we support it and that we want to see the circumstances surrounding this legislation, because I would like to add a few footnotes to what has been said so far. Footnote 1. What about the one who's not registered? What's happening to him? What about the one who's registered, but, let's say, he's going to jail on the basis of the legislation you've passed, in a community, where, let's say, the epidemiological risks are a little bigger than traveling through Hungary in a railway car or a bus? [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Footnote 2. What's the consequence? So what resources can you mobilize to accomplish this huge task? What is the consequence of this law? After all, we should also have talked about whether there will be enough force to carry out these works, the screenings, in Hungarian, in the case of shy health care providers and other workers. I would have liked to have heard about the measures that will be taken in this particular case, because if you think that this legislation is sufficient, you are wrong, because the specific regulations on this have already existed in our country, but not in the case of refugees, but in the case of epidemiological situations. The specialty of this is that if there is an epidemic threat in our country, those people will live and stay there, and these people will go. What happens if someone is found to be contagious and carries the risks of an epidemic as an individual or even as an incoming community? Footnote 3. I would ask once again what is the situation with the unregistered, Mr Secretary of State, what is the situation with those who, for some reason I did not understand, the Minister of the Interior did not think that it was necessary to register. And finally, trusting that the special situation will not be announced, in Hungarian, the legislation before us, which will only enter into force in a special situation and after an announcement, will not be, I trust that there will be no such epidemiological risks, but I must ask you, however, whether, during the drafting of this legislation, you have thought about what the situation is with those who carry, not the possibility of an epidemic, but are simply sick in the case of refugees arriving and transiting or transiting to our country. Finally, after hearing from the government side many times about the bill, who were happy to gather data, and of which you were a continuation in your exposé, I would like to ask when the data of the 66,000 people who went to June and the data of the 737 filtered people will be heard. When does the data on how many people have been found to be epidemiologically risky so far, what have they done to him? I have no desire, by the way, to say about what risks a village in Borsod County carries in this regard and what these data are in Hungarian screening. I've been talking specifically about the bill before us. However, in the light of today's comments, especially those before the agenda, I must say one more thing. Secretary of State, especially you and others here at the beginning of the day are very happy to talk about how to put refugees in a certain context, especially who supports them and for what reasons and so on. Such a debate can be held if it is of quality. Maybe because why not, because I agree with those on your benches who have just said today that everything can be debated. Maybe if it's of quality. But, Mr Secretary of State, I will not stand by to say on the item on the agenda, which you have said today in this matter, it was not an opportunity for a high-quality debate, but it was simply political idiotism, and, unfortunately, very, very unfortunately, the contempt of those who could be honored by giving people, as far as possible, a somewhat higher level of debate and knowledge rather than such completely infantile comments and conversations. With this I just wanted, and I trust that the special status will not be announced, I trust that there will be enough power and there will be enough people to deal with mandatory screenings then, I trust that the stable epidemiological situation will remain and will not become more risky, and finally I trust that the paper before us did not serve as another propaganda point, but as an opportunity for real action. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Imre Horváth applauds.]]
u2015-10-06-87	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-10-06-88	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's objective is to ensure the protection of our country's public health, epidemiological protection. In order to protect the Hungarian population, it is important that migrants arriving in Hungary receive the necessary health care. This can also protect our own citizens from contact with infectious people. In order to ensure that the current public health and epidemiological situation remains sustainable and that the supply of a large number of migrants arriving in the country can be resolved, and to prevent the emergence of a serious epidemiological situation and to maintain the current level of health security for Hungarian citizens, a number of important measures are needed. One of them appears in the form of the proposed legislation, which aims to define the tasks and responsibilities of the health sector in dealing with this complex situation, i.e. the rules for dealing with the health crisis, which ensure the protection of Hungary's public health and epidemiological protection. The bill establishes the legal condition for the national chief of staff to be able to order compulsory screening tests for the person seeking recognition in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration or a statutory health crisis. In order to ensure that screening tests are carried out as high as possible, thus filtering out people suffering from an infectious disease, the required screening shall be carried out at the place designated by the asylum authority. If the person applying for recognition lodges his application in a transit zone under the State Border Act, the screening test shall be carried out here. In the case of a person seeking recognition requiring special treatment under the Asylum Act, the screening test shall be carried out in advance of another person seeking recognition in order to ensure their protection. The results of the screening shall be communicated to the asylum authority by the district or metropolitan district office acting in the public health function of the metropolitan and county government offices. Dear Parliament, In the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration through the amendment, health crisis rules apply, thereby enabling the health sector to respond effectively, ensuring the public health and epidemiological safety of our country. [[16.10]] The amendment clarifies that all those involved in the eradication of the health crisis will be reimbursed for the additional costs incurred by the central budget in addition to the amount covered by health insurance. The amendments can be considered to be technical, since the reimbursement system remains unchanged, but the type of service providers that can be involved in the resolution of the health crisis will be extended in order to address the situation. Dear Parliament, The amendment also makes it possible not only to operate a medical institution, but also to operate any type of healthcare provider during a health crisis. This will allow for an effective and more flexible response. Ladies and gentlemen, I also support this proposal as an individual Member, as tens of thousands of illegal migrants have crossed over the last few weeks in the two municipalities of my constituency, Barcson and Zakány, and I believe that the adoption of this law will also strengthen the sense of security of the local population. To sum up, the aim of the bill is to control the situation from a public health point of view, to ensure that a sound framework is in place to deal with the crisis caused by illegal migration, professionally and legally. Finally, the purpose of the bill is to protect us, to prevent any possible negative process. The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill on this basis. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-89	I now give the floor to László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-10-06-90	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to speak correctly about the health aspects of immigration and to put it into the right judgment, it is essential to set up an inventory of what we know about immigration, health in relation to illegal immigration and the challenges of health, health systems, care systems and the country. It is therefore necessary to recognise and recognise the circumstances that affect the effectiveness of health in this area, i.e. to see what makes or does not make the current system effective and how it can influence the functioning of health in a specific regulatory environment or through the establishment of public administration. This must be done by taking into account and fundamentally recognising the underlying arguments that arise from the present situation, and these should be taken into account. It is certainly part of this, which has already been formulated here many times today, unfortunately the willingness of the masses of illegal immigrants to not want it, do not want it, and do not intend to comply with, let's say, a minimum humane obligation, so they do not cooperate with the authorities in any way, as they have already mentioned in several media statements, with a very low degree of cooperation among them, so it is much more difficult to filter these patients or these people, to understand them and to treat them if necessary. But it is also very important to see where such screenings can be done, what legal possibilities and what reality there are where they end or where they are. As is known and already mentioned, these were typically carried out in the southern border sections, transit zones, Röszkén and Tompán, where on the one hand infectious patients were screened and health complaints which were complained of and which were claimed by illegal immigrants. The design of these premises is very interesting. It is clear that screening can be done and can be properly approached when talking about a closed location, because it is not possible to do screening in the case of immigrants who have been or have gathered together in a field alone, neither the technical possibility nor the possibility of human resources in these cases, so it is absolutely necessary to have a closed space to be feasible. His emblematic example, and how important the enclosed space is and how important it is to have a good view of the problem, is the unfortunate accident on the M5, in which illegal immigrants also suffered an accident with a smuggler, and in Kecskemét the treating doctor alone has already practiced keeping them in a confined, isolated place until then, and presuming, by the way, their infectiveness to patients treated there was kept these illegal immigrants in a separate place, some of whom could not be identified by their identity, origin, medical history or current health status. If you like, he's already carried out a certain quarantine on his own. What must be taken into account is the evolution of percentages. We've already talked about this. According to the National Chief Medical Office, 95 percent of the filtered persons did not suffer from disease, but 95 percent of the screened people also passed away without otherwise being informed of the results of the screening, or in any way they could have been contacted by the authority, i.e. there were 5 percent who were actually infected, but 95 percent of the 5 percent - because they shared the fate of the others, 95 percent - also passed away. These are January and September data this year. So they left the country without any other measures being taken in relation to them. But let's also look at the numbers that the National Chief Medical Office talked about, and these are, I'm telling you, only the number of people applying for refugee status, because those people, you might say, flooded the country uncontrolled and basically even their registration was inadequate or not at all - although the government's communication here is a little conflicting. We don't know their numbers, obviously they haven't been screened. This year it seems that 1,400 people have been involved in screening so far. In September a total of 230 people applying for refugee status participated in screening tests, and the reason why it is important to say this number and what symptoms they had is because, on a large average, when we look at the ethnicity and origin and disease patterns of asylum status, we can see that, by the way, they cover the ethnic, ethnic and national distribution of illegal immigrants, so we can safely say that there will be similar diseases among them. Thus, infectious hepatitis, hepatitis B and C, as well as syphilis, were the most common diseases, but there were other diseases: scabies and lice. In September, 1017 and 843 cases were reported by the National Chief Medical Office. So the numbers show that even in such a low number, where it was filtered, we have encountered serious diseases and significant data in addition to such a low number of filters. So, for the most part, if we look at evidence-based screening results and project this on a larger population that has reached Hungary, and we are talking about over 310 thousand crossings in Hungary, then we can see that our country was besieged by 312 thousand people and had to have at least similar numbers and similar diseases. So this is the burden on the health care system itself, if all the people are in his sight. And yet, in response to my written question, Parliamentary Secretary Rétvári, there were 27 thousand people who came to the doctor. Of course, we need to separate this from the screening line, because we are not talking about screening tests, but we are looking at all the complaints, any illness and other medical complaints to the doctor. This seems to have been the case with 27,000 doctors, which means that 27,000 medical examinations were carried out, which was a medical meeting of 27,000 people who did not pay contributions, and in their interaction with the health system, these were the cost consequences for health care. Then it is worth doing a cesure here in that we expect the Secretary of State to answer the cost of the screening tests to be carried out, the amount of budgetary resources that the State can allocate to the extent that if tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people are to be screened here, how many tests, what costs and where will there be sufficient human resources to carry out the inspections, and which organisations will have it separately. It was also referred to that the Immigration and Nationality Office, the National Ambulance Service, the National Health Insurance Fund has recently charged or accounted for more than HUF 200 million in health care, and of course this is not again about screening and screening, but about all the health burdens that immigration causes Hungary. [[16.20]] So, if we see it right, in this case, this figure of 200 million may increase in abundance if these screening tests are to be carried out in accordance with this legislation. It is also worth knowing what symptoms there are and what the country has to account for, what the legislators have to account for when we talk about this subject. The most common are upper respiratory diseases, digestive symptoms, but there have been cases of rotavirus infection, pneumonia, and chickenpox. The latest phenomena are rubella epidemics in Germany due to illegal immigrants. Hungary can expect similar things, by the way. So protection against them and, by the way, screening is an important task, of course, to look at the burden on our supply system. In fact, a very extreme position was also seen at the time, by Zsuzsanna Jakab, the regional director of the United Nations World Health Organisation in Europe. He himself said that it is not the immigrants who are putting European society at risk, but we Europeans are putting immigrants at risk. So you can see how controversial the size of the problem is, for example, from a luxury office in Denmark, where the principal's office is, by the way. But it's a serious problem. By the way, we suggested that you come to Röszke and Ásotthalom, leaving your luxury office, and see if the screening works, because otherwise it didn't work, we can see that you were withdrawn from it. We suggested that you come and see what kind of diseases you have to see for yourself, and not just from Denmark to speculate about what kind of diseases you have. And we also said that you could have visited not only Röszke's but also the Eastern railway station, which, I think, was a very serious epidemiological threat to everyone, but also a very serious epidemiological emergency. After all, it was only from the smells, only from the waste placed, or from the order prevailing there that the system was not working very well. But we also need to look at the legal environment, what gives rise to epidemiological measures. In relation to the epidemic, there are two A4 pages of legislation, laws and other regulations, which, overall, means the harmonisation of 24 laws, if we are talking about epidemiology and epidemiological measures, then we need to review and harmonise these 24 laws at the same time, and on this basis we can see that the bill, although it says that it reaches into it in substance and provides for a step forward, is, in essence, not in harmony with the epidemiological legislation. The bill, by the way, complements the new health law and provides it with a new institution that the Secretary of State has already said in his exposé, which would provide a solution to the crisis caused by mass immigration. In terms of personal scope, it focuses on persons who apply for recognition under the Asylum Act, the location of the screenings - and this is mentioned as very important - makes it possible in a place designated by the asylum authority, which is still a bit fluid as to what these designated places will be. But he also talks about the transit zone, so we have the right to assume that, by the way, he's dreaming of a transit zone screening, or the government is trying to do that. What is more interesting, however, and may be one of the cornerstones of the screening process, and may be a single source of error, is the certificate issued to carry out the screening itself. We need to see that, by doing a screening alone, they are costing the state a certificate of this, and then this will be one of the conditions for entering Hungary from the transit zone. This in itself does nothing but impose an administrative burden on the Hungarian State, imposing a cost on the Hungarian State, but it cannot guarantee epidemiological security, because that person goes on or can go on with the person, only with the certificate obtained, that he had been screened, without otherwise knowing his results. So it would be more worthwhile to state in a crystal clear way that the possibility of moving forward, that is to say, to enter Hungary or to pass through Hungary, should be conditional not only on certification of the screening, but also on the results of the screening, as we have seen, since 95 percent of those attending the screening were not aware and did not wait for it, nor did they know the result of its screening. There is therefore a need to do something about this, in this connection it will be necessary to amend the law, or the amendments will be necessary. Then, as a criticism, the legislation does not prevent the movement of the patient or the potential source of infection, nor does it place any physical barrier that could prevent him from contacting or entering a place where there is a risk of infection. It may not give time for proper examination, but the proposal itself places less emphasis on the result. The Movement for Jobbik Hungary also said in the spring debate, and then I saw a lot of people's faces surprised by the epidemics that were threatening Hungary. This has, by the way, become a reality. Therefore, we have tabled a proposal for a decision, much ahead of the government, in which we have asked for amendments to several laws, including the amendment of the health law, in which we wanted to reflect not to underestimate the epidemiological situation, to limit free movement in some way, to restrict it in accordance with European Union legislation or Hungarian legislation, to ensure that it is protected from potential infections in Hungary. Its aim was to obtain an organised and effective control of our borders and to prevent these people from crossing the country, otherwise or in an infectious state. It is absolutely necessary to emphasise, and what is worth highlighting in the reply of the Secretary of State, that, although this has been called a wider security system, compared to this, it is indeed a step forward compared to nothing, not a step forward in relation to Jobbik's vision. However, it needs to be clarified what costs it will have, so what burdens it will have on society, what number of screenings we are talking about, what costs we are talking about, how much it will cost taxpayers, and how much the government might also say, besides the current legislative amendment, what other, otherwise epidemiological measures it was thinking and what the reconciliation aspects it took into account were, because it seems very much that at present it is not an obstacle to the spread of infections, not a solution, or only a partial solution. We therefore need much more decisive action from the government. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-91	I give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-10-06-92	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, For journalistic interest, the Ministry of Human Resources has published that a total of 9705 screening studies have been carried out in 2015 among migrants arriving in our country. A positive result for some infection was born 262 times, including cases of salmonella. There have been 11 cases of HIV virus, 72 cases of hepatitis B, 18 cases of hepatitis C, 33 cases of syphilis, no cases of tuberculosis have been found. I would ask Mr Secretary of State to explain in the debate, if I may ask that this ratio, which, according to the Ministry of Human Resources, is 2.69 per cent, the emerging 5 per cent is close to double this... - we always pay attention to this 5 per cent, we really know what this, please, justifies the difference. Joke aside, these numbers are quite low to talk about any crisis. Obviously, we'd get a higher incidence, a new occurrence, if we looked at every border crossing. If you consider that someone who has an active infection that causes them to have symptoms, there is a very good chance that they're going to get a doctor and that they're going to record their illness. Even if we were to filter every border crossing, it's unlikely that we'd find out that there's something to be afraid of. We wouldn't identify a lot more people with symptoms. It's a lurking disease, so carriers might occur in larger numbers. These may even pose a risk depending on the disease. At the same time, it must be recognised that the only appropriate way to verify the state of health of all border crossings is to undergo an examination before entering the country. Based on the experience gained so far, this is not necessarily necessary, but could only be considered as part of a higher level of humane asylum reception in these circumstances. The proper reception of refugees is the responsibility of the State. The government must make every effort to ensure that the arrivals stay in Hungary under appropriate hygiene conditions. This is also important to protect Hungarian citizens, in addition to refugees, from diseases and infections that may increase during the journey. So far, the Hungarian government has not performed well at all. Experience has shown that the government is unwilling to do so and regularly creates conditions that can enhance the risk and create a real epidemic. [[16.30]] Train crowding, public stationing for days and the like, in these cases there were so many sanitary infrastructure, which is not enough for a medium-scale music festival. In addition to the deliberate alarm of billions thrown out for poster campaigns, the Hungarian population, the government deliberately failed to provide adequate supplies for refugees. This needs to be changed immediately, reception facilities must have adequate capacity, appropriate hygiene and infrastructure, and even a sufficient number of healthcare professionals should be able to carry out screening, and obviously the tools necessary for this. It is also extremely important to make refugees understand what will happen to them, and also that it is in their interest. Therefore, we need interpreters, we need to establish a proper state of trust. A completely ordinary example is that no one likes to see a doctor, know the fear of a dentist or a needle stick; if this is combined with no information about what is going to happen, then any fear can be strengthened. It is not a cliché to think that in healing, smooth communication is as important as medicine. The summer's over, the government's inaction so far, seems to have escaped without serious consequences, but the coming autumn and winter do not wait much for you, so it is especially important to ensure the right conditions, as the refugee's organization will be weaker, and there is a greater chance of spreading completely ordinary and serious health-damaging infections. And once again, this will not only affect refugees, but Hungarian citizens may also be at increased risk. The question is whether the state is capable of ensuring a heated and well-hygienic transit zone, if not, then assistance should be sought from EU countries, financial, in-kind and professional assistance. We can see that the Hungarian state is unable or unable to provide food for its own police officers and soldiers, so that they will be able to maintain a zone in which they will provide the right conditions for the period during which the refugees will wait for the screening to be carried out. At present, the number of people infected with hepatitis is not small among the Hungarian population, but there is a significant chance among immigrants that it will occur at a higher rate than among the population of the country, since both the countries of origin and transit countries are such that access to healthy drinking water is limited and the level of sewerage and other factors are low. Therefore, the number of hepatitis known within the population in all these countries is high. If we look at Syria, the situation has improved over the last two decades, which was explained by better infrastructure, but since there has been war for years, the situation may have deteriorated recently. HIV infection is a separate category, it has a different spread; of course, it is a serious disease, but 11 cases out of nearly 10,000 subjects are low incidences, and a new occurrence. If we look at the situation in Hungary, it can be said that almost 200 new cases are found annually in Hungary, unfortunately this is a clearly rising trend, which is not a good sign, with the number of new cases increasing by about 10-15 people per year. The situation is further exacerbated by the fact that the government has made needle exchange programs impossible and is generally silent about the whole problem. It is not a good message that the state will do nothing about the trend, only when refugees can be blamed for it. It is important to mention that under the leadership of Dr. Judit Paller, the National Office of Official Medicine performs correctly even in such a political environment, does not cause panic, always calmly states that there is no danger, but draws attention to the risks. It's important to listen to them. Judit Paller also asked for the content of the proposal in the law, so it can be linked to the National Office of Official Medicine, the aim is to ensure that the refugees who have submitted the application can be placed in the most fair and humane conditions, and that their care is of the highest standard, then it is not technically objectionable, and this would also be eligible. The problem is feasibility, lack of resources and behaviour of the government. We can only hope that the government does not want to use the situation as a selfish domestic political goal and does not want to demonstrate that refugees pose health risks. This is an opportunity to prove that it is not a matter of not providing resources that the government creates a crisis situation or images and situations that are capable of causing the media to fear. And we can only hope that the government does not want to demonstrate that mass immigration is destroying the Hungarian health system. The LMP proposals have been made public weeks ago, in which it is stated that, while the government has been talking about the serious crisis caused by the refugee crisis since January, it has done nothing in the last six months to enable the asylum system to meet the increased burden. This is demonstrated by the fact that the budget of the Immigration and Nationality Office was reduced from HUF 8.9 billion to HUF 8.6 billion in the 2016 budget adopted in summer. According to the LMP, the budget of the VAT should be increased immediately and significantly, so we have tabled amendments to both this year's and next year's budgets, in which we would increase the budget of the institution by three times to some HUF 25 billion. Without a significant increase in the budget of the BÁH, Hungary will not be able to comply with its obligations under international treaties in a humane manner which ensures that human rights are enforced and without disruptions to the Hungarian public. Following an increase in the budget of the HAC, the organisation should be required to provide permanent health care in all refugee camps and to treat migrants with psychiatric and, in particular, post-traumatic stress disorder. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-06-93	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I declare that László Varju, the first independent Member, has withdrawn his intention to speak. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész.
u2015-10-06-94	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Political idiotism," said István Tukacs, Secretary of State, Rétvári, but I see that political idiotism is exactly what the MSZP is doing on this issue. It is worth clarifying, Mr Tukacs, what is the true position of the MSZP on this issue. In June, several politicians of the MSZP said that there was no migration problem, that the whole thing was made up by Fidesz, and now they're asking why we didn't deal with this problem in June, which you don't think existed at the time. When we said that there were health risks, they said that this was just the usual way to make Fidesz hate, and now they're saying that we didn't make it in time. Congressman Toukacs is outraged that we have not filtered all immigrants since June - I repeat once again: you believe that this problem did not exist yet. István Tukacs has just made a statement in his speech on how it is possible that we do not register everyone or register everyone. I suggest, Congressman, that you read what you asked for a few months ago, for example, left-wing politicians said that they should be allowed to continue without registration, should not be registered, not to mention that immigrants refused to register themselves and refused to give fingerprints. Mr President, do you not feel that what you are allowed to say on this subject is a little embarrassing that you were opposed to the confusion that you have spoken recently? I think that there is a presentation here in front of Parliament, we are clearly going forward, otherwise it would be good if health risks could be minimized in Hungary, unfortunately these risks are big, and I think that the country would expect a little more responsible behaviour, not just us, but all citizens [[The president's ringing the bell.]] from all opposition parties on this issue, but above all from you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-95	I now give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs in two minutes.
u2015-10-06-96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Révész, Tamás Harangozó asked the representative of the government about health risks at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 3 July. By doing so, I would just like to confirm the fact - a fact, not a feeling - that the MSZP indicated this at the time and received the answer that the problem was not a problem and that it was resolved. So it's not that what you're saying is exactly the reverse. [[16.40]] László Felkai, Minister of Public Administration of BM, responded to Tamás Harangozó's statement at the TAB meeting, and wrote on 5 August: the Immigration and Nationality Office initiated health screening of asylum seekers at the competent bodies of the ÁNTSZ, but... customers typically left the reception centre before carrying out the tests, but in 737 cases it was successful. Leaving the reception centre, my fellow Member, whose problem and whose responsibility is it? The MSZP? You're not serious, are you? So let's talk about what happened here, and it's been happening ever since. Your Secretary of State thought he couldn't solve this problem. Then do me the honor of asking him to be accounted for, not me. The other, though remaining on the subject, but responding to this speech before a certain agenda and to the reaction of the Secretary of State, does not mean that you are here to mention why I do not stick to the law, and I am talking about it, and the Secretary of State can speak without any possibility of reaction to vegetables - because he has spoken. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-06-97	I will ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to comment in two minutes or in a normal time frame. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Two minutes.]] I'll give you the floor in two minutes.
u2015-10-06-98	Mr President, Dear House, I was indeed preparing for a normal speech, but I must take the opportunity to make a two-minute comment because a debate between the parties, which was very far from professionalism, was opened between former and current governing parties. There is a question of whose responsibility it is that these migrants - not refugees, migrants, which is a much wider category - leave the point they have been assigned. In a footnote, it is already stipulated in the Geneva Convention that the migrant arriving here has a duty to comply with the legislation of the country of arrival. In this case, this has failed several times, since once illegally crossing the border and then leaving the designated point. Whose responsibility is that? It's pretty amazing. When Jobbik was the only one to suggest that only closed hostels and closed institutions should be used in Hungary in order to protect the civilian population, but also to protect many arrivals from crimes between themselves, Fidesz and MSZP jointly called on this proposal [[István Tukacs: Says it! I don't steer!]] Together, they pretended that this was not a real problem. That is why I consider this to be a face toaster, when you mentioned at conferences a year ago that this danger does not exist, these people are not a threat to anyone, and of course they also said that this is a problem created by Fidesz. I should also add that Fidesz-KDNP was also one of those who, in connection with the problems related to the refugee hostel in Debrecen, mentioned repeatedly by my fellow Member Gergely Kulcsár, noted that there was no such problem. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] There's no public safety problem, no health problem. So it's like the conversation between the deaf and the blind at the time suddenly came back from the fog, and you're starting to feel this problem. I can suggest to the MSZP that they clarify in their own ranks why even your sober-thinking voters support the construction of a physical border lock, support strong action for the benefit of Hungarian citizens, and you still scrape the shell of the apple with problems that do not exist. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Very good! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-06-99	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-06-100	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Regarding applicants for asylum, the Secretary of State says that there is an obligation to carry out health screening tests. The point of the matter is that this sentence would have stood up in the previous months. I would like to say that the existing legislation, the existing legislation, would have given the government the opportunity to do so. The Secretary of State knows - but if he doesn't know, I'll help him find out where, how and in what form he could have done all this - it's not good if any of these kinds of questions, which really are a matter of racial importance, are being treated by the government as propaganda. Okay, I know they're already doing propaganda and a lot of things, but these cases aren't worth playing with. It is not worth playing, because if there is a problem, the problem must be resolved, and this solution should be taken as soon as possible. There was a solution months ago. From the point of view of the obligation, it was also the duty of asylum seekers to use the services of the healthcare system in the form of screening or, where necessary, treatment or vaccination. So to claim that there was no possibility, it was not good, Mr. Secretary of State. There were legislation in force, these should or should have been respected, and if they had been complied with, the problems that would have arisen, if they had existed, would most likely not have been created. To be factual, my fellow Member, Tukacs, has also referred to various speeches. The Hungarian Socialist Party also drew attention to this several times in June and July, i.e. the need to carry out screenings. The Secretary of State is talking about the passage of hundreds of thousands of people. Here there are a few thousand people, fewer than ten thousand people, who, to this day - not then, to this day - have been screened. So what I would like to say is that until July 2015, when the registration of the nearly 67 thousand asylum seekers took place, the mysterious number is the 737 that we are looking at, namely, those who have been screened. Do you know how much this is in terms of the affected population? My fellow Member Ikotity has used a balance pair, but I would like to point out that it is just over 1 percent; it is just over 1 percent of those registered. You are talking about 5 percent of immigrants, refugees, migrants showing willingness to be subject to screening. If that's true, if that's true, then you've done the irresponsible thing that only one in five people with intent has been filtered, 737 out of 67,000 people. If you show 5% willingness, you wouldn't even be willing to provide for a 5% screening, let alone do what could have been done for the others. As regards health screening sites, my fellow Member, Luke, said the importance of closed filter sites. I do not recall that there was any opposition from the Hungarian Socialist Party when it came to this. [[Márius Révész: Alas, alas!]] I don't remember any of that. But I would like to add that the other half of our sentence has always been linked to these thoughts that it is not enough to have enclosed spaces. Closed spaces require a health professional background and availability of medicinal products. Not in the way we've been here for the past few months, say, at Eastern Station and anywhere else, where there was no place for these people. [[Márius Révész: They went there illegally!]] there is virtually the civilian sphere or even the health care systems representing... [[Márius Révész: Why do you have to lie?]] You have to press a button, you know, my fellow Member, it works, you have to press a button, and then you can talk. So, the health care system was on the sidelines in this regard, the civil sector was present, or people who had been given adequate human resources in the health care system volunteered to provide certain kinds of health assistance beyond their working hours. When you touch on this issue after months, you should always remember what you have done in the past six months on this issue. Remember what we say about serving Hungarian policemen and soldiers on the border. Not one, not two cases, but countless examples of these people not getting the normal decent care they needed for their work. So, your behavior on this issue is quite controversial. [[16.50]] And I must say that when the secretary of state talks about 300,000 illegal immigrants, he should always compare 5% of the willingness to filter with what they did: 1 percent of these people were filtered. If I want to record this whole story in the same sentence, I have to say that you have carried on irresponsible activities or carried on irresponsiblely. Simply because if there were problems or problems, you did not provide for these problems in the interests of the Hungarian people. Not for others, not for the opposition, not for the civil sector, but for the current government. Indeed, the current government has a responsibility and responsibility. Not only must we turn cases into propaganda, we must not only roll posters in front of people, but we must also play a role in solving problems. You didn't play a role in this problem-solving, you created tension, you tried to create chaos, and then you came out as a solver after the created tension and chaos, who, above all, solves the problem and is the guardian and protector of everyone. No, you are not your guardians and protectors, you have not acted in the interests of the Hungarian people's interests over the past period, I believe, but you have failed to do the task, yes, Mr Secretary of State, you have failed to fulfil the task, or you have failed to fulfil the duty which you could have done in these matters. Of course, you must always pay attention and be careful that there is a constitution, there is a Fundamental Law. You gave birth to her, remember, you know, that's carved in the stone, or I don't know what it's carved into. Passes of the Fundamental Law must be followed and legal action must be taken. Not the way it was played in connection with their activities along the boundaries. So, it would be nice for you to know at least what you're doing on your own with your forced two-thirds struggle, which is now in the past. I would like to say once again and again that whatever you write on the paper and whatever you say, you have a responsibility and a responsibility. Their task and responsibility are also for those people who, as refugees, as migrants, if any, pass through this country and for those Hungarian citizens who live their daily lives here. Perhaps even more cumulative responsibility can be given to you in this regard. One word, as a hundred, I must say that you have failed to fulfil the normal, expected obligation to do your job in a humane manner, in the interest of the Hungarian people, but with the help of migrants and refugees passing through Hungary leaving Hungary. No, you didn't do that, you caused tension, and I'm telling you once again, you tried to create chaos and show yourself as a solver in this story. This is not a glorious activity. Glorious activity is to play their part in what they do when they do what they do for which you are elected and elected. I'm gonna have to give you two more thoughts. One is related to what Márius Révész said. I'm sorry he's not in there anymore, but I'm forced to tell you. One of them is the question of political idiotism. I'm not asking the question of idiocy, I'm simply saying that you should always look at the facts. Look at what we indicated in June, what we said, what we wrote. Look at what our vice-president, Tamás Harangozó, said on 3 July 2015 on the issue of inadequacies in the health care of asylum seekers. Or I suggest you read it - this is not what my fellow Member Tukacs said, but I suggest - the K/5873. Questions 1 and 2, in which we asked questions and thoughts about the government's inactivity in relation to screenings in the first half of 2015, about six hundred people - HIV, hepatitis and other screenings - why it is here when we have already encountered registration numbers of over 60 thousand people. So, what I'd like to say is that the facts always speak for themselves. These are the things that I've been talking about, not the things that would be about someone standing up and saying something about this issue. I seem to be a little off topic right now, but I'm not doing that because I'm talking about a related issue. Look at what the Hungarian-related aspect of this question looks like, the questions specifically related to Hungarian people. I do not know if Mr Secretary of State is used to lung screening - I hope so, because it is very important for us here in the walls of the Hungarian Parliament that the members of the government can do their job in a healthier state - but I would like to tell you that if you want to go to lung screening for the second time in a given year, although you may not be confronted with this thing, but you will have to pay HUF 1700 for the second lung screening in one year. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, in this connection, if we are considering or should be aware of the types of issues in which we are or should be aware of the prevention of problems, then why are we putting in place petty provisions which, by the way, impose an unsolvable task on the multitude of people suffering from a miserable fate. Because I can tell you that it is certainly not a problem for you, and it is very likely for me and Members sitting in the walls of Parliament to pay 1700 forints for the second lung filter in a given year, or I should pay for it, but for the public-employed person who has lost a third of his money since 2010 - because the money he receives today is worth HUF 52,000 forints, which is worth HUF 40,000 forints compared to HUF 60 200 forints - the 1700 forints for that person too. But even for that person at the minimum wage, the 1.3 million people, say, 4 million, who will be scraped together as employed, by way of various speculations, that is to say, the 1.3 million people who earn 68 775 HUF, but even the 2.2 million who have a minimum salary, in Hungarian, the majority who receive money for their work in this country, in their pockets. So, I would like to point out, in addition to what has already been said, and in addition to the health issue, that, if possible, changes to these types of issues should be made as a matter of urgency, in order not only to be screening tests, but also the availability of screening tests should also be given to Hungarian people, and in such a way, in a preventive way, in order to prevent and prevent the contamination of others, so that they do not have to pay separate items of HUF 1700. As a last thought, I would like to return to the original bill: I cannot suggest anything other than that, if you have already failed to fulfil the obligations which you should have fulfilled in relation to immigration, issues concerning refugees, that is to say, to check the registrations, then I would suggest and ask you with great respect that you do not miss all of this in the coming period. Not only 1 percent should be filtered, but they should act as widely as possible to preserve our health and to maintain the safety of people's health. This is what I expect and that is what many Hungarians expect from the Hungarian government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-06-101	I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2015-10-06-102	Mr President, Dear House, Here we are often within the walls of the House preparing for a speech, making notes, and then the speakers in front of us inspire us, and we have to respond to something quite different in a few sentences. Right here in front of me, it came alive in 2004. I remember that the MSZP was then conducting a brutal campaign against our brothers across the border. We can now see the opposite of this in relation to migrants, where, in turn, they act with an unreasonably understanding tone, with such incredibly insane requests and demands to the Hungarian people, which in many cases are incomprehensible. Yes, I support it, Mr Gúr, so that a Hungarian person does not have to pay 1700 forints if he has to go to lung screening for the second time in a year. It's perfectly justified. But if at the same time you demand extra resources with the LMP and other forces, plus doctors, plus nurses, plus medication, full extra care, full coverage - if applicable, at Debrecen, at Debrecen camp, there was a liberal team that protested because the TV room wasn't comfortable enough in the reception center - so if we measure this demand mass, answer me one question: from what and from where? [[17.00]] I get it. I can see the government's policy of absolute inefficiencies in the field of health, but somehow your needs do not stand the test of reality, because in Hungary we should provide more modern care for the Hungarian people, but if you demand unjustified items for 300 thousand and later 600 thousand migrants, this is a tax increase in the long term. Then, if they're responsible, they'll tell us from where, from what source. And it's not gonna be enough to tell you to break down two stadiums, and then the price of that. Real structural reforms must be proposed here. The Jobbik will do that, by the way. We also say that if, in the long term, the Fidesz-KDNP lets this situation escalate and does not act, let's say, in addition to a physical barrier, by grouping decent human resources, the replacement of the flood will mean that such huge masses will arrive within our borders in the long term. Therefore, there will be a continuous health risk with a continuous need for treatment and a continuous need for expenditure. This will cost the Hungarian people very, very much. Obviously, we are talking about billion-dollar items on an annual basis, and this is true even if, where appropriate, the construction of the fence and the border seal is completed. You can see that, in addition to the brutal grouping of police and defence forces, what we have now is to expect the police to serve there, and not in the heart of the country, it is unsustainable in the long term. In the long run, without an independent border guard, this cannot be prevented. And if the flood is pouring on us, people are coming here in bulk, then these health risks will definitely survive. When you're here to answer to the government... and you see, I'm not defending them, because I'm constantly making critical statements, but I have one thing to protect, yes. When you talk about the fact that Hungary has not acted legally, let us say, the forces of the military or police forces, who defended Hungary during the attack in Horgos in Röszke, and protected it, I say that they should not try to legalize an aggression against the Hungarian border that has actually been unprecedented since 1956. So there is a situation where we do expect the safety of Hungary's citizens to be guaranteed and guaranteed in this way. A fundamental decision on screening should be taken. If you want to make screening mandatory for everyone, the results of which you want to keep those involved waiting, I do not say that there are no arguments, but you must clearly indicate where tens of thousands of people are going to be kept permanently. That's one of the issues. It may be possible to put forward arguments and arguments in favour of points (a) and (b). What I would be very interested in on the part of the government is how they intend to prevent in the long term the risks created by the repatriated tens of thousands, or allocated by quota, at first one or two thousand, but we know that this is an open system from above, later on in connection with the everyday life of tens of thousands of people. After all, these people, if they settle in Hungary for a long time with their own particular culture, which is respect for the exception, but it is very far from ours, so if they escalate conditions such as those in the area of the Middle Eastern railway station named by the folk language, then this catastrophic situation is encoded in the system. And then we can say, as the practice doctors who come to our office say, that it is true that the introduction of unknown diseases can be feared. In many cases, neither a practitioner nor a practitioner can know what he meets with, since it is a whole other culture circle, the inhabitants of other continents. That is why we can say that this level of risk exists and is maintained. And yet Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian population, have passed an excellent test of tolerance, we note this, not only in relation to the settlements around the Keleti Railway Station. Think about it, in Germany, otherwise librarianized Germany, future hostels of refugees are regularly set on fire where migrants would later be relocated. As far as I know, arson occurred in two places in Hungary. Once at the refugee shelter in Debrecen, when an armed horde broke out of there and started raging, and in the second case, at Röszke. So the Hungarian people passed very well and well in terms of tolerance. But we must say that a moral question is also raised in Hungary. When Hungarian taxpayers pay for services, they also pay for the relationship of insurance, why, how long and with what ceiling it is possible for Hungarian citizens and Hungarian taxpayers to pay the healthcare, screening and other bills of migrants arriving here. We are at the end of the second wave of migration, a few thousand a day, typically ten thousand recently, then five thousand arriving, but we can say that after the end of the second wave, the much stronger third follows. Many more people from Black Africa, for whom it is obvious that the rate, disease rate and quality depth of the diseases introduced here will be much more extensive. We can therefore say that we should very much draw the line between where, to what extent and to what extent Hungary wants to finance benefits for them. I am very pleased that it has been said that while a Hungarian person actually pays for the second lung screening until a Hungarian person has access to basic examinations in many cases - only through a private doctor, if he can pay for it, or by several months, if he can wait his turn, if he can wait for it, he must draw the line when more than ten thousand people appear at the borders of Hungary, let us say, every day, or when 40-50 thousand people are disturbed. So when such statements and demands are formulated, I believe that a clear line should be drawn as to how long. This is also the question we ask liberals at various conferences and discussions when they say that it is a moral duty to take people in here. Obviously, Jobbik strongly rejects this, but I often wonder where the top of their moral sense of duty is. When 400 or 600 thousand people show up in Hungary, otherwise in a less exploitable way on the labour market, but with the need for social and other benefits, then who, how, how, will finance this, how do they want to relocate these people? So once again, Jobbik will not be a partner in any alien resettlement, and will do everything in its power to prevent it. For the Fidesz-KDNP's attention, we therefore recommend that you clarify your own position both in relation to deportations and in relation to quota. Not only did he not do so in connection with the deportations, but this year the number of deportees you have received is now climbing to a thousand. And under the grass, regardless of the media publicity, these people are here, and you have no idea of their future fate. Another issue is the quota, which, although it is possible to start with a thousand people, is almost impossible to prevent family reunification in a globalised world. And it's not about a wife or a child or two, it's about a much bigger crowd. So as much as one or two thousand aliens who have been deployed here under quota can swell to a mass of 50,000 over two decades. That is why we say that there will be very little on the part of the Orbán government that they are fighting the quota in rhetoric. They say at home that it is a very bad solution, that Europe should be forced not to choose this path, not to force it on Hungary, but in the end you will announce that the European Union has obliged you to implement it, to comply with it, and although you do not want it to be a very bad solution, you do not want to endanger cohesion funds and others. They'll find an excuse for that. We have strong suspicion that you have a background deal with Brussels, where appropriate, in order to avoid mass deportations in order to implement the quota. If, however, they had such a thought in mind, I would like to warn them not to do such a thing right now, since this would release the spirit from the bottle, trigger irreversible processes where one of the smallest, although real, problems will be about how high the health costs involved are. Therefore, we are not only asking you, but we also call on you to clarify your position on this matter, as this basically determines who can finance health and any other kind of expenditure. To me, my own world view would be closer to financing these costs and converting those who forced this problem to us. Thank you for the opportunity. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-103	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for a two-minute comment.
u2015-10-06-104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll try not to have to use the normal comment. So, just to be clear: my personal position, but I can safely say that the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party is that it is in the interests of the Hungarian people to act on this issue - in the interests of the Hungarian people - and, in addition, to treat the matter in a humane manner. Now, these two have to be able to fit side by side. What I see today is no. What I see today is that in the second case, I am certain that there are distortions, and in the first case, I have feelings of absence. Because when I say that the importance of health screening cannot be debated, I do not say that it must be done for everyone, but I say that it must be done in all cases of necessity. [[17.10]] But that's not the 1 percent of those registered when, according to the Secretary of State, 5 percent are willing to be subject to these screenings anyway. So once again, with the interests of the Hungarian people in mind and humane handling of the problem. Of course, it costs money, but if we don't sacrifice resources, say, in terms of health screenings, if we don't put prevention in the story, then what happens next? It's obviously a lot of problems that cost a lot more. So that's why - and I put it in quotes - I'm not saying that, yes, if there are problems, there is a source for that, even if it doesn't feel good, because then it causes a lot more trouble if we don't do that. Where can sources be created for this? Now, if I start a normal comment, I'm going to put 5000 billion forints on the table, which can be done, only with government intent, will have to do it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And the kind - thank you, I will finish - of willingness not to leave it to others, but to translate it for what is necessary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-06-105	I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát for two minutes.
u2015-10-06-106	Mr President, Dear House, I understand that there is a difference between the screening rate of between 1 and 5 percent, but what I'm more interested in is what is the base, what is the 100 percent that can enter this country, which can be deported back to this country, or which can be tried by quota. I would like to reduce this base as much as possible. This is why Jobbik urged that registration should be suspended in Hungary, where appropriate. We also provide another solution, and the two are not mutually exclusive: this is the complete physical border lock, closing for all illegal arrivals. By the way, you can still show up at the border crossing point and say I'm a refugee. On the basis of international conventions, I would add, the person fled until he reached the first safe country. As far as I know, there is no conflict in the neighbouring countries, except Ukraine, that can be said to have refugees coming to us, so there would be plenty of solutions to Hungary's defence. And by the way, we do not receive refugees, indeed; migrants, immigrants, among whom there are few, but those who come from a real threat. What I mean is that I think it's below 30 percent, and there's a very large, vast majority, which are consciously, economically arriving immigrants. Allow me one aspect: the untenable situation in the vicinity of the Eastern Railway Station has been mentioned. I have so many comments that no one invited these people to the Eastern Railway Station, no one sent them there, because this was not a designated registration point or transit zone or anything else for them. By the way, I see some reason that the Fidesz-KDNP allowed this situation to escalate as a kind of symbol, so that it might appear to be a savior, but we also need to see that if we had said that, with György Szilágyi, Zsolt Egyed and some of my fellow Members, we would have started on the highway or decided not to comply with the legislation in force, by evening we would have found ourselves in the prison. But what is untenable is that Hungary is from a stranger [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] let the people who arrive be allowed to do what is not acceptable to the people who live here, this is completely unacceptable. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-107	We will now return to the circle of ordinary speakers, so I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-10-06-108	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, You've heard interesting things lately. We have now learned the official position of the MSZP, which, if I quote correctly, looks like it is in the interests of the Hungarian people that we have to deal with this situation and we have to do things humanely. We have come this far, my only question is where the MSZP had the interests of the Hungarian people in mind at the time when the government was finally very reluctant to take steps to protect the country and you did not support it. When you try to protect Hungarian people, you do not support them with your vote or anything else. That humanely... once again, the question arises as to how far this humane solution is going to go. So how can humanely deal with people who refuse to comply with the laws, regulations and rules of Hungary and the European Union, not only are they unwilling to submit to screening and health screening, but they are not even willing to register. You often refer to the Geneva Convention, and indeed, there are interesting things in the Geneva Convention. For example, the Geneva Convention states that yes, it is possible to cross the green border, so it is also possible to go into a country illegally to a refugee in case his life is threatened. But even if his life is threatened, what is the first thing this refugee has to do with the Geneva Convention? To report to the authorities of that country. So volunteer, and tell me that I'm asking you nicely, that I came over here and I didn't come at the registered point, but I ran because I had any problems. These things are not being observed by these people, so from now on I feel that there are conflicting interests between the protection of Hungarians and the attempt to act humanely against those who have already committed lawlessness by their entry. [[Attila Móring József takes over his notary seat.]] Another important thing is that you constantly refer to what you said and what you didn't say in 2014. Then I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this migrant situation in Hungary, it is true that it exists in a smaller number from 2012 onwards. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has said this several times. It was only from 2012 that, when these migrants came in a smaller number, the Hungarian authorities were usually able to catch them, without any health inspection, they received a paper to travel free of charge in Hungary, and they were told to do so, the reception centre in Debrecen. And they boarded the public transport vehicles, used it to travel among the Hungarian people. And that wasn't a security risk? Think about how many times in the last five or six years news has been kept about either the avian influenza epidemics or the Ebola or the MERS - the coronal virus - about what security measures have been introduced in the aircraft and everywhere at the borders, because, yes, if such a virus enters this country, there will be insurmountable consequences. There will be inaccessible consequences for Hungarian people, and there will be inaccessible consequences, especially for Europe, because it will be very difficult to stop them. After all, it is not a coincidence that if someone travels, say, to Africa, how many vaccinations they must receive before they are given, or how many vaccinations it is good to inject themselves so that, for example, they can return home safely and alive. This is because these people have grown up in a completely different environment and in a completely different situation, so they can also be diseases that are not dangerous to them, so they are carriers, but for another adult in a European culture and in a European medium, especially children and older people, especially an aggressive virus or bacteria can have unpredictable consequences. The other is a very important question, and here comes the question of money and everything else, that it's a vicious circle because if we let these people in, we do these screenings, and a large number of sick people come in, and we even have to see these sick people, then health care can break into it. Breaking health can also cause a catastrophic situation for Hungarians in Hungary. If we are doing - and I am now making only suggestions - that we are doing a screening at the border and that we are not letting anyone who is sick into, let us say, Hungary's territory, then you are going to rush to the European Union and talk about how reprehensible it is in Hungary how they treat these migrants, as you have said to you, how outrageous it is, you say now, that when a health screening is carried out in the camps and someone's request for asylum is launched, they will leave. What's this? Why don't you stop it? [[17.20]] But if we were to set up closed camps, then you would be the first to rush back to the European Union and complain about Hungary, everyone here would be a Nazi, fascist and racist, as you usually say, because you are just as far as the polls say, at 6 percent or 8 percent, trying to use this question for your political purposes, which is a very, very serious question. So I will say this again: it is very, very important that we try to protect the country fully from a health point of view, and this requires a very serious health screening, but another question is whether, after this health screening, Hungary will be able to carry out the health care of those people, or if this would require a pan-European solution, in which everyone would take these costs as far as possible. I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing. You are saying that we really need to provide these people with enormous and highly professional skills in health. But it's also a contradiction. And speaking of humane solutions: if someone in Hungary today, a Hungarian citizen, does not have a job for a long time, they either pay more than 6,000 forints a month, or they do not receive health care, or they pay for health care that is currently in place. [[Interviews in the lines of the MSZP: Tell the government! You're right. Towards MSZP:]] You're the one who brought up how these people should be cared for, and that's what you're told. Do you know why he's telling you both, by the way? Because you've been doing the same thing together with the Fides for 25 years, and you've created the conditions in this country that are currently in place. So, if we look at the humane solutions: how humane it is that if there is a man here today in Hungary who may have raised children, who may have worked a lot in his life, but who is now not getting a job for a long time, he has to pay for the health care he receives, while others who come here and, let's say, might be in a much better position - if we look at the financial conditions that can be seen with one or two migrants or refugees, he may have more cash and better clothes than many Hungarians in Hungary - and he should be given full health care in your opinion? Once again, we are just asking questions, trying to think about what the solution could be, because we need to find a solution to this. I would like only one thing if the saying that Nándor Gúr said was true, that you want to act in the interests of the Hungarian people and that you want to deal with this situation in the interests of the Hungarian people. Time will decide whether you are serious about this or whether you will continue to deal with this migrant issue for political gain. [[Interjection in the ranks of the MSZP: Unlike Jobbik!]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-109	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-06-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought I didn't have to, but I do have to - [[It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] [[It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] but you do have to - because I see that my fellow Member Szilágyi is unable to place himself now, that he is actually still sitting in the benches of Jobbik, or he is already winking that he may be asked to become an assistant secretary of state. (Interjection in Jobbik's ranks. ) No, no, let's forget where it goes, because it was a slip-up for my fellow Member here, because when he talks about 6-8 percent, I don't know if he's seeing his own future or what he's talking about. The point, my fellow Member, is either at the political level, or they can break up with their roots and by waving the common flag - you know, what they are doing in their process - and then they will take their own path, Fidesz-Jobs, Jobbik-Fidesz, as you like; or they will go the way - they must decide - which is about being a serving, squirming puppy when they think they will satisfy the needs of the big brother. [[It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] You obviously decide in a political sense, but you can't play this story for a long time, that, once in a while, I'm on my own, I'm gonna show myself, and then I'm gonna lie down, and I'm gonna fulfill all sorts of wishes. Seriously, I said the story - I said these few thoughts only because it was inspiring to hear my fellow Member Szilágyi's voice - which is much more serious: my fellow Members, there is a great value in Europe, I think, the four freedoms of which I think it is extremely important for us, that the living workforce can flow freely in Europe, obviously in the relations between the European Member States. We're aware of that. I think that it is always necessary to think about making all kinds of decisions - the refugee question, the migrant question, how it stands - whether we have such a bearing on whether, in a later period, economic refugees, the 600 thousand Hungarians who earn their family's bread elsewhere in Europe, will be able to do so. I'm not happy that 600,000 people don't make their living at home. I'd like you to find it at home. But this government [[To the representatives of Jobbik:]] With your assistance, you have also created a situation where over the past five years, half a million people have been forced to leave this country, becoming economic refugees. You talk about refugees and economic refugees, which is why half a million people were forced to leave this country. [[It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] I'm turning here because they were part of a helping partner in this process. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik.]] The point is: these people - every survey is based on this - are unfortunately planning their lives in the long run without wanting to come home to Hungary. I'm not happy about this. It would be much better if they worked at home, had taxpayers at home, increased the economy, strengthened the economy, and strengthened the pension fund, for example. But that is not the case today. One word, like a hundred, I just want to link the two questions to each other so that if and if we can never go beyond ourselves, we think that we can only solve all the questions ourselves - only Hungary - on the stage of Europe, I think we will not get anywhere. I am not saying that there are only European and common solutions, but I am saying that there is something that we need to add separately, and there is something that needs more Europe in this respect. So, I don't think there's any way you can just be a beneficiary of something, and from the other side, you can't keep yourself out of it. I think - perhaps wrong in your opinion, but I think - that we also have common issues on these issues, including asylum and migrant issues in Europe, in which we must also be able to call for enforcement and adoptive behaviour. One word, like a hundred, I'm just saying again that if these points are not found by the government - because the government is in position - then we're taking losses. If it's always an ugly metaphor, but the only way to go to the pub is to kick the door in, and I don't want to say anything even worse is to spit in the door, it doesn't lead to anything. What I am trying to say is that, in terms of either our foreign policy or anything else, I think that we need to pursue a policy that includes, in the eyes of others, a category of minimum admissibility, its potential. But the whole point of this whole story in my mind is that if Hungary is visited by many of the third world's frameworks, not from the European stage, but by evoking or going through it, I think it is also in our self-interest and in the interests of the Hungarian people that we have to face as little care and problems as possible. As a result, if we do not do the screenings, health tests or the resources devoted to it - which is difficult, of course, to do so, and we cannot, let us say, use it to strengthen and increase the economy - if we do not sacrifice to do so, we will face much greater risks. [[17 .30]] So I think it is necessary to sacrifice. Of course, there is a need to find, in a manner dictated by common sense, the optimal rates that are sufficient to address the problem and, of course, to provide a reassuring way to avoid facing a great deal of real, existing problems. I don't think this story is over in two months. I do not think that there will be no flood of refugees, now not necessarily only between Hungary and Europe, but in the world where 30-40 million refugees are looking for their place... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: 59,5.]] There are different calculations, yes. Last night, when I was reading, it was 30 to 40 million... Whatever. If 50, 50. But this scale is a scale of scale that is already tangible. Europe's population is 500 million roughly, 500 million. If all refugees were to end up in Europe, 50 million people - say we accept this number - would be 10 percent of Europe's population. And I'm not going any further on population policy and other issues. But obviously that's not the case. So you can fetishize, you can do a lot of things, you can deny them, and you can, to say the least, decompose these issues. I don't think they're any good. I think it's good to try and think normally in this situation that the problem is that we don't want it, we have it. We need to find a way to deal with the problem, find solutions to this story. Seriously, I am convinced in this respect that Hungary alone, in itself, we will not be able to deal with this issue, because it is a country of the magnitude of 10 million, that if, as we have just said, we face a refugee flood of 50 million, it will make the story unmanageable. Obviously, we don't have to handle this. But to be a part of this story, I'm sure. But I don't want to go too far in this thing, I want to come back to this bill. And with regard to this bill, I can only say that if we register... Now that we register or do not register... But if we register, we cannot allow ourselves, I think, among the registered, where the odds of having any type of health problem are raised, whether we face a problem with hepatitis, HIV or any type of screening, we should not do the face-to-face there. And then comes the next question, what about the treatment? Of course, my colleague Szilágyi, we agree that these are all financial issues. But I think that I think it is right that prevention, prevention, even if we sacrifice resources, is better than facing any kind of deep problems that can lead to far greater catastrophic situations. And moreover, if we can even involve European Union funds in the implementation of this story, and we do not have to use the Hungarian budget to draw up the money I said that if necessary, I will now explain where and how a responsible government could create the background of this, not the background of this, of this many times, but if we can even get European resources involved, then I think that it is even more worthwhile to do everything in a sense that is in the interests of the people living in Hungary. This is what I am talking about when I say that our position is to try to deal with these issues in this sense, in this respect and in the interest of the Hungarian people and in the pursuit of a humane treatment. Two more things in short. One of them. I'm talking about legality in the sense that it doesn't matter to me what kind of government it is. But if he has a constitution, a basic law, it's based on it. If you have another law available, then, of course, it does. But if not, no one can enter the stage of lawlessness. If the government itself goes in the direction of trying to apply solutions other than the Fundamental Law in a difficult situation, it is not permissible because lawlessness is not acceptable to anyone. And I am saying this not only in this particular case, but also in general. So what I want to say is that obviously, if a half a year ago, when a multitude of posters were unloaded, because they had information, probably more than we, regular Members of Parliament, about what is expected and what will happen, if those resources are not used to create small tension, small chaos, small, small, but to what needs to be done in terms of prevention, then we face fewer and less problems than we may now have to face. And my last two thoughts are about my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, when the category is left behind, so that he was not sent, not taken, let him be, I think it is an elemental sin. It's not the government's job to let it go, it's their job to solve it. That's why he steers. If you don't solve it, it's the government's responsibility, because it's his responsibility. I think it is our job for the opposition, for you, for us, for everyone else and for us to try to help constructively, on the one hand, if we can, and, on the other hand, to make sure that it is resolved or not. In the same way as I said the specific example concerning Hungarian people, let's say, within a year in terms of second lung screening. So, nonsense. Just in cases involving a layer of this kind of burden, who would, if they were to be blessed with existing problems, go for a screening if they were not to be paid for, but since even this small money is a big money to him in terms of his daily livelihood, he would not do so. And what does that bring to life? It brings to life the risk that it carries and carries the potential for infection in relation to people around it. I'm done talking about it. I just want to say once again and again, personally, but with a calm spirit, once again, the Hungarian Socialist Party's position on this matter is clearly that, whenever possible, we will always try to do our job on the stage of legality, regardless of the political creed, with a humane solution and, I add one more sentence. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa: You're right! Applause from the MSZP bencho.]]
u2015-10-06-111	We now have two-minute comments, first I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-10-06-112	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I must respond to Nándor Gúr. Of course, he doesn't know, I understand that you don't understand Jobbik, a XXI. 20th century party As a member of the 100th century party. We have one job to do, Congressman. The fact that we look at what is in the country's best interests, and we support the government when it comes to protecting, for example, Hungary. If we believe that the country's interests, let's say, are not served by the land law, then we are against it. We decide exactly what's right. And you are right that it is indeed a great tragedy that 600 thousand Hungarians and qualified Hungarians are working abroad at the moment. It's just that you're talking about this as if it had nothing to do with you guys. However, you know, Congressman, you may have had some idea about this because you have been part of the Hungarian public life for the past 25 years. I don't know. I'm just asking questions. You may know, I don't know who the people who betrayed the country during the privatisation are. I don't know if you know, you probably know who it could be who sabotaged the whole change of regime, who went to bed with the big money, who went to bed with the EU, since you're talking about going to bed. Those who led us to believe that we should dare to be small in this country, who faced the Hungarians across the border, our Hungarian brothers and sisters across the border. The Prime Minister of whom he was proud toasted with the Romanian Prime Minister on 1 December. [[17.40]] I don't know if you know who they are. Or whose prime minister was it who, after fifty years, on the anniversary of 1956, got shot into his own people, is it true that, fortunately, it was only rubber bullets? [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So you can say that there's nothing you can do, but you know that all of these things have contributed to the fact that there are 600,000 people out there right now. Of course, the economic part is the most important part of this for people who have gone out, but they may have had enough of a country that you, by the way, share together. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] CHAPTER XX 100th century parties have been formed in the last 25 years.
u2015-10-06-113	I now give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs in two minutes.
u2015-10-06-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz and of the Government, Would you like some coffee, perhaps? [[Noise, interrupting from Fidesz: We've already been drinking.]] 'Cause that's what's happening right now. This is the absurdity of the world that, in the Hungarian Parliament, the opposition is arguing with each other and not about the presentation. Therefore, I would like to say, in fact, once in relation to the proposal: it is not a matter of screening all refugees starting tomorrow, but only if this particular crisis, which is being announced, comes up. That's what we're arguing about. He hasn't come forward yet. Secondly, I would like to point out factually, ladies and gentlemen, the situation today is that refugees are being transported by the Hungarian government by train to Hegyeshalom. That's it, and that's it. We can't even see them, between us. Three: I should have sought consensus in this, and kept the system of reconciliation between the parties, so that, of course, the opposition has regard to the ability of the government to act, and has regard to the parliamentary proportions, it is quite clear, but this would have been worth this mass, and it would not have come up in such situations when we are happy with each other, I mean here with one another, and we are talking about who is a party, while we should be talking about how this problem will stay with us for about a decade, if I do not wish it for us. I would therefore like to criticise the Government on this proposal only to the extent that we should not have to argue about such proposals if there was a constant desire for national consensus and consensus in this matter in the government, not just between the parties, but between all actors. That is all I wanted to note, and I finished the debate on my part.
u2015-10-06-115	I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-06-116	Mr President, Dear House, I could do with a sharp turn of events that this is not about opposition parties arguing, but, where appropriate, a possible future governing party [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] He's calling for the activities of an ex-regulating party. Obviously, by the future, I'm thinking of Jobbik, under the former MSZP, but let's not deal with this issue so much. I think it is a very, very dangerous process, which is mentioned here from your words, that, where appropriate, in relation to people who are forced out of the economy, it is as if we were threatening that if we act too hard on the migration situation, these people will suffer some kind of damage. I would like to state here that this is an issue that I can summarize with a consciously organized invasion of Hungary. In Hungary, there is an attempt to exchange people, where hundreds of thousands of people may leave their places in the long run, and there may be backup forces who want to fill them with aliens. The Jobbik will do everything they can to stop it, but what we need to see is that if you don't share the theory of population exchange, the invasion is visible, it's drawn out in front of all of us, hundreds of thousands of people pouring through us every year. In an emergency like this, I would expect us to really move beyond LMP, Jobbik, Fidesz, whatever, to have a common national minimum to protect our country, because that's what we're sworn to do here. The thing is, this invasion is happening right in front of us, and if it's written in the history books ten or twenty years from now, they're going to bring us all out in the sense of shared responsibility, why we didn't stop it, why we didn't do something. What I see is that, in every case, I take responsibility for the government. In every single case. But I also see that this amazing contrast to the fact that we are trying to pair the issue of immigrants with immigrants is similar to that of the situation of the migrants arriving now compared to that of the Hungarians who fled in '56, which is an incredibly bleak analogy, because we have to say that those Hungarians in '56 were forced to leave from a real war threat, thanking other countries for the opportunity they had received. As well-trained workers, they may even have been integrated into societies and had no choice where to go. I would add that if the migrants arriving now were to be locked up in a mass of conditions such as, after 56 the Hungarians fleeing, I think that in three days hell would break loose, because now they are smarted out of their rights in small booklets, via the Internet, through globalised channels, now everyone knows their rights, but not their obligations. I say that yes, there should be a solution over parties, because, in the midst of the invasion, it is a historical responsibility to act against the intention of a population exchange, and I share that it is necessary to allow our Hungarian brothers who have broken across the border to prosper in the homeland, and also to the emigrated Hungarians that, if they want to, they can return, and I very much hope that they all want to. I also hope that we agree on that. But it is not possible for Hungary to be blackmailed, attacked from the outside with a form of migration, from the inside, and from within the EU to be blackmailed by the fact that it will not receive funds from cohesion funds if it does not accept the quota. I do not tolerate being blackmailed by my country, I do not tolerate acting with such means against Hungary, because there is an internal contribution to the external attack. It's not that anyone here is the government's little brother, and they're supposed to help him out, no. We will support every single motion, whether it is a foreign exchange loan or a land issue - where the government is very badly involved otherwise - or a migration issue that helps three or four Hungarians; if such a solution comes before us, we will support it. And I must refuse that Hungary is a beneficiary of the European Union. This is heard at least as often from the mouth of pro-government representatives as from the MEPs. As long as there are two things missing, you can't say that. An EU balance sheet is missing, an EU balance sheet is missing from the first year of our EU membership, which clearly quantifys the benefits and disadvantages, and a national inventory of assets is missing. Until these two conditions have been fulfilled in the fifth year of the current government, it is not possible to state anything about the status of the beneficiaries of Hungary, at least not in a meaningful and credible way. I am looking at a picture where, under the pressure of the migration crisis, the invasion, otherwise Western Europe will collapse much sooner than the East, and, where appropriate, Eastern-Central Europe may be, if you will, the last bastion of European civilisation, and I do not want to wait for this image, I do not want to live on a reservation in my own country. Therefore, Jobbik asks everyone to finally have a common national minimum, regardless of party color, according to which we do not deal with quota-like solutions, so we deal with consequences, but with real solutions, where appropriate by not accepting and not letting in the total mass of those who approach the border illegally, to prevent us from discussing health costs for hours, for example. We said that there would be a solution, yes, the suspension of registration is leading in one direction, and it would also be a relief if no one could illegally cross Hungary's borders in the future. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-117	I am now giving the floor to Member István Józsa in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-06-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've got a proposal in front of me, it says T/6398, and it's an amendment to the Health Act. I would like to remind you that the government has put a bill here with a delayed measure, and Jobbik may be the 21st, XXII., but if I really wanted to do it, then the XXIII would do it. The party of the century, perhaps by then they will have this connection in their minds, what they call the world, Europe, Hungary, and the nation. You know, my Hungarian brothers and sisters [[Defiance.]] I'm saying this because some of your revelations seem to be stuck with some of the tiny elements of this microcosm, and they want to deal with some problems, like yours and the government's problem, not to mention us. But it's better they don't talk about us, because they don't understand. [[Noise.]] So, back to the presentation, I very warmly welcome the government's taking its task seriously. I very much welcome the fact that if you find a humane solution to both the health care of Hungarian people and the health care of displaced refugees; the other issue is that this proposal, which is here, may actually solve some small problem, is actually prolonging to keep the issue in front of Parliament. [[17.50]] It does not seem to come out of this presentation that the government, overall, would see a little clearer ways of dealing with this problem, its own opportunities, what opportunities would be opened up, say, in a European cooperation, and I would put the emphasis on cooperation here. I am not saying that what is now being proposed in the EU would be a solution to the problem, but I am saying that without cooperation, the Hungarian government, including Hungary, has much less chance of achieving results in dealing with the problem on the way to a solution at some point than if it cooperates with the EU. I do not rule out that the Hungarian government could make useful proposals, for example, taking into account the MSZP proposals, to the European Union. So we would like this to be a very serious problem at European level, not the scene of domestic political warfare, but Hungary, the Government of Hungary, in line with the gravity of the situation, could also make a substantial contribution to addressing the issue, taking into account the opposition's proposals. In this, it's a faint, tiny moment, and we're asking for a lot more than that. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-06-119	As a last comment, I will give the floor to Mr László György Lukács in two minutes.
u2015-10-06-120	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So, perhaps by the end of the debate, it is worth summing up, however, before the Secretary of State, of course, gives his own summary of what is crystal clear from Jobbik's position, and perhaps it can be said that through this light you can look at every such bill that measures a policy or the issue of illegal immigration or clarifies it. In this case, too, the important thing that we may have to stick to - and this is my personal creed, and I believe that Jobbik is also a creed - is what is true social good, which is greater social good. The truly important social good and greater social good is to ensure the protection of the country, the protection of Hungarian citizens, and to ensure that any back lock, be it any fence, primarily our internal integrity and the integrity of the country must be taken into account. So when we look at the amendment of the Health Act, we also need to see it through these glasses, and we need to focus on this greater social good. Of course, when we are talking about the legislation itself, the amendment of the health law, we must also take into account how, in that case, we are not able to keep everyone away, what is the second important social good, and that if they are here - and for whatever reason, there is an illegal immigrant - how to ensure the protection of society. In this case, Jobbik has also formulated its own proposals and its previous proposal for a resolution - and we can take it as a health barrier - in order to have an active and more secure system with which, once they have come in and in any way here, a full security can be guaranteed. But what is the first step, what is the first social good, is not to come into Hungary, and whether it is the fence or anything that protects the country, it must be guaranteed first, and Jobbik has formulated its amendments so that if the second social good is needed, we can create a secure system in this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-121	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see any further opposition. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-10-06-122	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On a very important issue, a relatively transparent, shorter bill, we had a medium-term debate. Indeed, part of the debate did not even take place between the national and the pro-government factions, but between the opposition's fractions. Looking at this was actually a little easier. At the same time, I must say that the government has tabled this bill because we, the government of Hungary, must always be first in the interests of the Hungarian people. Human dignity and fundamental human rights must, of course, be guaranteed to all people, and this proposal is also in their interest, but if, in the interests of Hungary, the Hungarian Government does not act in the international sphere or in this international crisis, in the process of modern immigration, no one else will represent the interests of the Hungarian people. That is why it was important to present this bill so that we could represent the interests of the Hungarian people. Hungary is helping those 300,000 people who arrived at our border with a wide variety of humanitarian instruments, not with their passport, workbook and diploma, but often with their personal documents thrown away in an unidentifiable way. A person whose name and date of birth are often difficult to find out about is obviously even more difficult to find out about infectious diseases or previous diseases. However, after conducting the legal procedure, we have ensured that everyone who has applied for asylum is given food and health care at the reception centre. You know that you were most obviously involved in outpatient care, with about five thousand, hundreds of people taking inpatient care, even if I look at the work done, there were about 120 people involved. So Hungary, I believe, has done beyond its power on this issue, and that there has not been a humanitarian disaster at the border of the European Union, which in this case means the border of Hungary, so both the police, the staff of the HAC, the representatives of the healthcare workers, the charitable organisations working there and everyone else involved deserve recognition. This was also part of health care. But if, from a humanitarian point of view, I look only at the care of children, if, in a month, the authorities distribute about 2,900 children's food packages, hundreds of kilos of biscuits, thousands of baby food, 6 thousand litres of milk, even hundreds of bottles, even thousands of diapers, and even 58 kilograms of baby cake, then we can say that for those who require increased care, Hungary has always been a support and help. At the same time, Hungary is trying to stop the process itself, which poses huge threats to Europe in modern-day migration by all legal means. From an unregulated inflow, Hungary must take a controlled, legal and secure procedure, and in addition to these other public-law options, in order to minimise the epidemiological risk, in order to preserve the health of Hungary, the European Union and immigrants, it is important that we accept this bill and make the chief official doctor, the government offices, the local health authorities, able to make them able to act with transfer possibilities, the extension of drug purchasing powers, so that they can really take action to protect the health of all people, but especially the people living in Hungary. The representative of the LMP has said a lot about the care that was deliberately missed and that sort of thing. I have taken these examples because, quite simply, if you see what work is going on there, at the border, if you see how much pressure the Hungarian authorities are under and how much assistance they have provided to those here, while, as has been said in the debate, they are safer than in many other Western European countries, as we hear the news every day about the burning of different reception centres, while in Hungary there was no such aggression, no such violence against anyone who came to Hungary illegally or legally. However, the European Union's contribution will be reduced compared to this, as you know that from the 200 billion forints we spend on immigration as a whole, the European Union has already committed 7 billion, 7 billion out of 200 billion and 3.5 percent of Hungary's costs in the spirit of the Union's solidarity, we can say that Hungary is really performing beyond its power. We are also prepared for the colder period - because this will certainly come, and in the previous weeks there have been very cold temperatures during the night, too - besides providing the medicines we have had so far, with which we are still ready to group the forces there. Let me just give you one example: 190 heated tents are preparing for registration, temporary accommodation for all who cooperate with the authorities to do so here. [[18.00]] But what is the main problem - and I think all parties have acknowledged in their speeches - is the lack of cooperation. Even though we offer free travel to the reception centre, even though we offer these humanitarian solidarity actions, these people do not cooperate in terms of health or administration, many do not even give fingerprints. How they know this information, who encourages them not to give fingerprints, do not do the screening tests, do not wait for the results, I think we may find out later, but it is extremely irresponsible for those who encourage them to do so. So Hungary is also trying to make the most of its potential in the field of health with this bill. Very strange things were said here in the debate. First of all, I see that the Hungarian Socialist Party has had an extremely embarrassing explanation about this subject, because they are going out of the building and they see the summer sentences they have done - not a little, but quite a lot - and then they have to come into Parliament and prove the opposite; it is quite difficult. Here we are faced with a rhetoric of the socialists over the last few months, like a branch of a tree: they have spoken in every direction, they have said everything, and the opposite of everything. It seems the socialists have maneuvered themselves into a political maze, turning around, but they can't get out of it. Compared to this, the position of Fidesz-KDNP, the ruling parties, has been the same since the first minute. Few European political leaders, even prime ministers, have been found in European politics in the last year, who say the same thing today as a year ago. Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz-KDNP say the same thing. But if you look at the great leaders in Western Europe, there is a very big change in their position. And we were able to do this because we launched a national consultation and based our position on it. Here I was referred several times to my speech before the agenda, and I am glad that I have, therefore, hit the Socialist Group. Indeed, we stand on the basis of the national consultation, and while in Western Europe a large number of parties, left-wing parties, use the refugee issue to vote and count on them as their core base, and vote on a much larger proportion, usually 60%, left-wing parties, we have tried not to approach this aspect and not to see potential voters in it, but to represent Hungary's interests and respect everyone's human dignity. There have even been statements from the opposition that the Fundamental Law must now be followed - I have not heard from a socialist representative in the last three to four years that the Fundamental Law is therefore in order. If they had come to his parliamentary debate or supported him, it would have been even better, but it wouldn't have been wrong if they had admitted that the Fundamental Law had to be respected. I hope that, as the provisions of the Fundamental Law are subsequently recognised, the importance of this law will be recognised sooner or later, but I hope that this will be sooner, and that you and all the parties in Parliament will support it in the final vote. I don't think anyone can have professional or substantive political objections to the bill. Obviously, there was an actual political hand in the debate in all sorts of relations, but no one can dispute the need for this bill. So I'm asking you to support him in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-10-06-123	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the draft law on the final text of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is now taking place. The submission was made in T/6258. You can view it on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Mikola István, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2015-10-06-124	Mr President, Dear House, The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva was originally a temporary organisation to deal with the refugee crisis caused by the Second World War, which was confirmed, unfortunately, during the management of the refugee wave following the devastation of the 1956 Hungarian Revolution. The High Commissioner for Refugees could start operating in Hungary after the change of regime, on the basis of an agreement between the parties signed on 4 October 1989. The organization started to install certain administrative and supporting functions, such as accounting and education, previously provided by the Geneva Centre, in order to ensure cost-effectiveness in Budapest from 2007. The parties therefore settled the conditions for the operation of the organisation and its offices in Hungary on 29 February 2008 in a new agreement and its annex. In order to expand the organisation in Budapest, the government has provided former and new properties to the High Commissioner for Refugees and is now united in 1051/2015. The Court held that it had been decided on by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The provisions on new conditions were negotiated by the parties in spring 2015 and, in order to transfer them, the Parties amended the 2008 Agreement by a Protocol signed on 28 July 2015. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In view of the fact that the 2008 agreement was published by law, a report containing its amendments should also be drawn up by law. In order to bring this Protocol into force, it is necessary to issue a notification signed by the High Commissioner for Refugees. A similar notification by the Hungarian party requires the ratification and publication of the Protocol by Parliament. This bill is therefore of a technical nature, without prejudice to the substantive domestic treatment of asylum, with the sole aim of providing Hungarian property to the High Commissioner for Refugees, 1051/2015. Image of the provisions of Government Resolution No. 1 in international law. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-06-125	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by its representatives, the first of which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-06-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! As the Secretary of State pointed out, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees was established on 14 December 1950 by the UN General Assembly. The General Assembly entrusted the High Commissioner with the management and coordination of international measures for the protection of refugees and the resolution of related problems. The primary task of the High Commissioner is to protect the rights and well-being of refugees, but also to support stateless people. Over the past six decades, the High Commissioner has helped tens of millions of people. Some 7,500 people working in more than 125 countries help 34 million people around the world every day. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has been operating in Hungary since 1989. During the initial period, Hungary's government was primarily involved in the creation of national legislation harmonised with international refugee law and the construction of refugee supply infrastructure. In accordance with his mandate, he was also involved in the evaluation of asylum applications, as Hungary joined the 1951 Convention with a geographical restriction, which means that the country only examined whether the criteria for refugee status were met for European asylum seekers. Following the entry into force of the asylum law, which abolished the geographical restriction in 1998, the main focus of the activities of the High Commissioner was to support the development of national asylum laws and institutions. Today, the Hungarian office of the organization operates within the framework of the Central European Regional Representation of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The Budapest-based regional representation operates in eight states of the region: Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Croatia, Poland, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. In order to achieve its objectives, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has close links and cooperates with the actors of government and civil society. This cooperation can take many forms, and in some cases it is supported by a formal agreement. One of the outstanding examples of this is the UN High Commissioner for Refugees Office, the Border Guard and the Tripartite Agreement on Border Observation signed by the Hungarian Helsinki Committee in 2006. [[18.10]] The wording of the proposal before us was necessary, as the Secretary of State pointed out, because the circumstances of the agreement between the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Government of the Republic of Hungary signed in 2008. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees installed various administrative and operational support functions in Budapest in 2007. In order to expand this organisation, the conditions for the provision of a new office building to be used in 2015 are different from those previously, and the agreement and its annex have therefore to be recast. The content of the agreement is subject to law, and the protocol amending it can therefore be published in law. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-06-127	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Horváth, head speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-10-06-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In agreement with the introduction of the Secretary of State and the Member, the Hungarian Socialist Party also considers it important to sign an agreement on the finalization of the text of this Protocol. I would like to add a few more points to what has been said about the activities of the High Commissioner. Over the years, the High Commissioner has often helped people who had to find a new home within their country because of conflict or violence. One of the less spectacular activities of the organisation is assistance to stateless people who are often ignored. The problem affects millions of people who are all at risk of denying them fundamental rights because they are not nationals of any nation. In 1954 the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in recognition of his extraordinary work to help European refugees. A quarter of a century later, in 81, he won the award for his global refugee assistance activity again, especially with regard to the fact that he had to overcome a number of political obstacles during his operation. It is also interesting to note that, at the time of its establishment, there were only 34 members of the High Commissionership, which has now increased to 7680. The organization operates 414 offices in more than 125 countries. Today, the High Commissioner's activities affect some 33.9 million people, including 10.5 million refugees, 14.7 million internally displaced people, 3.1 million returnees, 3.5 million stateless people and over 837 thousand asylum seekers. The High Commissioner installed additional administrative and operational support functions in Budapest in 2007. In addition to the representation, Budapest also hosts the global service centre of the organization, with nearly 230 staff performing financial, communication, supply and global information tasks. The technical conditions for the use of the office building provided by the Government were set out in an annex to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. It has already been stated that the Agreement signed on 29 February 2008 was signed under Article XVI of the Act of Accession of 2008. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. In order to enhance the function of the organisation, the terms and conditions of the new office building provided for the use of the High Commissioner in 2015 are different from those previously, and therefore the agreement and its annex, as the Secretary of State mentioned, need to be amended. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the Government's free use and possession of office space for the High Commissioner from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and its scope. In addition, it is extremely important for the government to provide the Centre with the public services necessary for its work, including electricity, water supply, sewage treatment, fire protection, waste disposal, gas supply, postal and telephone services. We consider it important to support that any changes in technical details in the future do not require any amendment of the law, i.e. the revised provisions of the Annex are incorporated into a lower-level supplementary agreement which will not be published; parenthesis, Article 2, the contribution of the Government of the Republic of Hungary to the organisation's global service centre in Budapest, is no longer part of the agreement. In view of the above, the Hungarian Socialist Party supports acceptance. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-06-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask whether one of our fellow Members wishes to make use of the speech of the lead speaker. [[Martin Gyöngyösi reporting.]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-06-130	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. I would also like to join the previous speakers in saying that we consider it important to adopt the technical nature of the protocol. In addition, the efforts made by the United Nations over the past decades must, of course, be appreciated, as it is an organisation that has really done a great deal in recent decades to resolve and resolve the issue of refugees in the world. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees was the guarantee that the individual right to seek refugee status, asylum, asylum, and then return voluntarily to their own country of residence could prevail. So this right was guaranteed by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees as insurance and as a guarantee throughout the world. This deserves to be recognised in any way, especially since this organization was created after 1956. During the refugee flood after the tragedy of 1956, which sought refuge from Hungary in the West, the UN has used very powerful means to ensure that political refugees really find homes and shelters all over the world. In this sense, it is to be welcomed that we promote and support the work of this office. Of course, we are pleased that both in numbers and in terms of work, the UN office here is growing territorially. We are particularly pleased that hundreds of Hungarian workers are expanding the activities of this office. This is finally a significant and real step in creating jobs. In this sense, we particularly welcome this. However, the current migration crisis may provide us with an opportunity to briefly reflect on the wrong approach to international organisations and thus also to the UN, to say the least. In many cases in recent months, we have felt that the great international organisations, including the United Nations, have been stuck somewhere a few years, a few decades, and have not been able to see the essence of this new wave of migration and to make certain distinctions, as we are dealing with a very different type of crisis in the current migration crisis than in the refugee wave of 1956, which has so many times been brought forward as a parallel. [[18.20]] At the time, there was a clear political motive and political persecution, which forced so many people to leave Hungary. However, political migration is undoubtedly present in the current migration crisis, but at the same time economic migration is present, and we believe that it is mostly present. This diversity is very worth doing, because it is the only way we can deal with this issue properly. If we do not do so, then, of course, all the measures that international organisations want to take will fail. This migration crisis has also revealed the presence of an analysis and a lack of diagnosis in large international organisations, as well as a lack of concept. There is no clear analysis, because we could see precisely that Europe is under certain migratory pressure, and we could see precisely that there is an explosion in the neighbourhood of Europe in societies that have been constantly destabilised by Western European countries with the help of the United States of America, and that the UN has failed to draw attention to the fact that this pressure is on Europe, this explosion will occur. This kind of work could have been prevented by proper preparation and analysis, and a kind of concept could have been developed in terms of what to do with the flow of refugees, migration, and how to deal with it, but not only manage it, but solve the problem by its roots. And in which the UN could still play a very serious role, it is that, with regard to the members of the organisation, who are yet parties to the treaty, they have signed the UN's founding documents, documents, certain obligations, and they have taken on account of certain obligations for themselves, but we see that the responsibility of these countries, which are members of the UN, cannot be called to account or even put at the centre of the debate. As long as we do not talk about responsibility, we do not talk about the responsibility of certain UN Member States in the fact that this type of refugee crisis, this migration crisis, has emerged and has come to light, and we will not be able to find a solution to this issue, but we need to limit ourselves to its treatment. In this sense, the UN is a very important forum to identify those who are responsible for this migration crisis, and in this sense we are looking for solutions to the problem at the root of the problem. It is quite clear that the migration crisis must not be dealt with in Europe where it comes from, but in the country of birth of these people, in their country of origin. Migration will not be over until this huge wave of migration is over until we can create stable conditions both in political, economic and social terms in those countries which, unfortunately, have been at the forefront of destabilising certain Western countries. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-131	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I declare that Mr László Varju has withdrawn his intention to speak. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Mikola István State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. István Mikola: Not now.]] Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react now. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The 15th amendment to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Rome of 4 November 1950 follows a series of amendments. General debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol until closure. The submission was made in T/6403. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First of all, I'd like to give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State. Now we'll wait for Secretary of State to arrive. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering a moment's recess until Mr. Secretary returns, and in his absence, we won't begin to discuss the agenda. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Secretary of State has arrived. We'll get back to work. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-06-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you for your patience. I myself have been waiting for several hours for this speech, but I apologise for the sudden end of the previous item on the agenda. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to Hungary, on 5 November 1992 the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms entered into force in Rome, dated 4 November 1950. The Human Rights Convention currently has 14 protocols in force. The statement adopted at the 2012 Brighton Conference identified as a task the preparation of a protocol on further issues requiring amendment of the Convention in relation to the reduction of the burden of the European Court of Human Rights. This is how the 15th protocol amending the Convention was put on the agenda, with the aim and essence of making the work of the court more effective. The basic architecture of the Convention remains unchanged. The Protocol also confirms that it is primarily the obligation of the Contracting States to enforce the rights and obligations set out in the Convention, and that they also have certain discretion as regards the content and limitation of those rights. The court therefore provides control and subsidiary protection, which means that the applicant can only appeal to Strasbourg if the domestic remedies have been exhausted, but the contracting States have an obligation to provide effective domestic remedies within national law. Each newly regulated subject matter is as follows. The last amendment established the term of office of the judges against the previous six years in nine years, while at the same time abolishing the possibility for judges to be re-elected. The current Protocol 15 sets the maximum age of choice at the age of 65. According to the rules in force, at the age of 70, the judge's mandate is terminated. Just a parentheses note: I do not know if you will remember the long debates when we were discussing whether it is possible to reduce the maximum age for the Hungarian judges. Well, this is happening at the Human Rights Court. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: No, it was barely increased.]] As regards the procedural order, under the current rules, the Chamber of First Instance of the Court of Justice has the right, in the case before it, where a new issue has been raised in the interpretation of the Convention or related protocols, or an assessment contrary to a decision previously taken, to pass on its decision to the Grand Chamber, so that the assessment of the application can be accelerated, because one degree of the two-stage procedure is omitted. However, this is currently limited by the fact that, in the event of opposition by the parties, the Chamber cannot exercise that right. [[18.30]] Protocol 15 abolishes this restrictive possibility. Applicants may apply to the court on the basis of the rules in force in the Convention, within six months of the date of notification of the final decision, after the national remedies have been exhausted. As a result of the development of information technology and communication tools, Protocol 15 reduces this deadline to four months. A further amendment will also help the process. At present, the court declares the individual application submitted inadmissible if it finds that the applicant has not suffered a significant disadvantage, unless respect for the human rights set out in the Convention and the related protocols requires consideration of the merits of the application. However, it is also a condition now that no case can be rejected on this basis, which has not been properly examined by a domestic court. The latter clause is abolished by Protocol 15 and thus eliminates the fact that the court should deal with a matter which is otherwise insignificant and which does not constitute a significant disadvantage even if the domestic procedure was not satisfactory for purely formal reasons. The purpose of accession is to reduce the increased burden on the court. It is also an important objective to speed up the procedures in Strasbourg. Protocol 15 was signed by 41 Member States out of 47 Member States of the Council of Europe, 21 of which were ratified. Hungary signed in early July, this time the Deputy Secretary-General of the Council of Europe praised the Hungarian accession. The bill serves to incorporate it into the internal legal order by publishing the protocol. On this basis, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2015-10-06-133	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. In the first round, keynote speakers will be held. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, the KDNP Group. Take your time, Congresswoman; the fact is that it was Mr Barándy's turn, but since he is not here, the Member's next.
u2015-10-06-134	I'm sorry I'm late. My order was different.
u2015-10-06-135	Yeah. That's why I told you there's been a change of order, but of course it's...
u2015-10-06-136	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, said part of the justification for this bill, and I do not wish to repeat it. It is a very important issue, a Roman convention in 1950, which sets out the fundamental principle of human rights, and, as we have heard, 14 additional protocols have since been drawn up. This is now the 15th, to which 41 member states of the Council of Europe have already joined. Hungary is also a member of the Council of Europe, we have signed this Protocol, and now the Parliament will decide whether or not to ratify this Protocol. Well, it's all about human rights here, and human rights are primarily about XX. In the second half of the century, they became the center of public thinking and public speaking. There is no policy area that does not affect human rights anywhere. This is a particularly delicate issue today, beyond normal conduct, when we live in times of special circumstances. This is particularly sharp, even if this protocol is not about the migrant crisis and not about the problems that are burning today. But the topic itself cannot leave us indifferent. For the Christian Democratic People's Party and for Christian Democratic thinking, the law as such is extremely important. It is important to remember that, in the rising mood of the system change, a good 25 years ago, it was said almost a hundred times a day that we now create a rule of law and live in a rule of law. This is considered important by the Christian Democratic People's Party, the Christian Democrats who worked at that time and since then, to live in a world where the law is clear, transparent, where no one should be afraid that the integrity of his life is threatened by unlawful conduct or conduct. And that includes the fact that the Christian Democratic People's Party follows nature law. It's also a right. Perhaps few people who are far away from our world know that the Christian church also has a very important church law. Therefore, all such questions are important to us. We have also examined this amendment of the law, we have taken part in its development through our expert, and we can wholeheartedly support it, because of the following. On the one hand, it is not just a question of law, but of duty; it is also an important aspect for us that rights and obligations are always balanced. While emphasising rights, it also imposes obligations on Member States. Now, back to the proposal, I would like to undertake only three articles in this brief speech to reflect on their content. Article 1 refers to the principle of subsidiarity and the doctrine of discretion. Both are very important in our legal order and in the state of law. The principle of subsidiarity is also an important principle in Christian thinking. It is about the fact that the facts in the given place, in the light of the circumstances, can make the right decision. This is also the case that national authorities are in principle in a better position to assess local needs and conditions than the international court. Article 2 is, as the Secretary of State pointed out in his exposé, about the age of judges and the fact that when a list of judges is presented to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it is necessary to reach the age of 65 or to be younger. This will clarify this always sensitive issue, the issue of age. Article 3 accelerates the process by reducing the proposals to be submitted from the previous 6 to 4 months. So, we can wholeheartedly support these changes, because we have a duty to do by joining them and we are likely to decide to ratify them. These are reasonable proposals, they make procedures more precise and serve the security of our legal order. So the Christian Democratic People's Party supports this amendment. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-06-137	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, who has asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-06-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and I apologize for interrupting the lead speakers in the main speaker's round. I would like to correct, indeed, as Mrs Hoffmann said, the age limit refers to the minimum age for marking. So you have to be under 65 to get elected. This means that obviously his mandate can be longer than 65 years. I note that the legislation on Hungarian constitutional judges is parallel to this, as Hungarian constitutional judges can judge over the age of 70 if they have been elected earlier. So there will be a similar regulation here too. That is how I wanted to refer to the Hungarian debates. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-06-139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the keynote speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-06-140	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. I see that you have already seen what I am about to speak about, which is why you have tried to prevent and take the lead in my speech. Well, I'm gonna put in what I want to say about that. Well, we're looking at a bill that we'd be very happy to have today, the 21st century. This issue should not be addressed in the 20th century on whether the signatory countries, which are members of the Council of Europe, actually have fundamental human rights. After all, we think and hope that these fundamental human rights in these countries are already excellent. [[18.40]] Since this convention was born in 1950 and accepted by the high parties, we would think that it was overdue. Obviously, there are some points that we no longer encounter in these countries, as we no longer encounter slavery and other categories of criminal law such as this, nor do we encounter such withdrawal of human dignity and human freedom. However, we have seen and proved to us over the last decade - I am thinking first of all about the government that started in Hungary in 2006 - how human rights can be trampled on a state level. After all, there was an era when the most fundamental human rights in Hungary were virtually non-existent. Such as freedom of expression or freedom of expression, the right to assembly or even the sudden, drastic regulation and restriction of the right of association; when it is necessary to enter a right to which citizens can turn. The principle of subsidiarity, which is precisely the essence of which is that these problems need to be resolved primarily in the given state, in this case in Hungary, has been mentioned several times on the part of the speakers before me. So Hungary is making its laws, and Hungary is trying to guarantee these human rights, and the other countries that signed this. If this does not work, the Convention will enter on an auxiliary basis and the legal remedies provided for in the Convention can be used in these cases, as many have done in relation to the events in 2006. And here it is obvious to mention the name of Ferenc Gyurcsány and the socialist government, which, for many years, has certainly trampled on the most fundamental human rights in Hungary, and has not even been able to restrict these human freedoms in a violent way. This is where we get to the point where this convention adopted in 1950 is constantly being amended, and protocols are being made on how the signatory states are amending it. At the moment, we are talking about the amendment of Protocol 15. We have talked here about the principle of subsidiarity, which goes into the preamble, and it already states that, which is an important principle, which I have already talked about. In addition, the original text is changed in several places. What are the changes in the first place? This is related to the proceedings of the Court of Human Rights, the operation of the court of human rights, the election of judges, and Protocol No 15 is amended on this subject. Secretary of State has already indicated age adjustment. Well, there's an opposite process going on here, just like in Hungary. In Hungary, we saw in the last cycle between 2010 and 14 that the governing party announced that the judges had to retire, as before, they had the opportunity to work until the age of 70. This has been changed by the government's presentation, in such a way that when judges reach their retirement age, they must leave. This was 62 years of age in a given year, so from one moment to the next, the compulsory retirement of judges was changed from 70 to 62 years; and here I stress the compulsory nature, not in an optional way, but in a compulsory manner, which was not otherwise required for other occupations, but only for pensions, not for obligations. And at the moment, it is apparent that judges in Hungary are valued, at least the current majority of the government, that they are 62 years old and, later on, they are not able to work and can not do good work. That's probably why they wanted to send them away. On the other hand, the situation in the international court is quite different, as we can see that the new rule calls them under 65 years of age. So they must be under 65 at the time when the Assembly of Parliament, the Assembly of the European Parliament, decides which of the three candidates will be elected. And since the new rule provides for nine years of appointment, that means that if someone is just a few days before the age of 65, then if we add nine more years to that, he can fill that position until he is 74 years old. So they're trying to appreciate exactly the opposite process, the expertise, the life experience that these judges have acquired in their work, in their previous lives, and that they can enforce in the human rights courts for the sake of human rights. I would think it would work the same way in Hungary. It was not by accident that the previous legislation, which gave us the opportunity, but obviously the political interest at the moment drew this from Fidesz, and that is why this option had to be narrowed down. So this is not the case here, from 65 to virtually 74 years old, the previous regulation has, by the way, maximized the time they could work for 70 years. This was stated in Article 23 (2) that the term of office of the Judges will expire at the age of 70. The current Article 15 repeals this and there is now no time limit on how long they can fill the position. An important change is even when this Article 15 decides what this time frame, which allows for this extraordinary, special remedy, is the possibility of turning to the European human rights court. In this change of regulation, I sense some danger and risk. And I'm gonna tell you, and I'm gonna explain why. I think that in the territory of the European Union and of all the countries that have signed the Convention, it is more fashionable to use this opportunity, since the court very often finds a mistake in the justice system of the States that have signed the contract or in the functioning of the State, which will indeed be compensation to the State, which must be paid to its citizen or, perhaps, to the citizen of another country. It was quite common, and lawyers were used primarily to the time limits for bringing this extraordinary remedy to Strasbourg. It's normal, it's been six months. This was sufficient to obtain all documents, to study them, and to prepare this submission, which, fortunately for those who do not know, I will tell them, everyone is entitled to submit in their own language. So it doesn't have to be translated into English or French, but everyone can submit it in their own language, and they will also receive the decisions in this language. I think that, in itself, the reduction of this extraordinary remedy option to four months would not be a big problem, because what we can collect in six months we can collect in four months. There are many of us practicing lawyers, former practicing lawyers here among the Members of Parliament, even if we are not here now, there are a lot of people present, as I see it, but we know what it means, it is important for a lawyer to have plenty of time. Well, there is a reduction here, and I think that at the transitional time, those who do not know about this, do not follow, do not read the professional articles related to this, will have to say that one or two customers will miss this deadline. After all, when it is submitted in the fifth or sixth month, and they get the answer that they have unfortunately run out of deadline, because the four months are long over... However, I also have to say, for the sake of fairness, that the new agreement provides an appropriate deadline for entry into force here, since, on the one hand, this protocol must be signed by all the Member States. If the protocols have been signed, ratified, then it will give a time limit of three months in general. [[18.50]] Paragraph 4 of the Act states that the term of office of the Judges expires at the age of 70. The current Article 15 repeals this and there is now no time limit on how long they can fill the position. An important change is even when this Article 15 decides what this time frame, which allows for this extraordinary, special remedy, is the possibility of turning to the European human rights court. In this change of regulation, I sense some danger and risk. And I'm gonna tell you, and I'm gonna explain why. I think that in the territory of the European Union and of all the countries that have signed the Convention, it is more fashionable to use this opportunity, since the court very often finds a mistake in the justice system of the States that have signed the contract or in the functioning of the State, which will indeed be compensation to the State, which must be paid to its citizen or, perhaps, to the citizen of another country. It was quite common, and lawyers were used primarily to the time limits for bringing this extraordinary remedy to Strasbourg. It's normal, it's been six months. This was sufficient to obtain all documents, to study them, and to prepare this submission, which, fortunately for those who do not know, I will tell them, everyone is entitled to submit in their own language. So it doesn't have to be translated into English or French, but everyone can submit it in their own language, and they will also receive the decisions in this language. I think that, in itself, the reduction of this extraordinary remedy option to four months would not be a big problem, because what we can collect in six months we can collect in four months. There are many of us practicing lawyers, former practicing lawyers here among the Members of Parliament, even if we are not here now, there are a lot of people present, as I see it, but we know what it means, it is important for a lawyer to have plenty of time. Well, there is a reduction here, and I think that at the transitional time, those who do not know about this, do not follow, do not read the professional articles related to this, will have to say that one or two customers will miss this deadline. After all, when it is submitted in the fifth or sixth month, and they get the answer that they have unfortunately run out of deadline, because the four months are long over... However, I also have to say, for the sake of fairness, that the new agreement provides an appropriate deadline for entry into force here, since, on the one hand, this protocol must be signed by all the Member States. If the protocols have been signed, ratified, then it will give a time limit of three months in general. 1.50 p.m. In this case, however, the deadline for entry into force is 6 months, so the deadline will be extended and it will be practically only applicable in cases where the last final decision has been taken in the Member State at the time of entry into force, against which a final decision will be taken within 4 months, i.e. after that. So what had been decided before will be the six-month deadline. So from this point of view, I think that the transition period will be sufficient, and during the time that is open for entry into force, I think that the lawyer society will learn the new rule, and that will no longer be a particular problem. The other amendments are of a technical nature in particular, and there are still changes to the entry into force that require specific rules, but are also acceptable. Thus, in the case of entry into force, we can say that Article 15 is consistent and is careful about the entry into force of the new legislation and Article 15. I think it is in everyone's interest that human rights, the most fundamental human rights in Europe, can be applied in all countries; therefore, when we amend the original 1950 Convention with one of these new conventions, they are generally eligible by the Member States. It would not be eligible if these rights, which have so far been mentioned, would be limited or restricted in the field of human rights enforcement. Obviously, we cannot agree with them in any way, but as long as these changes are forward-looking, as stated in the 15th Convention, I think that they are eligible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-06-142	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to point out that the MSZP fraction supports the adoption of this proposal, together with our disagreement with Mr State Secretary on the spirit of his presentation and on the state of human rights in Hungary. So what we have here in Protocol No 15, is the reduction of 6 months to 4 months or the establishment of a more structured operation in court, which, I think, is a product of life, so it's acceptable. However, what Mr Secretary of State stressed in his introduction is that it is only possible to turn to Strasbourg if there is a significant disadvantage - so what is the significant disadvantage? The problem of a man's life, or, say, a lot of people's downsides? I'll give you an example. Damage to the fundamental human right to information in Hungary. The operation of the Hungarian Telegram Office is currently so scandalous that, for example, it was an interim election, which was recently called the XIII. in the district of Angyalföld, and the candidate of the MSZP reached 60 percent, the MTI forgot to publish a statement on this. The Hungarian Telegram Office, which operates on public funds, has not provided any information. Or that means presenting the opinion of the international press in Hungary: Die Presse published a rather long analysis of Viktor Orbán and turned him completely aside. The critical elements have not been brought and one or two positive elements have been labelled. So when the government does not guarantee the fundamental human right to information from public money, I think that human rights are being violated in Hungary. I think in 1969 Levente Szörényi got his very important song for the 20-year anniversary of the New York Declaration of Human Rights in 1949, one of the key lines - and this may be as touching to KDNP as to me - that the power of love is not the love of power. It would be good if this fundamental Christian belief, which seeks to enforce the power of love, had a little more criticism of the evident love of power, and when we accept that Hungary's Fundamental Law cannot be avoided, because otherwise the functioning of the state would not be guaranteed, for example, they would think of the wrong changes that have occurred with the adoption of the Fundamental Law, which has reduced, for example, the guarantees of social rights in Hungary. The wording in the Hungarian Fundamental Law is far from the usual European guarantees in this respect, such as social guarantees. Not being a lawyer, I just wanted to sum up a few political experiences on this agenda, stressing the importance of enforcing human rights, not only in the examples mentioned so far, but also in the humane treatment of refugees, for example, the enforcement of their human rights. Respect for human dignity, taking account of it in exceptional circumstances, I think, is first of all. Therefore, it cannot be an exceptional situation - at any border post - where this could be damaged, and in particular not by the declarations of the practitioners of power. I believe that police officers on the ground want to act as humanely as possible, but when Viktor Orbán's TEK appears, and starting with foreign journalists, the heat storms and beating everyone up indiscriminately, there may be a need for a little further training on human rights, as Rózsa Hoffmann said, with a sense of commitment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-06-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2015-10-06-144	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. I just want to react briefly, because I have already spoken. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Gyüre, that I do not think that the parallel you drew between the judges of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and the judges of the Hungarian judges working in the Hungarian court organisation is correct, because they are not their legal status, but the legal status of constitutional judges. Under the Fundamental Law, members of the ordinary court may be appointed not earlier than 30 years of age and shall be appointed for an indefinite period after a period of three years. And here we are talking about a mandate that specifically covers a defined period of nine years. There is, therefore, a great difference between careers, judges who choose this career, and judges who are candidates for such judicial bodies, since in these cases, such as the European Union Court of Justice in Luxembourg or the Court of Human Rights or even the International Criminal Court in Hague, they elect or designate for a limited period of 6, 9 years or more. [[19.00]] On the other hand, if ordinary judges do not make a mistake to say so, if they do not make a mistake in such a way as to jeopardise their legal status, they will have the opportunity to conduct judicial activities from the age of 30 to the age of retirement. Thus, the whole different situation, the term of office of ordinary judges, because of their unalterability, is not marked for a certain time, as I have said, and the judicial mandate of such judicial bodies is another matter. I am sorry that what I said was ambiguous, and I have also corrected that, in our internal political debates, the example in Strasbourg can be compared with the Constitutional Court, because according to the Constitutional Court law, someone can be elected a constitutional judge at least 45 years of age and can be elected up to 70 years of age. Our debates began when the Parliament decided that the mandate of the Constitutional Court would not cease by the age of 70, but that it would fill its 12-year term of office. The regulation is similar in the Strasbourg court, only where, as we have just discussed, he must be designated until the age of 65 and he can complete his nine-year term of office. So it's more of a parallel, rather than a regular judge. Like I said, it's a life-style... And it's very right, every country applies that there's an upper limit of age, a judicial maximum age. I do not want to quote the whole debate, but we have given examples of 60 years old, 65 years old or even 70 years old, so there are all kinds of age limits, and finally the Parliament decided to gradually reduce the legal age from 70 to 65 years. Mr President, thank you very much for supporting the bill, and I would also like to ask you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2015-10-06-145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is T/6399 on the publication of the Statute establishing the European Space Agency. Proposal T/6400 on the publication of the Agreement between the States Parties to the Statute establishing a European Space Agency and the European Space Agency on the protection and exchange of classified information. Bill No. 1 and the T/6402 on the publication of a declaration by individual European governments on the use of Ariane, Vega and Soyuz launchers from the Guyana Space Centre. The joint general debate on the legislative proposal No 1 until closure. First, I give the floor to Mr. Ákos Kara, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-06-146	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian government opened a new chapter in the history of domestic innovation by signing the agreement on the accession of Hungary to the European Space Agency on 24 February this year. Accession is a joyful and important event, we have received a lot of positive feedback. It brings great benefits to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, research institutes and universities dealing with research and development, at least that is what we hope and expect from accession. The Hungarian ingenious nation. Domestic innovation is world-famous. In virtually every sector, we could name the success of Hungarian inventors, researchers and companies for a long time. Space activity is no exception. Many of you may not know, but now more than fifty of the world-class companies related to the space industry, university and academic research institutes operating in Hungary, and you know that Hungarians designed the onboard central computer of a space probe landing unit, and this contributed to the fact that last November we managed to land on the surface of a comet with a man-made device. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, space activity is not just about exploring alien celestial bodies and scientific research. It can be said without exaggeration that the space industry has become part of our daily lives, and its importance is increasing. We communicate and navigate with satellites, observations in space help us, for example, in agricultural production, in the prevention and control of disasters, but the line could still be classified. Ladies and gentlemen, Space has therefore become the industry with the highest technical knowledge and innovation. However, in this industry, real success can only be achieved through appropriate coordination of efforts. Organisations and agencies around the world are responsible for this. The European Space Agency is also guided by this goal. Hungary was the 22nd member country, and Estonia has joined since then, so it now combines the knowledge and innovation of twenty-three member states with outstanding high-tech developments in its programmes. These programmes are partly scientific in nature, partly industrial developments that can be used in everyday life, as I just referred to. Ladies and Gentlemen, With Hungary's accession, however, this gate opened up to us. Hungarian companies can now participate in world-class research, technological and industrial development of the space agency. With this, Hungarian companies and research institutes in the region will be given a unique and non-replaceable opportunity to participate in European innovation and to shape it, based on the Hungarian successes so far. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought that I would like to share these with you in my first speech, and, of course, on the basis of your suggestions and questions, I would be happy to give you specific figures, amounts in connection with the accession and other aspects, if you would like. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-06-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-06-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The European Space Agency is an intergovernmental organisation dealing with the exploration and use of space. It is up to the European Space Agency to develop and implement European space research programmes. It works closely with space industry organisations outside Europe. However, cooperation is not new, and the agreement dates back to 1975. The European Space Agency was created by the merger of the European Space Research Organisation and the European Organisation for the Development of Portable Missiles. Outside Hungary, as Mr. State Secretary said, there are twenty-two European countries, of which Romania joined in 2011 and Estonia in 2015. Hungary became a full member of the European Space Agency on 24 February 2015. It should be mentioned that Canada is involved in some projects under previous cooperation agreements. The headquarters of the European Space Agency are located in Paris, where the main guidelines are defined and the programmes and missions are decided. Taking into account all Member States, more than 2,000 employees - scientists, engineers, IT professionals and administrative staff - are currently working in the European Space Agency. The Statute establishing a European Space Agency, which we are discussing, sets out the conditions for the operation of the Space Agency. Hungary has been participating in various scientific and innovation programmes since 1991 as a cooperating State of the European Space Agency. In recent years, the Government has sought to strengthen this cooperation. Within the framework of the accession process, space agency staff assessed the state and potential development potential of the Hungarian space sector in 2014. According to our data, there are currently at least 41 space-related companies, university and academic research institutes in Hungary, which all represent world class and are able to develop, expand and participate in the space agency's programmes. Hungary became a full member of the European Space Agency with the accession agreement signed in Budapest on 24 February 2015 at the Palace of Arts. By becoming a full member, Hungary can join the European Space Agency's scientific, educational and industrial programmes more widely than ever. The benefits of membership will enable high-tech Hungarian space companies and research institutes to maintain their current leading position in the region. [[19.10]] High value added companies and workshops can increase the competitiveness of the sector and Hungary as a whole by further dynamic development. The strengthening of market capacity can also occur in a number of related industries. The involvement of universities can make technical higher education more modern. Increasing opportunities can lead to new jobs and help keep the highly qualified technical intellectuals at home. I therefore think it is worth supporting the T/6399 on the publication of the Statute establishing a European Space Agency. Bill No. 1. T/6400 is related to, or derives from, T/6400. Proposal for the publication of an agreement between the States Parties to the Statute and the Space Agency on the protection and exchange of classified information, as it is important for the space agency, the Member States and scientific and industrial actors to have classified information integrity and protection. T/6402. The proposal contains a framework for the development of means of delivery and its conditionality. The launcher declaration clarifies the tasks and powers and the extent to which operators are responsible for any damage. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposals before us are closely interrelated, helping to promote international recognition, further development of Hungarian science, Hungarian space research, and to strengthen the marketability of domestic players in the sector, so I ask my fellow Members to support them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-149	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-10-06-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP faction welcomes Hungary's accession to the European Space Agency as a full member. I would like to add that, as a cooperating member, Hungary has been a member since 2003 and has been a cooperating State of the European Space Agency, so it has been involved in the programmes of the European Space Agency. That was the precedent of the impressive, to say the professional achievement, which was also reported by the Secretary of State. However, I would like to ask what kind of milestone the 2014 summary can ultimately be considered. So how do you evaluate Hungary's participation in the European Space Agency from 2003 and its results? Unfortunately, it is not clear from the presentation - which I stress, the MSZP fraction supports - how much Hungary will contribute to the costs of the activity and programmes. Is there a taxing part of this? Is there a planned part of joining voluntary programmes? In view of the fact that Hungary is becoming a full party, it is also obliged to pay a one-time entry fee in relation to the current value of the space agency's assets. The size of this single entry fee shall be determined by the Council, composed of representatives of the Member States, with a majority of two-thirds of the votes of all Member States. Have there been negotiations or information from the government on the extent to which this one-off contribution will be, in essence, this entry fee? I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State that, in addition to the fact that, under the Statute, when the contract is concluded, the space agency favours the industry and organisations of the Member States, as well as the voluntary programmes, the industry and organisations of the participating countries must give priority to what they calculate, what specific national economic benefits it brings, full participation in Hungary. Fortunately, the basic objectives of the operation of the space agency are also reflected in the proposal. The purpose of the Space Agency is to ensure and promote cooperation between European states in space exploration, space technology and space applications solely for peaceful purposes, with the aim of using them for scientific purposes and operational systems - i.e. essentially commercial benefits - through the following aspects: the development and implementation of a long-term European space policy, finally the three existing space powers, the United States of America, Russia and China, are European, I almost said, united states; but the European Union is already operating as a united states in this regard, the European Space Agency represents, in essence, a fairly high level of integration in this special field, which is very right, and this shows that, after all, the old Europe has some pioneering achievements that Hungary can now catch up with as a full member if it is worth it. To do this, I would like to get a clue as to how much it is worth, although they say that participation in the top of knowledge and knowledge is really priceless, because this is a way to gain competitive advantages that can significantly exceed the usual assembly-industrial added value of Hungary's added value. This accession contradicts, in essence, what your Prime Minister proclaims that a work-based society must be built in Hungary. It's the 19th. It was the slogan of the industrial revolution of the 20th century, when physical work enabled the production of greater economic value. CHAPTER XXI In the first century, knowledge can produce greater value, so I would be more pleased if Hungary wanted to build a knowledge-based society. Of course, I know that you wanted to express that everyone had to work, because the historical merit of capitalism is that it makes busyism general, so it motivates people, free citizens, to be busy, because then they can move forward. I'm telling the expert in the back row that he must remember where to read these lines; it's basic philosophical work, of course. Returning to the European Space Agency and the Information Protection clause, of course, these are eligible. We believe that this has been developed with due care at the level of the European Space Agency. At the same time, hearing the wiretap scandals of the past period, that there are organisations that even listen to the German Chancellor via his own phone, there is a question as to how effective this information protection can be and what is the point at all. It may also make sense for a global cooperation, which is, of course, expressed in this agreement, I am thinking of the inclusion of the Soyuz launcher rockets, so the eastern half of the world, where Hungary now opens in the spirit of Eastern opening, has already been included in the declaration level of the launcher agreement. Finally, I would like to express my wish, my group's wish, to further strengthen Hungary's participation through the agreement and to strengthen Hungarian knowledge, which has achieved very, very good results in the field of space technology. [[19.20]] In this respect, I would also like the government to make a certain reporting or accounting commitment, given that there is a rather significant entry fee here, which is public money; there is also a non-negligible membership fee, which is also public money, so that in this context at least every two years it gives Parliament an account of the results of Hungary's full membership, how what has been done so far in the context of associated membership has developed and how this public money is used. So I would like, in this sense - at least at the level of a commitment - to be complemented by this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-06-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-06-152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, there are three closely interlinked legislative proposals in this Parliament, because, by the looks of it, I have listened to a large number of interested parties and speeches so far, so this is not a debate, it is a negotiation. These three legislative proposals include key words for me, such as knowledge, science, high technology, research, innovation, high technology, job creation and, of course, participation in international organisations. This is all a subject that is important to the Christian Democratic People's Party, personally, and that is why I have undertaken to comment on the subject. Even as an introduction, I am obliged to mention that I do not fully understand Mr István Józsa, who confronted each other with obvious intentions of work and knowledge. If you were right, Congressman, it would mean that, say, a teacher, an engineer or a politician doesn't work. [[Dr. István Józsa: I didn't say that. It's the other way around.]] 'Cause he's not working with his hands, he's working with his knowledge. This confrontation is very inappropriate, very damaging, and Prime Minister has never interpreted the work as working in dirty overalls somewhere in an oily room, and that's all he means by work, but yes, spiritual work is XX. CHAPTER 1 2 - TOTAL The typical work of the century, along with the manual workflow that has been carried out with physical force since the world began, is the only way to do it. I was forced to respond to that. Now, if I may, I will go back to the legislative proposals on which the two State Secretarys-General before me and Mónika Bartos, represented exactly what we are talking about here: a space agency and not a news agency, as you can sometimes hear; the accession to the European Space Agency, which is a 40-year-old organisation in Paris and has 22-23 members. Its aim is to carry out the highest technology, space technology and space research with a European centre, and our connection to this will give Hungarian science, researchers and universities the opportunity to participate in processes that, due to their basic cost-intensiveness, would be less possible for a single country or would not be possible at all. This European Space Agency, which is short-handed to ESA, is therefore designed to maintain and strengthen the competitiveness of the European space industry. In addition, it is responsible for bringing programmes to life that would be too expensive or simply impossible for a single state, but developed jointly, economies of scale and can be used well. The organisation therefore offers Hungary an exceptional opportunity, which is a significant advantage for countries with less economic performance or a smaller population, and therefore our accession is absolutely justified. Because of the values listed in my introduction, it is natural for the Christian Democratic People's Party to support this. The contribution paid to ESA by the Member State shall be made available to undertakings in the Member State in a very high proportion. This is how job creation comes into this whole process and process of thought, which is also a priority for our party alliance. Of course, in order to achieve this reimbursement, an integration programme within the organisation is necessary. As a key element of this, the new accession country, together with ESA, will set up a task force for catching up and this group will be responsible for the launch of targeted proposals, specifically for Hungarian market participants and research sites. We have also heard, I can only repeat, that nearly 50 small and medium-sized enterprises have already participated in programmes that belong to ESA in some form. The catch-up task force can also help the new Member State to participate in the optional programmes that are best suited to it, and it is, of course, useful for the appropriate orientation if the Member State has its own space strategy. Our country has recognised that the recovery of the economy can be achieved through investments that allow local small and medium-sized enterprises to expand their workforce, create new jobs, and do so by keeping highly qualified professionals at home, creating new jobs for them. One of the tools for this is our connection to ESA. As a result of this recognition, Hungary's accession to ESA was decided in autumn 2014, and on 24 February this year the parties signed the Accession Agreement, and we are now in the process of ratification. As I said, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports all three amendments. I would like to summarise the reasons for these. On the one hand, as is important everywhere in industrialised countries, the long-term range of services created as a result of space activity must also have a prominent role in Hungary. For example, location, broadcasting, satellite communications, weather forecasting, climate change and disaster protection through satellite systems, space applications. The importance of joining ESA can be summarised as follows. The European Space Agency is of paramount importance for achieving our objectives, as it is an international organisation for the implementation of specific space technology and space programmes. Our accession is thus equivalent to industrial cooperation with more than 20 industrialised countries to perform specific high-tech tasks. The positive effects of this can even be seen in a number of areas in the short term. The impact of joining ESA can be grasped in the following ways. Thanks to our membership, we have easier and more efficient access to the vital systems provided by space applications. In addition to the strengthening of sector-specific SMEs, the increasing number of workers in the space industry, including the increase in budget revenues, is expected due to the growing sources of funding. At the same time, thanks to the resources invested in space technology, our country's industrial competitiveness is increasing, which affects both our research institutes and, not least, our universities, which are important think tanks for innovation, research and experimentation, as we know. [[19.30]] It is important to face the question of what will ensure that the contribution paid to ESA will be returned as soon as possible. Following the adoption of the three legislative proposals, with the completion of the ratification process, the mandatory programmes of the ESA proposals will be made available, and we have already developed a separate Hungary-specific catch-up programme, including the continuously open tender for Hungarian businesses and research sites only. The aim of the catching-up programme is to ensure that the geographical reimbursement principle is effectively applied for by Hungarian industrial operators, i.e. SMEs, universities and research institutes successfully re-enlist as much as possible of the membership fee paid by Hungary. We also propose to the Honourable Parliament the support and adoption of the three legislative proposals. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-06-153	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Egyed, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-06-154	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I will not reveal a great secret that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is like the 21st. Party of the century... [[Dr. István Józsa laughs.]] I am glad that my colleague, Józsa, likes it. I will not reveal a great secret, Jobbik will support the presentation, and we consider it very important that Hungary gives all the help in research and development and the expansion of Hungarian knowledge to scientists, to young Hungarians who will be able to complete their knowledge on this course. However, I would like the Secretary of State, who, I think, will answer the questions raised here, to address two things in his reply. On the one hand, Hungary has to pay a one-time accession fee here, and I would like these amounts to be quantified in any case between Parliament's walls, because we are talking about public money here, and I believe that it is not just for Members of Parliament, but for all Hungarian tax-paying citizens, that the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian government are investing in this activity from the paid tax forints of citizens. I would also like the Secretary of State to say now, by way of forints, of course, how much it will cost the Hungarian budget on an annual basis in terms of continuity. I believe that we must get answers to these questions and give answers to Hungarian citizens. I would therefore ask the honourable Secretary of State to do so. With regard to the coordination of European space programmes and the functioning of the European space programme, it is also proposed that the space agency not only wants to invest in R &amp; D here, but also, as I have removed from the proposal, resources for production. I do not know whether this is true here in the current situation in Europe, but perhaps, I think, the Secretary of State will also give an exhaustive answer to this, how the European Union and the European Space Agency stand in this area. However, I would like to ask you very important questions, which I found in the presentation. For example, the fact that the employees of the space agency are in some ways exempt. I would like the Secretary of State to explain what this exemption is, which, on the basis of the proposal, still exists after the end of employment, so this is, in effect, a minor immunity right, or I cannot now simply interpret what this is going to be, because it is not further explained. Another very important thing is that there is also one in the bill that if the agency establishes its own social care system, then the employees of the agency - and we trust that the agency will also have plenty of Hungarian citizens - will be exempt from paying social security. I would also like to get an answer from the Secretary of State on how you wish to reconcile this with the Hungarian legal order and the Hungarian laws. I believe that these are serious issues, assuming, of course, that the people who will go there, who will work for this agency and who are Hungarian citizens, are supposed to work for European salaries, how this will be compatible with the Hungarian legal order and the European Union legal order at all. I do not want to add any more to the word here at this evening's hour, and finally I have already told the Secretary of State, and I have also told my fellow Members that Jobbik will support this proposal. However, I would ask the Secretary of State to answer these few questions, which are acceptable and reassuring to everyone, because I think it is our duty to inform citizens, Hungarian citizens, about what we are spending their tax dollars on. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-06-156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very pleased that Mrs Rózsa Hoffmann, former Secretary of State for Education, agrees with me on the value-creating role of knowledge, but I am very sorry that you misunderstood my words, and I did not, by any chance, oppose these two. I was referring to the two-tones that your prime minister formulated the work-based society, and I think that was the wrong wording. The interpretation you gave my words is far from me. I believe that, in addition to Hungary joining the European Space Agency as a full member, this in itself, of course, opens up direct market opportunities for Hungarian businesses under the catch-up programme, or at least tries to clarify the framework of this. I think that this catch-up programme is a bad name, because there are areas where others have to catch up with the Hungarians, because we are the leader. The other issue is that the Hungarian Telegram Office, which I have been critical of at the previous item, does not report this because there are censors sitting there who are insensitive to this, so they do not know what is new in the world, a conservative government does not have to be sensitive to what is new in the world. I therefore consider it very important that the results of the technology in Hungary should be given greater emphasis in the public speech, even in Hungarian information, and that what may be done in a legally clarified form through full accession, which is the exploitation of the results of space research. Because if we look at some of these border areas, which do not belong specifically to any of the fields of science, space exploration, precisely because it is a target-oriented area, integrated them. Now I could refer to the results in the field of artificial intelligence or to the results of material technology that had the germs individually, space exploration was able to utilize, and then, let's say, the body of information technology. So what can be said briefly is that technological transfer can be of greater importance to Hungary. [[19.40]] So I would like to encourage the government from here, the plenum of Parliament, to attach a real and significant role to the value-creating capacity of knowledge and to organise the Hungarian intellectual potential. In other words, it should not be typical of the fact that in some cases money is extracted from the territory of higher education. You may remember that there was a year, I think, 2011-12, when the budget funding for higher education was reduced from 184 billion to 122 billion forints. These are two conflicting processes: on the one hand, we are besieging the sky - quite rightly, I support this, I think it is important - and on the other hand, the government is drawing money away from higher education, where the skulls who can achieve results in this could eventually grow. I am therefore very pleased that Hungary at least takes the path of integration in this narrow technical area. I believe that Hungary's future is along the lines of European integration, as opposed to Jobbik, who takes the Horthysta approach, who imagines this in a slightly different way; perhaps the XXIII. In the century, this is back in fashion, but now it is still less for modernization than more for the past. So I suggest that we be part of the European organic development that we may now have a door open to us with this full membership. I ask the government not to see this as a closed thing, consider this a first opportunity, and make proposals for the full modernisation of Hungary along with the wider use of the results of space research. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-06-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Ákos Kara, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-06-158	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, after not only this parliamentary debate or negotiation, but also as my fellow Members have mentioned in a good way the work of recent years, indeed, let us first thank all those who have helped us to get to this moment and point in recent years. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Józsa, with respect and affection, that if we are to be used here now, that if we are defined as conservative governments, this conservative government is a XXI. It was one of the most important innovation steps of the century and the future and the following century, which we were able to do in 2006 and 2007 with the accession this year. Success must also be shared with joy, and thank you very much to my fellow Members who speak in the colours of the various groups for their support for this proposal. Although we are working in a political field, it would be tempting to make a brief recall of the situation in higher education between the ideas and proven actions of the left-wing poster governments in relation to higher education, but I will not do so if my fellow Members do not resent it, because I think that joining the European Space Agency and the other two related legislative proposals will certainly require a more elevated approach. So in any way, I would like to summarize in this sense before answering the questions specifically, that participation in the programmes of the European Agency is clear to Hungary in our faith, so it is clear to the government that there is an increase in the attractiveness, competitiveness of domestic innovation, an increase in employment and the number of highly qualified workers in Hungary, and we hope that it will be possible to develop new marketable high-tech products, as has been the case so far. So we're planning for the long haul. And now let's see, I am trying to give you a concrete answer to the questions that you have rightly raised, so that we can all count on the taxpayers precisely, because we want to account for exactly what this good government programme costs. So I'd like to record the next thing here. According to the preliminary negotiations, Hungary contributes 0.63% of the total budget of the mandatory programmes to the functioning of the European Space Agency, i.e. a little more than EUR 5 million in 2016. As a new Member State, Hungary is indeed obliged to pay a one-off amount by which it obtains access to the European Space Agency's existing infrastructure, as has been said precisely by its pro-government and opposition colleagues. In the case of our country, this amount will amount to EUR 3.5 million in three years and, as appropriate, a third of this, which will be published annually. With regard to the budget, to see what is included in the 2016 budget or what will appear as budget expenditure in 2016, this is HUF 2 billion 351 million. This amount and the amounts communicated therefore serve the competitive advantage, as set out in Annex XXI. This could be an important pillar of the new industrial revolution of the 20th century, the promotion of digital economies and the hinterland of the digital economy. And the public is really important to us, and it is also important that we do not let the subject go now if it is out of the political field. I proposed to my colleagues, for example, in consultation with the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but otherwise we are looking forward to hearing the opinion of the research workshops and the communities expected to participate after the signing of the accession, that we hold joint forums in three places in the country, Debrecen, Budapest and Győr in December and January, where we can already talk about specific issues, and the part of their question that concerns the form in which this will take place, so in what form Hungarian businesses, research workshops, universities and research institutes will take part, and we will obviously be able to outline it in these professional discussions and discussions. It is important that they know, and it is good to be able to record that the first option for voluntary programmes will be opened to us in autumn 2016. We are also taking the same path as the 21 Member States that are next to us, so we are also taking the road as twenty-two participants or members, just like all the other Member States. What I think we can expect is what you have said, and this is what the Hungarian government is expecting: jobs, of course, we expect a proportionate role in economic growth, and obviously we expect more tax revenues in a proportionate sense. Once again, it is very important that this programme can be an important pillar of the digital Hungary programme announced by the government, obviously in conjunction with its proper weight and economic scale. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it was a question that was raised beyond the forint and the specific issues outside the euro, a kind of exemption - this term was used by my fellow Member - which is the usual international organisations, i.e. the exemption for workers there. There is nothing new about the relationship between the individual Member States and the Union. I would also like to say that, as far as I know, there will be no European Space Agency facility in Hungary at this time, so the comment or comment on this point is not relevant at this moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that I have answered all your specific questions and that we remember that it is an important step, a historic step, and even though we are talking about space activity, we are talking about how and how this can be done in everyday life, in economic development, in research institutes, in universities. [[19.50]] By the way, the three sites proposed by me will combine public participation, i.e. government participation, but university participation, i.e. the University of Debrecen, the Budapest University of Technology - if you can call it that for simplicity - and the active participation of the Győri Széchenyi István University for the MKIK, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and the former participants, the nearly fifty different participants mentioned by many. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-06-159	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Tamás Turgyán, an Armenian nationalist spokesperson for the post-municipal speech:.. The Memorial Day of the Martyrs of Arad. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-10-06-160	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not gonna fill the five minutes. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Who's to blame for the Hungarian fate? Do Hungarian souls have to be revolutionized at the foot of the gallows? These were the last sentences of Colonel William Lázár, Armenian, before his execution. Of the Arad martyrs, the also Armenian Lieutenant General Ernő Kiss proudly wore his Hungarians in the last moments. They lived as Armenians, acted as Hungarians, were born as Armenians and became martyrs as Hungarians. Because of their role in the 1848-49 War of Independence, they are both eternal role models of patriotism, Hungarian historical public thinking. 166 years later, with some paraphrase, we can borrow the words of Vilmos Lázár, asking who is responsible for the fate of the Armenians in Hungary now. The answer is difficult, because our common history provides many examples to justify that the Armenians have been involved in fate with Hungarians for centuries, enriched the Hungarian economy, culture, art, and helped civilization. One of the known and heartbreaking elements of this common past is the fact that two of the thirteen Arad martyrs were Armenians. We are bound by a shared past, even if the relationship between the two countries is at a low point today. For a century and a half, the relationship between Armenia and Hungary has been defined by mutual respect, the friendly compassion that can be based on the history of the two peoples together for hundreds of years. Let us say openly, this friendship is broken, bilateral relations are characterized by suspicion, a climate of distrust. This situation is detrimental to interstate relations, makes life difficult for people, families with dual identities, and causes irreversible wounds in the life of the Armenian diaspora, which respects Hungary as a home. This situation can no longer be maintained. On behalf of the Armenian ethnicity in Hungary, I also urge the restoration of Hungarian-Armenian relations and the development of cooperation between the two countries in all areas of life. The obligation of reconciliation, the historical and scientific context of historical grievances, can give us a chance to normalise diplomatic relations in the short term. It's in our best interest. We Hungarian Armenians also have a number of tasks in order to restore the relationship. This moral command, this moral obligation, is a message to us from the martyrs of Arad, including the representatives of Armenia. In addition to Vilmos Lázár and Ernő Kiss, more than 70 Armenian-born officers and 1200 soldiers participated in the Hungarian War of Independence. Only with them, our Armenian ancestors, the heroes of Arad complete Hungarian history, their lives and their deaths are eternal lessons for us. I'm bound by the memory of the martyrs. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-06-161	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Vocational training in healthcare" in a tight situation. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-10-06-162	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On 2 October 2015, last Friday, Ferenczi Sándor Medical Secondary School held a health education conference in Miskolc, where she hosted the cream of health training - if you like it and say so - that is, professional leaders and trainers, as well as at training places, including hospital staff, as well as teachers who were able to exchange experiences at the school, but what was most important was perhaps not only an exchange of experience, but also an assessment of the problems that currently exist in health training. It should be noted here that health training and awareness-raising are also particularly important because those nurses and health professionals who are involved in health training will later emerge from the students who provide the backbone of our health care. If you like, not only doctors, but without health professionals there is no Hungarian health care, and there is no one to treat patients. It is therefore particularly important that in such an area, although it seems highly professional and remote, we identify and respond to the right problems in such an area. Well, that was the purpose of this meeting, this specialized teaching conference, where the main findings were the following, which we recommend to the government's attention. These are the points where the government needs to take action, where health education, health training, must be renewed. Of course, there will also be criticisms of permanent innovation. So let us first consider what were the most important. The first is the chronic and continuous and now critical lack of human resources. For someone who knows health care, it's nothing new. It is now not only that there are few nurses, but unfortunately there are few students who are in medical training. In addition to the few professionals, of course, there are few instructors, so there are few people who deal with the otherwise declining number of students, but as the number of instructors is decreasing faster, the number of instructors is becoming more and less busy and the number of instructors who can train health professionals at any point in demonstration, hospitals, and in addition to sick beds, and the few instructors now threaten the whole operation of the system. In addition, the burden of training instructors in hospitals is quite obvious, as they do class work, and they also do mentorial, demonstrational work and also perform on-call tasks. So, basically, these workers stand next to the sickbed by standing next to them, and the students should be kept under constant supervision. By the way, there may be a critical level of vocational education staff, and therefore it may not even be available or yet guaranteed, but if there are no current rapid steps in the near future, there will be insufficient supply of vocational training. The other main problem - and Jobbik has already said in the Parliament - was that health training should be transferred to the Ministry of National Economy, although it would be logical that where health care is trained as a ward, it should belong to the State Secretary for Health - although Jobbik always wants an independent Ministry of Health - that is where vocational training should belong, because they know what is required of nurses, nurses, some of whom are also a instructor, and they know what kind of future workforce they want to focus on and what they want to focus on. By the way, Jobbik has repeatedly made this demand here in the House, so that is nothing new. There is also a problem with the fact that the system of vocational training has been reorganised too quickly and too actively in general. When it came to what this speed was, it was easy to measure it in only one: in almost every class who enrolled in the last four or five years, they received different qualifications each year with a different name. So it was basically a permanent, permanent change. By the way, it's going to affect us for the next few years. So practically not only the name of the school is constantly transformed, but also the training it provides is constantly changing, which makes transparency very difficult. On the other hand, it was also very important that money could be used to solve this problem, and once again we have come to what is one of the biggest health threats - and this was one of the messages of this conference - that, in any case, additional resources should be involved not only for the training staff, but also for the motivation of students and the sustainability of the system. This is what health professionals, people working in health education, would like to do. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[20.00]]
u2015-10-06-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, Member of the Jobbik Group, also came forward after the agenda. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-10-06-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The statistics of the Hungarian demographic decline in the Carpathian Basin show a shocking destruction. While 2 million 756 thousand Hungarians lived in the surrounding countries for a quarter of a century, it is now barely 2 million. The 10 percent decline per decade, the insufficient birth indicators, the epidemic assimilation, and emigration make the disappearance of Hungarians a real nightmare from all parts of the country. In Slovenia and Croatia, the number of Hungarians has dropped by one third since the change of regime, and by now there may not be 20,000. But the figures in the southern region are also shocking, as the ageing of the Hungarian community of 350,000 people in the last 25 years seems unstoppable, and in 10 years there will be no more 200,000 people. By 2025 Transylvania's Hungarian population, which is still one third of the population of Felvidék and Transcarpathia, has fallen to 600 thousand people, and by 2025 Transylvania's Hungarians will not have more than 1 million Hungarians with a population of 600 thousand souls. Typically, the number of Hungarians is increasing only in Austria, and it is also significant because of the emigration here. In the sporadic regions further away from the blocks, where half the Hungarians live, the situation is even more tragic than the ones outlined above. Today, this House discussed the proposal for a decision on the day of the Hungarian sporadic. Like the Memorial Day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms or Rákóczi Day, the governing parties have managed to use the already eligible noble idea for party policy purposes. Despite the fact that my fellow Member, Mr Szávay, proposed at the meeting of the Committee on National Inclusion last week that it would be more worthy to present the proposal either as a five-party initiative or on behalf of the Committee on National Inclusion. We are not surprised by the disregard of the better proposal. So much for how they see the system of national cooperation. But let this be a disgrace to the governing parties. Yesterday, the Csángós, today the sporadic, tomorrow the block hungarians torn by sarcasm, and the Hungarians of the truncated country the day after tomorrow. With a sense of the future devastating effect of the hell machine ticking deep in the demographic processes of the Carpathian Basin, we must say that we have no further retreat. Even though we demand rights, we have memorial days, because whoever read Wass Albert's immortal, cathartic novel, the Sword and the Scythe, knows precisely that the country belongs to the one who gives birth. And we'll run out, and our nation will fall apart as a liquid waste. But have no illusions for anyone, neither of those around us will have a grief tear, for Michael Vörösmarty was wrong. At this time, it is good to recall the words of Romanian liberal politician Brătianu in 1920 in the Bucharest Parliament, because we have to see that almost nothing has changed in 95 years. What did you say? We can't rest until the Hungarian people are completely destroyed economically and militaryly, because as long as Hungary has a spark of viability, we can't feel ourselves safe, the Romanian politician said. In this decision, if you look at the work of some domestic or transatlantic actors, the continuity is unbroken. We need to know that Trianon, who has performed sporadicism, has indeed been rewarded with a reward from a Europe so proud of his morality, for which, without regreting our own blood, we have protected them from the conquest of the Islamic crescent for 300 years. We have become a protective shield for Christian Europe, and we have suffered wounds that almost killed us. As a result of all this, while the XV. At the end of the century, at the age of Matthias, 80 percent of the population of the Carpathian Basin was Hungarian, until then this proportion was 18. At the beginning of the century, the ominous one fell to 40 percent. The thoughtful debauchery of Beneš decrees, the expulsion of Hungarians from the highlands, the dragging of the slave labour of the Sudeta region, the cruel, ax-scraping blood of the animalistic Maniu executioners, and the massacres of the southern partisans carried out by the solyva camp, the bestial Tito partisans, and all the horrors, and so many migrations or integrations have been made to ensure that this proportion is not improved. All this, of course, was compounded by the poor, traitorous submission to Romania's accession to the EU without any conditions. Hungarian foreign policy is often hard in words, but in fact powerless. That's why we shouldn't drag the sporadic matter into the swamp of party politics. God save the over-the-border, torn Hungarians! Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-06-165	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches following today's agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Thank you for your cooperation. [[Meeting ended at 8:05 p.m.]]
