u2015-05-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with a lot of love. The 28th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will help me. I also welcome the audience and the viewers of television. Dear Parliament, For the first time, István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP, asked for a pre-meeting address on the issue of health professionals. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Today, on the birthday of British nurse Florence Nightingale, we commemorate representatives of this profession worldwide. During the Crimean war, Nightingale experienced the horrors of the camp hospitals; he met with overloaded staff, scarce medical supplies, unqualified conditions. As a result of its awareness-raising activities, the British Government has taken effective action and in a short period of time the mortality rate has decreased from 42 percent to 2 percent. Fortunately, there is no war in Hungary today. However, with regard to health institutions, it is certain that immediate government intervention is needed. The fact that the health care system has not yet collapsed is merely fading because of the determination of its workers. We can't say there were no Nightingale in Hungary. The representatives of the professions have warned me for years, even decades, so surely this can't go on, it can't work forever, there has been a way, and there will still be. The government can't listen, doesn't listen. The government of the last few years has wiped out health care. Between 2010 and 2013, there was a real withdrawal of HUF 189 billion from health care, even though we spent on healthcare below the EU average in 2010. So we have come to the point that in our hospitals we have to deal with the same problems Nightingale had to deal with: overload, continuous lack of tools and medicines, destroyed facilities, time travel to the past. Currently, according to professional organizations, 26,000 nurses are missing from the system. It's an amazing overload. Anyone who is hospitalized in Hungary today may not be given the necessary attention. Proper care cannot be guaranteed despite the best intentions and sacrifice of nurses, because basic conditions are lacking. Destiny can't replace tools, medications, or the time needed for a patient. This is what happens, irresponsible toy with people's lives. The problem is, for example, senior elite politicians should not know that. They are receiving special care. You don't have to tell the nurses that there's no more bandages, they've never even heard that they're out of painkillers for the weekend. Living in this shell, you can easily believe that health care is working, that there are no big problems. Well, don't believe it, because it's not okay. Everyone now demands immediate in-depth action, not just the profession. Everyone who knows he won't have the money and a system of contacts for the special treatment of the elite. You can no longer spot the eyes of health workers with a few thousand forints. They learned from the 27 percent average wage increase a few years ago; the nurses hardly get it, because the average is drawn up by others' wages. Not to mention that previous wage increases have also lost their value, because the basic wages have not increased. After that, it is clear to everyone that the wage increase announced last week is not enough. This money has been owed to them for years, and unfortunately, this amount will not be enough to improve their situation to move forward. The salary of Hungarian nurses is also very low in international comparison. Almost all EU countries are ahead of us, and we are also failing Eastern Europe. Wait till everyone moves to the West? We cannot allow hospitals to pay forced leave at the end of the month because of the overtime they have completed, or that overtime is not officially cancelled. These are the tiresome overtime hours that keep the system working. Honest work comes with a decent salary. Today's collaboration with healthcare workers is exemplary. Organisations of different professions demonstrate together, since the goals are common. Well-functioning health care is in our best interests. Shame on the government that gives away tens and hundreds of billions to empty football stadiums, to rich people for tax relief, than to cure people. Finally, I would like to express my thanks and appreciation to the nurses for treating patients in these circumstances. I want strength and perseverance for every demonstration. I want you to know that the country is with them. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-05-12-2	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2015-05-12-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that on the day of the nurses and the rest of the year, everyone who knows the hospital conditions and sees how superhuman the activity a nurse has to do because he is dealing with sick people, because he not only has to take care of things from a medical point of view, but he has to support patients there often both spiritually and humanly... - it is therefore very right that we should think of them as often as possible, the more we acknowledge their work. This recognition may, on the one hand, represent symbolic recognition, either today or on the anniversary of the birth of Zsuzsa Kossuth, or on any other day when we place health workers at the centre of our attention, but if we are talking about government responsibilities and the adoption of the budget, then, of course, this respect, this appreciation must also be shown financially. This is why it was important for this government to take a break from the gap between 2006-2010, especially in health wages, since the evolution of health wages followed the average wage changes in the national economy until 2006, but in 2006 and especially in 2008 when the 13th month allowance was lost by public health workers. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Can be returned!]] , then permanently and to a very large extent, health pay has been cut off from the growth rate of other wages. That is why we had to touch this issue very quickly in 2010 and provide assistance. One of the most important things was to help the wages of the basic care workers, as we tried to improve their situation with an extra HUF 10 billion in two years, but it was equally important for the nurses mentioned by the Member to start the development of wages, and also obviously for doctors. For everyone since the change of regime, it is clear that the wages that doctors receive from hospitals, from the health system, are far from proportional to the work they do. This is not a one-year-old, not a five-year-old, not a ten-year-old, but 25, or it could actually be a 35-year-old problem in Hungary, which this government has started to remedy. Maintaining conciliation is a very important part of this. As you well know, Congressman, you have also read in the news that representatives of various organisations have visited the State Secretary Sombor in recent weeks. One of the main issues at the last meeting was overwork, overtime, where it was found that there were problems in some institutions, but they generally pay for these overtimes, only in different accounting systems. Therefore, representatives of health organisations and representatives of the State Secretariat have concluded that a method should be developed to account for overtime in three months' accounting periods and to pay the workers within 30 days. This could be an important and secure step forward for healthcare workers. You yourself made reference - and I think this is also important to say - to the fact that a wage development for healthcare workers started in 2012-2013, which meant an average 24 percent wage increase for 95,000 workers. This required about HUF 76 billion in additional resources, which the government provided for them. In the planning of the next year's budget, we also sought to continue this increase in wages for nurses, for 43,000 nurses; for those working in hospitals, even during the night shifts, they would have their basic share of mobile wages, thus guaranteeing a higher salary. [[9.10]] This will provide an additional source of approximately HUF 15 billion for healthcare workers. In addition to these 43,000 nurses, 17,000 doctors can benefit from this support. Similarly, it is important to keep residents, young specialists at home, and their increased financial appreciation. The government will continue to use additional resources in recent years and in the following year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-12-4	Mr Lajos Korózs, on behalf of the MSZP, spoke before the next agenda: the International Day of Nurses. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-5	Thank you very much. Dear House, As has been said here, today is the International Day of Nurses, but I think that this is a black Tuesday for nearly 100,000 health professionals. I had the opportunity to be there and listen to them at the National Association of Nurses a week and a half ago; not that I didn't know the state of health. You know, all the parliamentary parties were invited here, and there was only one party that didn't come: the Fidesz who governs. I think it's a message to people in health care. We have felt at this conference and at congress and, of course, here in the country that the situation of health workers is getting worse. Three quarters of nurses suffer from two or three musculoskeletal disorders due to continuous illness. That's what the experts at the convention told me. A nurse often treats 40 patients alone. The workers are overloaded, most of the inpatient care classes do not have rest rooms, nurses do not get protective and work clothes and hold on: I bring here data from the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, their average income is only HUF 97 thousand. I stress that their average income is 97,000 forints. This amount does not reach HUF 160,000 gross after 40 years worked. As a result, there is an increasing gap compared to other sectors. And I'm sure you've heard the latest research by Tarki: Hungary is under threat from unprecedented emigration. Dear Friends! I do not want to alarm you, but the financing of social security subsystems will be on the verge of collapse in a few years, if the emigration of active workers and people of active employment from the country is such a measure. Between 2010-12, when we look at statistical data, there has been a radical increase in migration potential; it has slightly decreased in 2013 and it has grown dynamically again in 14 years. Since last year, there has been a rise in the number of foreign job planners, and the proportion of emigrants who wish to emigrate shows the highest value in each indicator since 1990. There is a radical increase in the willingness to work in the short term, a radical increase in the willingness to work in the long term, and, compared to last year, my dear friends, the number of people willing to emigrate doubled in April. There has been no reduction, as I see it, in the migration of health workers over the past year. Thousands of people are now asking for a certificate from the Health Authorisation Office to work abroad. Ask him what kind of data they can produce. Most of the doctors migrated out of the country last year, 59 of them with GP qualifications. Anesthesiologists followed them, 53 left the country, 51 medical doctors. Among those leaving were 35 surgeons, 33 pediatricians, 22 obstetricians, 20 psychiatrists, 16 clinical oncologists and neurologists. 95 people have left since I gave in my interpellation two weeks ago. I stress that two weeks ago I submitted an interpellation, and since then 95 medical workers have left the country. And hold on, they're not just going to the West, they're going to Romania. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: Jesus!]] And here, their demands were made by health workers. Allow me to tell you now, because there is no man in Parliament to tell you what health professionals demand. In particular, they demand that a sectoral strategy be adopted to improve the living and working conditions of health professionals. Their second claim: they ask for the immediate introduction of the professional career model. Their third claim: they ask for the immediate start of the wage negotiation and the sector-neutral implementation. The fourth point is the increase in basic salary of HUF 50,000 per month in 2015. Point five: variable wages are requested to be counted according to the basic salary already settled. Sixth point: the workers are asking for support for Community transport. Seventh point: the workers are asking for the introduction of a cafeteria system. Eighth point: protective and work clothes, as well as work shoes for each worker. Nine: Nurses' hostels are set up everywhere. Ten: clarification of working powers. Eleven: a sectoral strategy for the eradication of shortages. Twelve: strengthening the representation of care in the structure of the State Secretariat for Health. And I'm going to add one more: the court has granted the Eger nurses the payoff of the cafeteria, and I'm asking the government to pay off every health worker immediately.
u2015-05-12-6	Once again, on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2015-05-12-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you for presenting these points. If he had been there at the time when the health professionals announced this, he would have seen that the Members - Zoltán Balogh, Chairman of the Chamber - were handed over to Secretary of State Gábor Sombor, and, of course, the Secretary of State Sombor responded to these points on the spot. Since then, representatives of the sector have visited several times, not only the working organisation, the Chamber's representatives, but everyone else in the State Secretariat for Health, as there is a continuous dialogue between interest organisations and health sector management. There was a meeting like this last week, and I just told you what the main topic was: especially the question of overtime. So what I'm saying is that these demands are fully known. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] The representatives of the government take part in these discussions and, in many cases, they themselves call them together. There was also a time when there was a unified consultation, each sector, and last week, for example, when representatives of all organisations were present together in our ministry. This part, I have to say, is going on all the time. At the same time, I can tell you what I told Congressman Tukacs yesterday. So I see that the Hungarian Socialist Party forgets very quickly. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] In many cases, I think it is inevitable that the Hungarian Socialist Party, which reduced the wages of healthcare workers by 8 percent, calls for a wage increase - otherwise it is legitimately done. [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP. Lajos Korózs: We've raised 50 percent! Fifty percent!]] When, in 2008, as I said to Congressman Ikotity, you permanently cut off the wages of healthcare workers from the average wage increase, somehow neither 12 points nor 1 point could the representatives of the MSZP be accepted. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Why don't you do a 50 percent raise too? Then talk to me.]] Then everyone in the Hungarian Socialist Party voted to reduce the wages of healthcare workers. We can remember that there was a roll call here in Parliament. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] and in this roll-call vote, the socialist MEPs here have all said yes to reducing the wages of those working in the health sector. When Member Ikotity talks about the people who work in health care, I can assume that he is well-intentioned, because when he has the opportunity, he is here to speak for those who work in health care. But in my socialist fellow Members, who, when the IMF dictated it, took away the wages of these people who closed OPNI. [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP.]] who, where appropriate, wanted to introduce a visit fee, hospital daily allowance [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Talk about what will happen!]] who wanted to turn the health system into private insurance. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: What did he say? It's a lie!]] who were able to privatize hospitals for HospInvest [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Who gave you a 50% wage increase? Who gave you the 13th month's salary?]] I think that the Socialist Party's concern is not very credible after that. I can accept this from other Members, but it is somewhat less acceptable from the OPNI closing, hospital closing socialist governments. [[9.20]] At the same time, the issue is important, and has been constantly important to the government since 2010. We have sought to involve new resources in health care so that we can cover wage increases, because there was a need for large amounts of resources. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Give me 50 percent raise too!]] A graduate health worker could earn a salary of HUF 41,000 if he had a higher education. In addition, it was important for us to improve working conditions, since in total 400 sites there was 500 billion HUF of health development. In the case of debt consolidation, you know, Congressman, that this has been... [[To Lajos Korózs:]] Of course, you can smile and pose for the photographers, but you can listen to what I say. So, in the case of debt consolidation, there will be a settlement of HUF 60 billion and state aid. This has been a roll of debt for years, not the last four or five years, but the hospitals have been rolling it for a very long time. But against surface treatments, we're trying to use a pervasive cure. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You have to give 50 percent, and then you can talk back!]] And to all hospitals, to pay these debts, to redeem them. The development of waiting lists can take place for the previous period, and the reduction of waiting lists for the last year, as in the first half of last year the waiting lists were reduced to HUF 1.5 billion in the order of 3 000, adding an additional HUF 1 billion in the summer. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: For a billion and a half, the Butcher doesn't bow down!]] This year or December-January, we spent an additional HUF 6 billion to reduce waiting lists. We hope that this will reduce the length of the waiting lists by more than ten thousand. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The exodus of doctors is indeed a big problem, in many other countries as well. Let me just say one number: while, four years ago, the number of doctors who had applied for a certificate to work abroad has fallen to 948. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: For whoever wanted has gone out!]] So there is also a downward trend. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Gőgös: 50 percent wage increase will allow you to talk. We gave them a 50 percent raise!]]
u2015-05-12-8	At the next speech before the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, on behalf of Jobbik, spoke with the title 'Health in a revolutionary atmosphere'. I will ask my fellow socialists not to argue here; when they are given the floor, speak. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! We've been dealing with the Nurse Spring for almost a month, and not a day goes by without hearing about it on the news, not a day goes by without someone speaking on this matter in Parliament. Until today, until today's demonstration, which begins at 17:00 in Heroes' Square, very little has been heard by the government. You could say that the government has skills problems and hearing problems. The government has not heard the wage demands, the wage problems that pressure health professionals and nurses among them. We're dealing with erratic overtime wages, almost under-wage wages in every sector. But the government has not heard of the shortcomings and challenges in the job situation, which are now, in effect, endangering the health of health workers. Thus, working conditions, both physical problems of jobs and psychological challenges, have serious and detrimental consequences for the daily lives of nurses. But the government didn't hear that there is a huge problem in the supply of supplies, as well as training. Ten thousand nurses are missing from the system at the moment, the average age of nurses is close to 50 years, and there is no student, but not only is there no student, but the instructor's staff is also worn out. But before we are biased and talking about the lack of the ability of the government, we can safely talk about the shortcomings in the capacity of left-wing politicians, MSZP and DK, although they chose not to hear. Left-wing politicians have plenty to account for the destruction of the hospital, the health damage that the victim - we can say in parentheses - has been done in accordance with their work. They were the ones who bled out Hungarian health care, who led the Hungarian health care where it is. What's happening now? Fidesz and the MSZP excuse each other, compete with each other, who has done nothing, who has done what, and who is trying to cover up the misguided policies with which health has come into this situation. On the other hand, Jobbik took an honest and credible approach to the problem and made a proposal for a decision with a minimum budgetary impact. In the proposal for a decision, Jobbik intends to reform the administrative side of the public administration and the case of nurses in such a way that it does not cost extra or extra costs. In three areas, we would concentrate on the proposals. The three areas: the restoration of the National Chief Nurse Institution, which would like to dissolve the human resources crisis, which prevails in this system, would like to create an independent Ministry of Health, but if the Ministry cannot be established, then within the State Secretariat there should be a nursing department that can deal with nurses in particular. In addition, it would like sectoral vocational training to be re-entered into health care and not to be dealt with by the Ministry of National Economy. These are all questions, all options that don't cost money. And as much as it bothers the MSZP, because they didn't raise it, or as much as it bothers the Fidest, that they didn't think about rationalization, Jobbik decided to do so, and that's what he's saying about 24-hour nurses. But today, there's no room for yelling anymore, no room for partying anymore. I ask everyone to forget party politics and go out to the demonstration starting at 5:00 p.m. to participate. [[Noise.]] and ensure our solidarity with the nurses. Today, for example, Bence Rétvári will have the opportunity to take off his jacket, take off his tie, and feel free to come out among the demonstrators in civilian form, and attend the procession that is gathered at 17:00 and departs for Arany János Street at 18:00. Today we have the opportunity to emphasize the voice of the demonstration so that everyone can speak, and everyone can hear it, so that the government can hear what health professionals demand, the left can finally remember, be able to remember what hospital destruction has been done, and the people and the government can finally know how solidarity the Jobbik is with nurses, and what they would like to do without costing this country, the budget, almost a penny. From here, I would like to ask the media to take advantage of all the good Hungarian citizens to participate and support the demands of health workers and to participate in the demonstration of the Heroes' field starting today at 17:00. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-10	On behalf of the government, I once again give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-05-12-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think the issue is more serious than the mood here has changed in the past few minutes. First of all, I think that the situation of health workers can only be helped by providing them with more resources. I do not agree with Jobbik's point of view that it is possible to provide substantial assistance without additional resources. This year, the total budget of the health sector increased by 6 percent, adding the HUF 60 billion that we can devote to reducing hospital debt. We hope that additional resources will be available in health care. These extra resources are the only way to achieve what has been achieved in the last five years in the case of graduate nurses, so that a graduate nurse can grow their earnings by 41,000 forints. Obviously, it would be good if we could say a multiple of this, but we do not choose the path that the socialists, who have raised salaries from credit, we strive to increase the country's economic performance by sector to educators, somewhat health workers, law enforcement workers, members of armed bodies, government officials. Of course, it is important that the health wage increase continues. Overall, as I said today, 24 percent in the sector was the wage increase that we could guarantee to 95,000 people. We managed to create additional resources to cover health wage growth worth HUF 76 billion, all by trying to coordinate and meet the representatives of the sector separately and together as many times as possible. One of the important consequences of this is the fact that Minister Zoltán Balog was able to report last week in the Committee on Welfare that from 1 January 2016 another 43,000 nurses will have the opportunity to receive a basic wage increase of HUF 15 billion in additional resources instead of the previous mobile wage, and this could be an additional 17,000 doctors. [[9.30]] The question of the emigration of doctors has been raised here several times, and this is also a problem in Hungary and in many other countries, as this is not a specific Hungarian problem. We want to spend 2.5 billion forints the following year to keep young specialists at home, as in previous years we have already spent billions of forints trying to give young residents a scholarship, plus 100 or 200 thousand forints to choose the work in Hungary, the service in Hungary, and not to migrate from Hungary, but to continue their activities elsewhere. We trust that those who are now out of the residency period as young specialists, if they receive the same extra allowance, the same net HUF 100 or 200 thousand, will continue to work here as specialists in Hungary. It's a program that's been running for about three years. If this had been the case before, many other doctors would have been able to keep it in Hungary. But this has only started in recent years, so the results can be seen from these years, but thousands of young doctors have been managed to keep in Hungary through this program. We provided a surplus of HUF 10 billion per year to the general practitioners, now twice a year. We hope that in the case of GPs, one of the most pressing problems, ageing, can be solved to such an extent that young, graduated doctors also choose the GP practice and act as a GP at home. An important legislative amendment or a legislative possibility, following a recent government referral, is that local governments can also release local business taxes to general practitioners, thus reducing their burden. We hope that as many municipalities as possible will use this and keep the general practitioners in their settlement. In addition to the wage increase, the development that you mentioned was obviously important, with a total value of HUF 500 billion. It is important to introduce a chip tax, which was an additional source, and which should be specifically, strapped to health wages. It was important to spend 8.5 billion forints on the reduction of waiting lists in the last year and a half. It is important to have debt consolidation, which is still taking place, because in these days it is finalizing exactly what kind of support the hospital receives, how we redeem their debt. Re-launching medical secondary schools is intended to remedy the kind of lack of expertise you've said. This means 2300 young people, we provided free training for 14,000 workers, and in the coming years for a career selection and career guidance scholarship, HUF 2.2 billion is available, precisely so that as many as possible choose the medical career. I hope that these measures will continue in the coming years, not without resources, as you said, but with additional resources, and we can report similar or higher wage increases even in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-12-12	For the next speech before the agenda, Mr Font Sándor, on behalf of the Fidesz, asked for a speech:, Once again, the ice has destroyed - are we able to build an effective defence system? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, Wednesday afternoon, the country was hit by a storm that caused far more damage than predicted. On the Sopron-Balaton route, then Kalocsa-Soltvadkert-Szegvár-Békéscsaba, there was a hail line, which had a long-awaited devastation. The special thing was that after eight o'clock in the evening, east of the Danube line, the ice was in the hours of the night, which was not typical. In general, heavy hail occurs due to daytime warming. Not only did the damage occur in buildings, but the real damage was to agriculture, and the areas were severely damaged by ice. Ice cut to pieces of field grainers, hatched corn, but the same fate has been done for outdoor garden plants. Perhaps the production value of 1 hectare was the biggest hit on vineyards and fruit plants. It is questionable whether the plants will be able to regenerate at all to produce again next year. In any event, farmers should immediately make their claims to local village farmers, because they have 15 days from the date of the damage. And it's the only way they're gonna get a chance to convert about 50 percent of this year's annual losses to the state compensation scheme. Hungarian agriculture has performed very well in recent years, and has been able to increase its production, sales and export data every year. Our agriculture has become an increasingly secure component of the performance of the domestic economy. We can safely say that when agriculture closed a good year, our economic growth was outstanding. It is therefore clear that if we want to stabilise the performance of agriculture in terms of GDP, we should reduce the losses caused by the weather. I myself have been saying this for several cycles. In order to reduce the damage to ice, available ice protection systems are available as a result of technological developments. In the Committee on Agriculture, on my initiative, we held a multi-hour consultation on ice-protection technologies and opportunities on 10 December 2014, the literal minutes of the meeting are available to interested parties on the Committee's website. The consultation involved the operators of the Serbian anti-seasonal system using a rocket method, as well as the operators of the domestic good ions vaporization system, meteorologists, climate experts and MTA scientists. Which defence technology, perhaps a mixed operation system, is effective, it is not worth discussing now, it is the job of professionals. What is clear from the lectures, however, is that in so-called island mode there is no point in local hail control, but it only makes sense if we cover as much of the connected areas as possible with protection. In my opinion, this coherent area could also be the whole area involved in Hungary's agricultural production, i.e. the full coverage of Hungary. This has already been achieved in several European countries. The investment and operating costs are almost dwarfed compared to the losses caused by ice. Just to show: Soltvadkerten lost about HUF 2 billion to the farmers in the vineyards alone, and then the damage to fruit producers and field producers. That is why I propose that the government begin to assess the complex ice protection system in Hungary, using French and Italian experience. At the same time, do not ignore the so-called IPA programme's 90 percent EU-Hungarian joint missile ice protection technology, which could be implemented under a cross-border cooperation programme. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-12-14	István Nagy, State Secretary, wishes to answer on behalf of the government. You have the floor.
u2015-05-12-15	Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, As a result of climate change affecting our land, the probability, frequency and negative economic, environmental and social impact of extreme weather events are growing very well. This is particularly sensitive to agriculture, one of the most important tasks of which is to ensure the supply of food to the population. As the risks of agriculture increase, this task could be put at risk and, therefore, more and more emphasis will be placed on risk prevention and risk management, to which the Ministry of Agriculture also pays particular attention. The renewed agricultural compensation scheme in Hungary in 2012 addresses, among other things, the ice damage. Since then, the system has been continuously evolving, with some 78,000 producers being members of the system, with a total of 4 million hectares. In 2015, the fall frost will increase the scope of the damage covered, and the procedure will become more precise. In November 2014, we introduced the electronic system, which facilitates the work of both producers and authorities. With the electronic damage notification, it is possible to report damage at the level of an open parcel, so that producers can be eligible for compensation by combining several minor damage, and compensation can be claimed even after a 15 per cent reduction in the level of operating income. Since 2012, we have also provided 65 percent premium support for agricultural insurance, which also covers the ice damage. The popularity of the three types of schemes is constantly increasing among producers. [[9.40]] Since its launch in 2012, he has already signed an agricultural insurance contract with a fee of HUF 5.68 billion in 2014. Until 2014, the aid can continue to be co-financed under the EAGF, from purely domestic budgetary sources in 2015 and from 2016 under the rural development programme, with an annual budget of HUF 3 billion in 2015. Ice damage is one of the most common incidents in Hungary, causing significant damage not only to agriculture but also to the population year after year. The hail can occur anywhere in the country, but an effective anti- hail system has so far been built in only three counties. A good example of this is the South-Transdanubian soil generator system, which has been operating since 91 and is supported by an increased amount by FM in addition to producer payments. In recent years, there has been a demand for the construction of a hail control system from several parts of the country - South Great Plain, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County - and we have set the goal of building a countrywide system in this cycle. In order to achieve this, the risk prevention measures of the rural development programme, which was opened in the second half of 2015, have also been developed accordingly. So I fully agree with my fellow Member that isolated, island-like protection is ineffective, and will only be effective if we can build a system covering the whole country. That's the way we're going now. In November 2014, a conference was held in the FM with the involvement of stakeholders, with questions about the practical implementation of a national hail response system in addition to the scientific background. Since then, we have repeatedly consulted the potential operators of the system, as a result of which the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy undertakes to implement the national anti-season system. For this, the Ministry grants all professional support, not by accident, of course. Experience with the operation of the South-Transdanubian system shows that the injury ratio, which is the percentage of the compensation and the insured value, has decreased significantly. In Baranya County, this averaged 4.3 percent in the period before the hail relief system was operational and around 1 percent since the use of the protection system. We therefore support the establishment of a national system. In order to implement and maintain the national system, we can use the experience of the South-Transdanubian soil generator hail recovery system. It is important to note that it is important not only to build the system but also to maintain the system to which the producer's contribution is essential. We must take into account that the benefits of such a system may not only be enjoyed by farmers, it may be necessary to involve third parties, such as insurance companies, municipalities and businesses, to cover the cost of running. In addition, at producer level, there is a further possibility of combating hail, for example by installing an ice net or foil, for which funding will be applied for under the rural development programme, as well as for participating as a third pillar of the national risk management system as an income insurance instrument that will also be introduced in the fruit and vegetable sector. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-16	Speaking before the next agenda, Mr András Aradszki, on behalf of the KDNP, asked for his life for his friends - Happy Salkaházi Sára Memorial Day. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-17	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, On Sunday, the Catholic Church read the passage of the Gospel of John that contained Jesus'will at the last supper. The essence of this is: love one another as I have loved you; no one has greater love than he who gave his life for his friends. On 27 December it was 70 years ago that the Arrowmen shot a naked and humiliated woman in the Danube in Budapest, whose crime was to save people in an inhumane period. Sára Salkaházi is a social nurse, who, besides many other church persons, had the heart to flee the innocent and defenseless Jewish persecuted during the historical period of silence. Yesterday, on May 11, we Catholics celebrated the liturgical memorial day of this holy-life monk. With the approval of Pope Benedict in 2006 at home before St. Stephen's Basilica, his happiness was inaugurated. He really gave his life for his friends, but not by mere human love or by some kind of liberal humanism, but by faith in Christ. For Christendom teaches that we should not love or prefer fellow humans because we feel sorry for them or sympathize with them. For a completely different reason. Because we believe that each person is God's image, a unique and unrepeatable creature with personal dignity, for whom Christ died on the cross. And if Jesus loved all humans so much, then we too must love one another. This is Christian humanism, which is the only real humanism. Hitler hated the church for this, but the same hatred led to the leadership of MDP in 1948 and thousands of Hungarians who identified with them. Dear House, Many people think that KDNP likes to talk about things that are not of interest to people, not about pragmatic things, not about political solutions. Yes, that may be the case, but as the only historical party in Parliament that has politicalised along the Christian creed in its history, for being persecuted by the National Socialists and the Communists, it is our duty to speak in matters that do not belong to everyday public discourse. [[It's constant noise.]] Salkaházi's martyrdom has come to eternity, where he awaits the good Hungarians. His martyrdom is also a warning sign. He warns me that not only the Memorial Day gives my present speech its topicality. There is also a faction here in the Hungarian Parliament that calls himself a Christian, even at Christmas - as a sign of some confusion - double crosses, but in its oral and practical manifestations it is very far from the concept described, and even represents the opposite of those who shot Sára Szalkaházi Martyr into the Danube. A few weeks ago, since they saw a chance to become victorious, they began to speak remarkably differently. They propose dangerously and worryingly simple and radical solutions. That is why, remembering Sára Salkaházi, it must be said here and now that she has a personal martyrdom for all of us, and that she should warn the politician of all time: either far right or Christianity - the two will not go together. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Or hunting!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-18	On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-12-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On May 11, 1899, Sára Salkaházi was born in Kassa. The few decades in which Košice was still raising him as a Hungarian city taught him to appreciate the nationalities living there, to appreciate the Slovaks, Germans and Hungarians as well. But he also taught him to appreciate those who lived their lives as other religions, either Reformed, Evangelical, or Jewish. Sadly, the destruction of World War I and the subsequent Trianon peace dictate broke his life to a great extent. On the one hand, he bravely took the action that he refused to swear to follow the state of Czechoslovakia at that time, and showed many Hungarians the way; he led many Hungarians in the fight in the highlands for the coming decades. On the other hand, he stood up for the minority Hungarians, for the Hungarians who came to the minority in Czechoslovakia at that time. Another great example of Sára Salkaházi's life, which is worth following, is clearly the time when, as a member of the Society of Social Brothers, he conducted a charitable activity, led a children's kitchen and a home for the poor. But I think that it is definitely the most emphasizing of his career, and I would add that the terrible dictatorship of the social brothers' activities, which began in the 1940s, has resulted in the destruction, persecution or execution of the lives of many tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of our compatriots, mostly our Jewish compatriots. [[9.50]] It's a pity that while you were speaking of Sára Salkaházi as a representative, there were factions who smiled at this and didn't listen to this story. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]] Nevertheless, it is necessary to highlight the struggle of the rescue activity that the sisters of the social society have done, as they have saved over a thousand Jewish children and mother and father, hundreds of whom are Salkahazi Sarah herself. And he was the one who, in December 1944, on December 27th, undertook to die, to shoot all the people he had hidden and saved into the Danube, too, by those far-right, fascist, Nazi thinkers who did not tolerate other ideologies other than them. Therefore, I think that his life must be monitored in today's world, because it is certainly an example in today's world; it is an example of any ideology, whether it be communism, whether it be Nazism or fascism, that must be done. Whether it is to take action against any people, ethnic groups or religious sect, we must speak against it, whether in the past or in the present, as, unfortunately, the persecution of Christians is now in many countries. That is why I thank all those who keep the memory of Salkahazi Sarah. Thank you to the Society of Social Brothers for continuing the social work and activities that were carried on together before and after the Second World War, and thank you, honourable Member, for mentioning this day of remembrance, your birthday in this respect, and revitalizing your life. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the LMP.]]
u2015-05-12-20	Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. It follows, therefore, that the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill on energy efficiency and the final vote will follow. The submission was made in T/4285. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4285/9. T/4285/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group is T/4285/3. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 proposed by Bernadett Wind. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes, 112 votes and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4285/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 115 votes to 32 with 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4285/12. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes to 31, with 20 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2011 CLXV on the Civil Guard and the Rules of Civil Guard. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission was made in T/3495. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/3495/12. T/3495/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3495/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 163 votes to four, with one abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3495/14. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 164 votes to four, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I ask you whether you will include in a series of articles the T/2860 on the amendment of certain laws by Mr András Schiffer to transform the rules on the declaration of assets of politicians exercising public authority and public money farmers. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill 53 yes, 115 no votes and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions by Mr Sallai R. Benedict on the national rural strategy and its implementation, H/2305. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution 53 yes, 115 votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. [[It's constant noise.]] This concludes the decisions, and we are now continuing our work with general debates. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to leave the room now because we're going to continue our work. [[10.00]] Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the non-compliance procedure under Article 31 of Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and certain amendments to the law on judicial matters will follow. The submission is T/4648. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that, as said at last week's meeting of the House Committee, the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, who tells the keynote speaker about the pulpit. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. Over the last decade and a half, European Union legislation has been a milestone in the maintenance and development of a single European area of justice for freedom, security and justice. A European Succession Law Regulation has also been established recently, which regulates the fundamental international private and procedural issues of succession relations in a uniform manner at EU level. From 17 August 2015, the Regulation will apply directly to all Member States of the European Union, including Hungary, with the exception of Denmark, the United Kingdom and Ireland. The regulation brings significant changes to all Hungarian law enforcement bodies. Until now, Hungarian law enforcement has only had to know the international rules of Hungarian domestic law, as well as our international treaties on succession relations. However, this will change, as from mid-August this year these provisions will be replaced by the rules of the Regulation. What innovations are introduced in the regulation? European citizens currently face a number of difficulties in enforcing their rights in relation to foreign estate property, as the majority of the free circulation of decisions or authentic instruments issued in another State on succession matters is lacking. As a result, today heirs are forced to initiate a separate procedure for access to the estate in all States where there is a legacy in respect of the succession of the same deceased. However, as a result of this Regulation, this situation will change from 17 August 2015. It will then be sufficient to carry out the succession procedure in a single Member State and to obtain the estate in each Member State with a decision or other document resulting from the procedure without a further succession procedure being carried out. This will make it significantly easier to enforce the rights of European citizens in the context of succession, and even to save considerable time and cost. Under the Regulation, both jurisdiction and the applicable substantive succession will be determined as the main rule by the habitual residence of the deceased at the time of his death. One of the guiding principles of the Regulation is the principle of the unity of the estate under which the jurisdiction of the forum conducting the proceedings extends to the entire estate of the deceased, including movable or immovable property in other Member States. A decision given as a result of a foreign procedure, or even a new legal institution created by the regulation, the heir with the European Certificate of Succession, will have access to his or her property in Hungary, whether it be the money in the bank account in Hungary or the real estate in Hungary. There may be cases where, on the basis of a decision taken by a foreign authority under foreign law or a European Certificate of Succession issued, an alien right in rem is required to be registered in the Hungarian register, which is unknown in Hungarian law. The regulation introduces so-called adaptation to remedy such situations. The essence of this is that the unknown right in rem should be adapted to the law of the Member State in which the property is situated, which is closest to the law in rem, and must be adapted to the law in rem that is closest to it. In order for our country to comply with the compliance obligation, the proposal introduces the so-called non-compliance procedure. This procedure shall be initiated by the body which manages the register, in the course of which the need for compliance has been identified, i.e. the body in which the foreign document containing foreign rights in rem was submitted for registration. The Hungarian court will take a decision on the compliance of foreign law in rem with the law of rem, which is known in Hungarian law, and the right of rem in the court's decision will be registered in the domestic register. The amendment sets out the procedure to be followed by Hungarian notaries in the international succession proceedings, the procedure to be followed in order to implement the decision on succession in another EU Member State, the notary deed in Hungary, and the special procedural rules to be applied by land offices in the real estate registration cases of customers wishing to enforce a European inheritance certificate. The bill therefore amends several laws, mostly the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law. The latter is subject to a comprehensive amendment in order to enable the transfer of the estate to take place as quickly and smoothly as possible, as in the case of succession cases which do not have a foreign element, if the Hungarian notary has jurisdiction under the decree. Following the application of the regulation, Hungarian notaries will also have to carry out a number of legacy proceedings in which the property of the deceased is largely located abroad. In order to deal with such cases, the bill introduces provisions on foreign estate in the Law of Procedure. In order to facilitate the search for foreign assets, such as foreign estate, the bill introduces a new legal institution, the probate procedural certificate. This document may assist those interested in the succession who wish to prove the existence of a foreign asset and its belonging to the estate, but in order, for example, to provide information and information to the foreign financial institution, they must in some way prove that there is a procedure in place in connection with the estate of the deceased and that they are involved in this procedure. The bill also includes in the Law on the European Certificate of Succession, the additional rules on the application for the issue of a European Certificate of Succession, the issue of a European Certificate of Succession and the right of appeal provided for by the regulation, which assist in the application of domestic law. The proposal also includes the withdrawal of the Hungarian declaration to the so-called Vienna purchase agreement. The Vienna purchase agreement is a treaty establishing a single regulation for the international sale of goods, to which almost all major states of the world have joined in commercial life. Today, there is no internal Hungarian legal provision that requires written terms to be required for sales contracts in general, and therefore there is no legal basis for maintaining the declaration. The maintenance of the declaration, the lack of consistency with internal law creates legal uncertainty and increases legal risks and costs in relation to international sales contracts with Hungarian companies. The withdrawal of the declaration would result not only in a clear legal situation, but also in an increase in the competitiveness of Hungarian companies. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to convert to the part of the bill that includes amendments to the law on the subject of justice and give a brief overview of its main content. On the basis of the provisions of the Civil Procedure on electronic communications, as of 1 January 2013, it is possible for the parties or their representatives to communicate electronically with the court in cases falling within the first degree of jurisdiction of the Tribunal. In this case, if the parties or their representatives choose the path of electronic contact in the civil suit, the court shall also contact the parties by electronic means. [[10.10]] As of 1 July 2015, the bill therefore provides for electronic contact with both the legal representative and the parties acting without a legal representative only as an option. However, as a result of the amendment provisions of the bill, electronic communication will now be possible not only in cases of first instance before courts and district courts, but also at all stages of civil proceedings, including redress procedures. The bill would require electronic communications from 1 January 2016 in order to allow the courts and the parties to the civil suit sufficient time to prepare for the mandatory use of electronic communications, including the liaison of courts with each other and with public authorities and other authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also provides a significant innovation in the regulation of notary activities. The proposal states that, like most notary proceedings, notary activities governed by the notary law, such as the drafting of a notary deed, document or trust of money, are not court proceedings, creating consistency with this approach reflected in judicial practice and in the legal order. Among these procedures, the paper-making procedure, which under the proposed legislation will be initiated upon request in the future, is a priority, in order to strengthen the administrative nature of the procedure towards customers and to enable evidence of the time and content of the procedural relationship between the notary and the client, i.e. public law. The introduction of a formal application also allows the closure of the procedure to be resolved where it does not end with the completion of the application, i.e. the preparation of the document or the refusal to participate. In proceedings governed by the notaries Act, the main rule is that the client is free to choose a notary, but he cannot act outside his jurisdiction. This allowed regulation should be tightened up at some points. To this end, the bill excludes the jurisdiction of submission for all notary proceedings, i.e. in the future, customers cannot conclude the competence of notary with their agreement. It is also necessary to facilitate the elimination of adverse practices experienced in foreign exchange-credit cases, which are reflected in the governance of consumers to a specific notary, which can be achieved by more stringent regulation of the notary's contribution to consumer credit. The purpose of the Fairbank Act was to ensure the effective protection of consumers, which is supported by this amendment by requiring, as a main rule, a notary of the debtor's place of residence and place of residence in the case of transactions governed by the Fairbank Act. In cases where the subject-matter or collateral of the transaction is real estate, or alternatively the notary of the location of the property may act. This will also make a significant contribution to making it possible for notaries to have more effective chamber control of their papermaking activities in connection with fairbank law, which will help to ensure uniform application of the law and the full protection of consumers' interests. In order to ensure compliance with the proposed rules of competence, the bill states as a sanction in the event of infringement that the notary document drawn up in breach of the rules of competence does not constitute an authentic instrument. The rules on the transformation of the notary office will also be renewed, allowing the notary to continue to engage in business using the existing office infrastructure if the service relationship of the notary is terminated by reaching the retirement age or exemption. To this end, the notary office may become a limited liability company, and a limited liability company may be formed from a notary office operated by several notaries by the removal of the member concerned by the termination of service. In addition to what has already been said, the bill amends several laws on judicial status. The aim of these changes is to further clarify the legal framework necessary for the high quality, uniform, predictable and timely functioning of the Hungarian justice system. As regards the law on the service relationship of judicial staff, the bill contains a number of minor clarifications that facilitate the employment and organisation of work of judicial staff. In addition, it will introduce a 10-percent job bonus for judicial authors and court secretaries and, in parallel, for prosecutors and sub-consultants from 1 July 2015. In view of the increasing tasks and services of the courts, the duties of the judges and court secretaries are also increasing, so that the employees of this function will be entitled to increased remuneration and job allowances by adopting the bill. With regard to the law on the status and remuneration of judges, the bill amends several fundamental provisions at the initiative of the President of the National Court of Justice, which also make the functioning of justice more predictable and timely. In this context, it re-regulates the conditions for the appointment of a military judge, extending the range of those who have the health, physical and psychic competence certificate issued by the Hungarian Defence Office to be appointed to the post of military judge. With the amendment, the bill ensures equality of applicants, the employment of military judges and the rational and justified exploitation of professional staff in accordance with the Fundamental Law. The bill complements the criteria to be taken into account in the development of the ranking of applications for judicial posts, as well as the procedural deadline and detailed rules of the judicial inquiry. It also creates the possibility of judicial examination of judges assigned to the National Court of Justice and to the Ministry, which would give all judges the possibility of fair and equal treatment. The bill removes obstacles to the position of appointed judges in the Ministry of Justice led by the Minister for Justice. In addition, consideration should be given to the transformation of the judicial career: there are more and more appointed judges who have reached the successful judicial tender, not through the classic court-judge-judge court-judge career, but who have gained experience in other fields before the appointment of a secretary or judicial tender, for example as a lawyer or in the administration, which can also be used well in the preparation of legislation. In view of this, it is unjustified to maintain the distinction between judges appointed under the current rules for a fixed and indefinite period. In addition to the foregoing, the bill amends the rules of secondment to another court by the President of the National Court of Justice. This amendment addresses a practical problem, with the aim of eliminating conflicts of interest in relation to the head of the court and his relative as a co-application ban. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the amendment of the prosecutor's law. The bill provides the prosecution, irrespective of the nature of the case, with the possibility of providing or using the regulated electronic administration services necessary for the implementation of electronic communications, thereby facilitating contacts with the prosecutor and accelerating the effective prosecution of the prosecution. Another important element of electronic administration is the use of different electronic forms and the establishment of other electronic submissions, which make communication more transparent, simpler and faster. However, the use of electronic forms is, of course, not a mandatory requirement for citizens or customers who are not in service with the prosecutor's office, but, in their choice, they may continue to use the channels and forms of communication currently available. [[10.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have introduced the bill, which contains some key provisions, which aims to amend fundamental laws. Please note in the debate on the bill and finally in the decision that all these clarifications have been initiated by the judiciary and developed by the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with the judiciary. If, of course, there is a need for further detailed discussions in order to adopt the essential points, then the Ministry of Justice is ready to consult the factions with the involvement of these judicial bodies. I recommend the bill to the honourable Members, asking for their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-12-22	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I therefore give the floor to Imre Vas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-12-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The European Union has set itself the objective of maintaining and improving the area of freedom, security and justice in which the free movement of persons is ensured. In order to progressively establish the area, the European Union shall adopt measures for judicial cooperation in civil matters having cross-border implications, in particular where it is necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. So begins the 650/2012. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on jurisdiction in matters of succession, applicable law, recognition, enforcement of decisions in matters of succession and the acceptance, enforcement of authentic instruments issued in matters of succession and the introduction of a European Certificate of Succession. The Regulation adopted dates back to 1999 within the European Community. At its meeting in Tampere on 15 and 16 October 1999, the European Council approved the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and other decisions of judicial authorities as the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in civil matters and invited the Council and the Commission to adopt a programme of measures to implement this principle. On 30 November 2000, the Commission and the Council adopted a joint programme of measures to enforce the principle of mutual recognition of decisions in civil and commercial matters. The programme sets out measures relating to the harmonisation of conflict-of-law rules that facilitate mutual recognition of decisions and require the development of legal instruments for wills and successions. At its meeting in Brussels on 4 and 5 November 2004, the European Council adopted a new programme entitled "The Programme for Freedom, Security and Justice in the European Union." This programme underlines the need to adopt a legal instrument on succession matters which deals in particular with the mutual recognition, enforcement of decisions on legal conflict, jurisdiction, succession issues and the issue of a European Certificate of Succession. At its meeting in Brussels on 10 and 11 December 2009, the European Council adopted a new multi-annual programme entitled "The Stockholm Programme - An open and secure Europe serving and protecting citizens." In this programme, the European Council considered that mutual recognition, respect for the legal systems, public order and national traditions of the Member States, should be extended to areas not yet covered but vital for everyday life, such as succession and wills. After all, the European Union declared in the said regulation in 2012 that it was necessary to facilitate the proper functioning of the internal market by removing obstacles to the free movement of persons who are currently having difficulties in enforcing their rights in relation to a cross-border succession. The rights of heirs, traditional persons and other persons close to the deceased, as well as the creditors of the estate, must be effectively guaranteed. In order to achieve those objectives, the Regulation collected provisions on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition or, where appropriate, acceptance, enforceability and enforcement of decisions, authentic instruments and court settlements and the introduction of a European Certificate of Succession. However, the scope of the Regulation does not cover tax matters or administrative matters of a public nature, and national law should therefore provide, for example, for the calculation and recovery of taxes or other administrative debts, whether it is the tax liability of the deceased on the date before death or any tax payable by the estate or beneficiaries on inheritance. National law should also provide for which of the transfers of legacy goods to beneficiaries pursuant to this Regulation and the registration of legacy goods are taxable. Therefore, although the rules of the regulation apply directly from 17 August 2015, it does not affect, for example, the exemption from the levy on the direct line inheritance, which the Prime Minister confirmed in the days. The proposal before us introduces a new non-court procedure and amends laws in the context of the regulation in order to implement the European Community regulation referred to. The non-court procedure is the so-called non-compliance procedure, to which the Buda Central District Court will be competent in the first instance, while the Metropolitan Court will be competent in the second instance. It is important to note that adaptation can be achieved by comparative analysis of the foreign law of succession and rem and domestic law, which can only be carried out by a body with outstanding expertise in these areas of law. I believe that those assigned to this task are capable of meeting this serious challenge. In some context, I would like to ask you to allow me to note that the proposal introduces a 10-percent job bonus for judicial authors and court secretaries as of 1 July 2015, the same applies to prosecutors and prosecutors. The proposal before us also establishes the right of custody of the court secretary over the court administrator, since in the cases provided for by law, the court secretary is entitled to a substantive judgmental activity. Furthermore, the proposal also provides for the possibility for the court secretary to be appointed to the Ministry of Justice, thereby helping to gain professional experience. Pursuant to the motion submitted, the President of the National Court of Justice may entrust the judicial staff member with the consent thereof and with the agreement of the President of the Court of Justice exercising the powers of employer to carry out in a coordinated manner a central administrative task involving several courts. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, in addition to what has been said, the bill also addresses practical problems in court. For example, if the application for review is rejected without the issuing of a subpoena or the termination of the case, it should be possible for it to have a place in the future, because the jurisdiction of the Hungarian court cannot be established on the basis of any grounds of jurisdiction. [[10.30]] The interpretation of the law is facilitated by the statement that in proceedings initiated with a request for a payment order, the time limit for bringing an action shall be calculated from the date of service of the preparatory document to the defendant. The proposal also aims to ensure that the time limit set in small-value lawsuits for the invitation to trial and the statement called to trial is only 8 days instead of 30 days. Electronic forms of communication are gaining ground both in public administration and in the judiciary. It is therefore important to point out that, from 1 July 2015, electronic communications will be available not only in cases of first instance before the court and the district courts, but also at all stages of the civil suit, including redress procedures. In parallel, the proposal also makes the electronic contact of courts with each other and with public administrations and other authorities mandatory from 1 January 2016. Finally, allow me to draw your attention to changes in the rules on non-court proceedings by notaries. The proposal clearly states that, in the procedures governed by the notaries' Act, the Act on individual notaries' non-court proceedings serves as a subsidiary standard. In addition, it is necessary to lay down a number of different provisions in the Law on notaries. The main rule of the Law on notaries is that the client is free to choose a notary, but he cannot act outside his jurisdiction. However, this rule should be strengthened on the basis of practical experience, such as effective protection of consumers' rights. In the case of transactions governed by the Fairbank Act, the notary should act according to his place of residence or, failing that, his place of residence. In cases where the object or collateral of the transaction is real estate, the notary of the location of the property shall also be liable. Such a rule of competence makes a major contribution to ensuring that notaries can be effectively monitored for the drafting of documents in connection with a fair bank law. It is also for this purpose that, in the same way, in the event of the termination of an authentic instrument covered by the Fairbank Act, the notary seconded to the place of establishment who has incorporated the legal act into the authentic instrument is solely competent for the declaration of termination or for the certification of his communication. I believe that, in the context and details of the proposal before us, it also serves to facilitate the legal affairs of citizens, the efficiency and speed of justice and public administration, but also to provide legal certainty, whether it is a cross-border succession, communication with courts or notary procedures. That is why I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-24	I now give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-05-12-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I begin to analyse certain specific provisions of the bill, I would like to highlight two fundamental problems in this regard. One is that the Ministry has again put a salad law before us, and not just any ministry, but the Ministry of Justice, which is supposed to dissuade the other ministries from bringing such salad laws before us, in which they wish to introduce a number of other amendments, starting from the pass on the non-compliance procedure, through notaries, through the laws of judicial status. This is not only from abroad and from abroad, but also from the President of the Republic, I say the Hungarian opposition parties, the Venice Commission. You can't do that. Compared to this, the Ministry that should be responsible for the unity of the legal system should be responsible for the state's state of law, the Ministry re-submits the salad law to us. This is one of the fundamental problems. The other problem, Mr Secretary, is that you - I find no other word for it than that it is false - you have falsely said about the pulpit how open you are to the discussion. Dear Secretary of State, Do you not think that, in the case of a two-thirds law, when the governing parties do not have a two-thirds majority in Parliament, they should be consulted before submitting this bill? I think it would be the right thing to do. Thus, Mr Secretary of State, I tell you in advance, we will not support this proposal. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: That's what we thought!]] And we're probably not alone in this. I think they're cutting the wood down on their own when they're playing with the same arrogance of power on the two-thirds bill that they did when you had that authority. It's better to realize it's gone now. I don't know how many failed two-thirds bills are needed to see that it is necessary to agree. And I don't know how many failed bill proposals are needed to see that conciliation is not a formal settlement, that they sit around a table, they listen to who says what, and then they do what you want, but they have to be content meetings, content discussions about what opposition parties see right and what they can support. And, you know, Mr State Secretary, the problem with this is that when you ask the opposition parties to do so later, we can do this in a very defined and narrow framework, because we may not want to make a change on these issues in particular, and we are not sure that these are the ones that are the most important to us. When we sit down for such a discussion, we may need to look at what we have in general, say, in relation to the judicial system, about the status law. For example, the entire opposition objects to the fact that some decisions may be taken by the President of the OBH without justification. For example, you can declare applications ineffective. We'd like to change that. And obviously we would be more open to your proposals if these proposals could be put on the table at the same time. So, Mr Secretary of State, I think that you are introducing two-thirds legislative proposals without consulting the opposition first, that is not right. They're gonna hit the wall again. And the fact that you're here to tell me that you're open to future discussions on the subject, only what you've submitted, that's not right. That wasn't the case, and I'm telling you, it's not gonna happen. The fact that, by the way, issues are being brought together again in a proposal that has nothing to do with each other is also a problem, just as we probably will not be able to accept the whole bill, so we cannot vote for the provisions that we would otherwise do. For example, as regards the provisions on the European Certificate of Succession, we would support it. I would have said about the same speech as I did in the previous bill on justice, which, if I remember correctly, was literally on our side, thank you, it's okay, and I would sit down. Only the rest of the bill, Mr. Secretary of State, will we not be able to support it. You have spoken long enough, so I will spare the House the details of the detailed rules on the change of the European succession law on non-compliance proceedings, and you and your fellow Member, Mr Vas Imre, have done so. However, I would like to mention a few things. The first is that, at first glance, it does not seem to be a bad provision that the parties or their representatives may choose the possibility of electronic communication from 1 July 2015 not only in cases falling within the competence of the Courts at first instance, but also at all levels, stages of the civil proceedings, i.e. in redress proceedings. [[10.40]] But there's a problem with that. The fact that it's covering something up. In civil proceedings, as of 1 January 2013, it is possible for the parties and their representatives to communicate electronically with the court in cases falling within the jurisdiction of the Court of First Instance. In this case, the court must also contact the parties electronically. However, this amendment puts electronic communication in quarantine, i.e. almost - and this problem here, Mr Secretary of State - undetected by six months, shifts the scope of electronic affairs. The deadline for the introduction of this legislation is 1 July 2015, which would be postponed by six months. It is also aggravated by the fact that the proposal also requires the electronic contact of courts with each other and with public administrations and other authorities from the first day of January 2016, instead of the introduction on 1 July 2015. These amendments are unacceptable, and I would like to point out that they do raise the personal responsibility of the President of the OBH, the Fairy of the Hando for this. This sad situation is covered - and I will return to it - by the proposed provision that, as of 1 July 2015, electronic contacts with both the legal representative and the parties acting without a legal representative will appear only as an option in civil proceedings. True, I say, this may seem to be a significant achievement, not only in the first instance, but in all stages of the civil suit, but this is a provision which is intended to conceal, i.e. that it will not be brought into force on a compulsory basis, only six months later, as otherwise planned. But to list the problems and keep the order, here come the more serious ones. Dear Secretary of State, By the way, you added in your opening statement the meaningless explanation that could be read in the written explanation of the bill. The sentence that the further clarification of the legal framework necessary for the high quality, uniform, predictable and timely functioning of the Hungarian justice system is the aim, Mr. Secretary of State, that is about the fact that it is. So you can say that about anything. There is no bill on which this sentence cannot be written. None. Because obviously the aim is not to destroy a person's bill, at least not by the intent of the petitioner. So the fact that you've been trying to explain specific provisions for such a transparent reason has been your custom for five years, but I must say that you have a very bad habit and an unacceptable habit. As far as the merit of the matter is concerned, they're trying to explain it. On the one hand, I do not know what could have happened, that it would be necessary to employ secretaries in the codification work. Dear Secretary of State, What I can tell you is: is there any restriction in this proposal on what kind of priors of secretaries can be called in for codification work? [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: These are fixed-term judges! Sometimes we have to read the bill, and then we can argue better.]] Mr. Secretary of State will correct and supplement me when I say it wrong, okay? [[Dr. Répássy Róbert pointing towards the pulpit: I told you up there!]] I would be very interested in your opinion on this, of course. Believe me, if I'm wrong about that, you've had bigger mistakes about how justice works. On the other hand, one thing is certain - and you said that up there, I suppose you do not wish to interpret it differently - that it will also count as a case-law work if someone in the ministry, let us say, performs codification work or another job. Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary? [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Not well!]] Yes, that's right, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Then don't ask my opinion.]] That's right, Mr. Secretary, because that's what you said... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Come on, fellow sportsmen! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. Secretary. It's written in the bill. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Don't tease me, Congressman.]] that if a judge is appointed for a fixed period, then, when he is intended to be appointed for an indefinite period, then what he has served in the ministry will be considered to be a judgmental work. [[Dr. Répássy says no to Róbert's head.]] All right, then disprove me. So you're going to deny your own bill, because that's what it says. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: It is worth the same in terms of evaluation. Demergence in the ranks of opposition parties.]] But Mr. Secretary... good. I think that's what they call a wooden iron ring, right? [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-05-12-26	Please, let's keep the house rules, let's not have this conversation.
u2015-05-12-27	It is worth the same for the assessment. Yeah. That is, in Hungarian, when a person enters the Ministry, after his time there, he will also be able to be appointed as an indefinite judge. That's the point. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: This is like the relationship of representatives, for example.]] That's the point, Mr. Secretary. I don't think that's right. It was precisely for the judicial appointment of indefinite duration that the judge was required to carry out a real judicial work. It is precisely so that it can be seen before a person is appointed for an indefinite period of time that he is indeed capable of carrying out the case-law. If someone can be appointed a judge after a ministry job without judging a moment, then I think it will be quite difficult to determine whether or not he is qualified to do the judging work. I think that's a problem, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: He may have a scientific degree, for example.]] The problem, Mr. Secretary of State, is that the Ministry will be able to be used again as a stepping stone. It used to be fashion, and I know that there was a starting judge in the Ministry, and he spent time there, and then, skipping the forensic level, he was straight up, and at that time he was practically in the Supreme Court, and then later, he was a judge, and he could be gone. I don't think that's okay. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: The last such appointment was in 2010.]] Then I would also like to know, Mr State Secretary - but again I say that you will tell me when I think wrong, because that is obviously what Parliament's debate is for - that secretaries and judges should take an examination of administrative knowledge. I couldn't find any meaningful explanation for that. I'd appreciate it if you could tell me, Mr. Secretary, that a professional who graduated from law school and then passed the exam, and then would like to be a judge, so what the hell do you have to take an administrative exam for? ! Or am I wrong about that, Mr. Secretary? [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes. Defiance.]] Well, then tell me what I know wrong. And I would also like to know, Mr Secretary, although I will not ask you now whether I am well aware of the possibility of discharge. Then tell me, Mr. Secretary, what this discharge option looks like, who will be exempted. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Read the law!]] Whom will be released, I ask you, Secretary of State. Parliament's debate is for us to discuss this. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You'll get the answer from Imre Vas, watch out! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I've been watching you, Mr. Secretary, but you haven't told me about this. I was watching Congressman Vas Imre, and he didn't talk about it either. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You weren't listening.]] Then please do this for us, to enlighten us about how this is going to work, because I don't know which secretary or author will be worthy of not having to take an examination of administrative knowledge. Maybe the person who spent a few years as a court description and then goes to law school might not have to take that exam. But you will tell me, Mr Secretary, if I have read the law so superficially, but it seems that not only I, but a lot of others have done so. Mr State Secretary, in short, the time has passed, so it is certain that we will not be able to support this proposal, and we will not be partners in any two-thirds bill where there is no prior consultation. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-12-28	I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman. [[10.50]]
u2015-05-12-29	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, After the European Commission has facilitated the situation of couples in divorce cases within the European Union, the EU is now 650/2012. Parliament's and Council Regulation No 17 provides for a similar relief for families who, because of the loss of a loved one, are faced with the consequences of the problems faced by legal forces in different countries, the problems they face. Due to different ethical rules, different rules on successions in the EU Member States, serious legal mazes or, more like, mazes have emerged. How this regulation gives Ariadne a thread and a way out of this labyrinth, allow me to give you an example. In particular, the fact that the regulation makes it significantly easier to determine which country's law will govern the conduct of the succession procedure and the substantive law in each case. The regulation therefore simplifies the procedure in the area of succession, giving greater legal certainty to EU citizens and thus to Hungarian citizens. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/4648 on the non-compliance procedure in accordance with Article 31 of Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and certain amendments to the law on judicial matters. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure, on the one hand, that any decision taken in succession matters in an EU Member State is recognised without a separate procedure in other Member States, and, on the other hand, that the implementation of a decision in succession matters in any EU Member State is ensured and, on the other hand, that the European Certificate of Succession is introduced. The Regulation was adopted on 4 July 2012 and its rules will apply directly to all EU Member States from 17 August 2015. Inheritance cases for persons who have died on or after this date shall be dealt with by domestic law practitioners in accordance with the above objectives or shall be enforced. In order to implement the above, the bill introduces a new non-court procedure and amends laws mainly from the procedural and IT side in order to ensure a timely procedure for notaries and courts, but also for the electronic administration of litigation and non-court proceedings. The amendment of the bill allows the parties and their legal representatives to choose the possibility of electronic communication not only in matters falling within the competence of the courts at first instance, but also from 1 July 2015 at all stages of the civil proceedings at any stage of the case, i.e. the review procedure. The bill also amends the XLI of 1991 on notaries mutatis mutandis. a law which has a fundamental impact on the definition of notary papermaking as a non-court procedure by laying down the rules of competence and jurisdiction. The bill provides for an exclusive competence in connection with the termination of transactions in a notary instrument governed by the Fairbank Act, the breach of which means the loss of the quality of the authentic instrument of the notary. The bill also contains technical amendments. Ladies and Gentlemen, In summary, it can be concluded that the EU regulation and thus the bill significantly simplifies the conduct of the international succession procedure by defining jurisdiction and the law applicable to cross-border transactions on the basis of a single criterion, the habitual residence of the deceased. The bill also allows EU citizens, including Hungarian citizens, to provide their legacy in advance with full legal certainty. The legislation also introduces a European Certificate of Succession, which makes succession and legacy trust status enforceable throughout the European Union without any other formalities. This represents a significant step forward compared to the current situation, in which European citizens can only exercise their rights extremely circumstantially and consume a lot of time and money. On this basis, please support the T/4648. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction will also support the bill in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-30	I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2015-05-12-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a law that is trying to regulate, in view of the changed European situation, relations that may not have happened properly at Member State level in recent years. Europe has changed, and the people of Europe have changed, and this is a great pressure on us, Hungary, and it has brought many negative things, because we know that today one of Hungary's biggest problems is that nearly 600 thousand people have left this country to work abroad, and a lot of these people will not even come home, but if they even come home to their retirement age, their children and their descendants, who are going to go to school there, who are going to acquire their identity there, will be the language that they will speak to their friends, they will tie them to them, not to Hungary. 600,000 is a terrible number. The latest survey of Tarki has just been published, which shows that those who are still here in Hungary, who remain in this country, are also 10 percent of those, so every 10 people outside of Hungary imagine their future. They want to go to England, Germany, Austria and work, where they imagine the future of their families, where they imagine their own future. These numbers are very sad, and these facts are very sad. I recall the words of Attila József's verse "Hazam, " when the poet speaks of the fact that one and a half million of our people have staggered to America. Yes, it was a very dark historical age, and if you look at the time that Attila József lived, what he writes about, which era he writes about, well, the era when he was still in Great Hungary, when he had 23 million inhabitants in this country, and if you look at that 1.5 million people in his proportions, then you realize that today's number is exactly the same. So the same number of people as Joseph in Attila's book "Hazam " came out abroad in his proportions. But why did I say that about this? I told you about this law because all these people are moving out, 600,000, then 1 million, and who knows where they're going to stop, new family relationships, new relationships with relatives, and all this brings with it that when they get there in time and age, that they're going to die, then the inheritance problems are going to come up in relation to the relations and property acquired outside. What right will apply to him, who will inherit him? Will English legislation, British legislation or Hungarian legislation be applied in these cases? In this respect, too, given the changed circumstances, it is very good that a new law is coming in which we are trying to standardise this and we are trying to come up with a set of rules that will bring these rules together virtually across Europe or almost throughout Europe, and that everyone is well aware of what kind of country, what kind of real estate and movable property legislation should apply and are relatively smooth. [[11.00]] Obviously, it is not the goal that, in the past, a relative died in Canada, and it took 5-10 years to carry out the probate procedure, and at some point during the probate procedure, he came into money, and he did not even know what form, especially during the period of socialism. This legislation simplifies it relatively, unites it, sets out its procedure, and will also take into account procedural times. That is why it is good to introduce it. In this context, 650/2012 was born. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). This basically regulates the problems of succession in the territory of the European Union. Article 31 of this text is based on today's legislative proposal. What's the point? In fact, that would fit in a sentence if the Ministry of Justice had not presented this legislation as a salad law. As the opposition Member who spoke before me has said, we simply do not understand why such legislation should involve other draft legislation which does not belong to it. Bringing it in as a salad law is not in any way considered appropriate. But why is unification good? Unification is good because the legislation in rem does not consistently correspond to each other in the European Union, which is applied in one country. And if a right to property does not mean the same thing in Hungary, for example in Britain, then Hungary will have a problem if a person's right to inheritance is to be enforced in Hungary. What's the problem? For example, if the right of a person, an heir, should be entered in the Hungarian real estate register on the basis of a real estate law which is not known by the law, for example, the Land Office cannot make this change through the real estate register, because there is no such provision in the Real Estate Register law, on the basis of which it could be registered in the real estate register. The main point of the regulation is that in this case a compliance procedure should be carried out in Hungary, in which the law enforcement bodies will examine which Hungarian legal institution is closest to a given foreign law in rem, which is the law in rem which can be drawn upon, and, where appropriate, the land office will register this. But obviously, the land office is not in a position to decide and determine this on its own; for, although obviously excellent workers, civil servants work there, but it is not their responsibility to solve such a legal problem. There is a more dedicated body for this purpose, not by accident, the Ministry of Justice, on the basis of the EU Council Regulation, has established the power to do so in such a way that the court, as a more degrading body in Hungary, has jurisdiction and that the court should be the one to act in this case. So the powers are correctly assigned to the courts. The other issue, which is regulated here, is the jurisdiction of the courts. The jurisdiction is also clear, it is very right that a court is designated for jurisdiction by the legislator, and this is the Central District Court of Buda. And since there is a system of redress for everyone under the Fundamental Law, there is also an opportunity to appeal to the Metropolitan Tribunal. So this decision is right and clear. We also need to see that the whole procedure is initiated at the request of the applicant. It's very interesting who the applicant would be. It would seem logical in the first place that the heir, who is most interested in succession, should be the applicant. However, the applicant here will be the institution acting at the core, an administrative body to which the request for inheritance has been submitted. As I mentioned in the previous example, when it comes to the law on succession in the real estate register, the land office itself will be the applicant. And, quite rightly, the law says that when the application is submitted by the applicant, it is necessary to inform those involved in the succession case of its initiation. I would also like to propose an amendment to the Ministry of Justice, and we will also submit this amendment. The point of this would be to inform not only the fact that the application has been submitted from the court, but also to send a copy of the request directly to the person concerned in the succession case, so that he is also aware of the request submitted. After all, there will be a quasi-interruption in this case, even if the law does not recognise this in the non-court proceedings, that it could be involved as an intervener in the proceedings. But you will still have more or the same right, since the remedy procedure can be presented by the heir himself, who is involved in the succession. That is why it is important that this amendment be included. Therefore, the request itself should be sent at the same time as the initiation of the proceeding to the parties concerned. That's what I suggest we consider. It is right to decide solely on the basis of documents, since it is a quick procedure, which has a strict deadline. There is a 60-day deadline for this. 60 days is an acceptable human deadline, since, in such a short period of time, succession cases have not gone through so far, especially if there was foreign involvement in the matter. So it's definitely a good thing. Another question is that there are cases where, unfortunately, 60 days cannot be observed. Obviously, the legislation points out the problems in this regard, namely that in many cases the Hungarian court will clearly not know the relevant law of that Member State of the European Union and will not have an official translation at its disposal. Therefore, in the way already practiced and customary, as has been done by the courts, when a request for foreign or foreign law was required, the Ministry of Justice was informed, and the Ministry of Justice has already obtained it in the usual manner, in the event that the person concerned with the succession is unable to make the relevant legislation available to the court or the relevant decisions. Then the court will get them through the Justice Department. So, in my view, this part is also correctly created. On this basis, the court will find within 60 days, knowing the law of the foreign state, compared with Hungarian law, the real-estate legal institution in the Hungarian legal system, which should be applied in Hungary, and will then instruct the Land Office in its decision to register the kind of law that the court will decide. From here the circle will be closed, and from here the foreign succession decision will also be enforceable in Hungary. This is why the European Certificate of Succession has a role to play here, which also plays a major role in the fact that in all Member States the law which the heir acquired with the opening of the succession will be applied equally in the case of succession. The draft legislation also provides for procedural costs. It is quite clear that it is in the best interest of the court to pay the costs. There was a special situation here, because the applicant is not the one who will win the law at the discretion of the court, but the one who is involved in the succession. Therefore, it is quite clear that the applicant will ask the person involved in the succession, i.e. the heir, to advance these costs in the course of the proceedings, and these costs will be transferred to the court. So this is also good in this respect. What we need to see is that if this legislation is purely with the certificate of succession, only with the certificate of succession is 650/2012. It would be related to the implementation of an EU regulation, and it would clearly be our position that this should be voted in any way. In view of the changed circumstances at the beginning of my speech, it is in any case in the interest of all Hungarian citizens that the succession procedures in the European Union be carried out in a similar way and that the law of one country can be adapted in another country. [[11.10]] The right of succession should be exercised regardless of who in which country, which territory of nationality, which territory of immovable property he acquired in the territory of which State, regardless of which country he acquired the rights of heir. So, in this respect, the legislation would in any case be good. Another question is that due to the nature of the salad law, it brings in many other things, which are partly good and partly we cannot agree with it. In connection with this - my time is running out desperately - a few more thoughts about the electronic procedure. My fellow Member, Bárándy, said that the government is about to circumvent the introduction of the electronic court procedure on 1 July 2015, to push it out, thereby creating only the possibility. We agree that there must be an electronic procedure at all levels. However, we can no longer agree with Mr Barándy that this should be introduced in all areas. It is very right that there is a transitional period, and we would even say that half a year will not be enough for this transitional period. Thank you very much for your attention, because my time is up. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-32	I now give the floor to Andras Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2015-05-12-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The part of the bill that concerns the non-compliance procedure, the right of European succession, compliance with European succession law, and the part of the law on electronic administration is, of course, eligible, and I can even say that most of the bill is eligible. With regard to European law of succession and harmonisation with European law on succession and succession, I can repeat what my colleague Csaba Gyüre has just said, that it is, of course, very important and, unfortunately, more important to take over these rules of matching, and it is important that this non-compliance procedure is being implemented, because according to data published a few days ago, migration from Hungary is accelerating and has also accelerated in this quarter. In this regard, let me just say that the most important task of government policy would be to try to remove the root causes of the growing number of young people in this country who are not going to look for their prosperity in Hungary. So, while it is imperative that, precisely because of emigration, we approach European and Hungarian succession law even more closely, the solution would be that Hungarian young people should be able to thrive in their homeland, and not only be the perspective of being a public worker and slaving at the assembly plant. So, of course, we welcome the rules on matching, but we expect the government to finally start a policy that does not encourage young people to leave this country, but tries to eliminate the relationships that are driving more and more young people away from their homeland. Dear Parliament, At the same time, our concerns about the bill lie in a smaller part of the bill, so to speak, but precisely in the parts of the bill that are two-thirds of the list, which are based on the legal status of the judge. That is precisely why it would have been appropriate to have a five-party consultation before the submission. I would like to advance that, of course, there may even be arguments to consider regarding the rules on judicial status in the case of a judicial wallet or OBH, but in the light of the foregoing, we cannot say 'yes' responsibly to a proposal or a set of proposals that appear to strengthen the trends that started in 2011. What's this about? When the debates about the transformation of the Hungarian judicial system appeared to be international, we indicated the following points, which are also of concern after the decision of the Constitutional Court. At present, a license of the President of the OBH remained among the rules of judicial selection following the resolution of the Constitutional Court of 13/2013, which, although somewhat corrected, is a blank cheque in the hands of the President of OBH, Tünde Handó, on how to declare tenders ineffective. The point is that in the debates of 2011-12, we constantly wanted to weed out, in part, the rules of the legal status and organization law, which at least place the shadow on the side of the judiciary, political influence or warranty rules. The rule that the President of the OBH will continue to give the President of the OBH a flat-rate license to declare a tender ineffective in the assessment of judicial applications remains in place. Read the Legal Status Act 20. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Our second request, our demand, which would be a guarantee rule, is that the shadow of suspicion should not be cast upon the administration of justice, that a decision will be made on the basis of political instructions or that a case will be properly distributed: the institution of automatic signalisation should also be introduced in Hungary. No one in this country should ever question the fact that the judge is indeed acting in a single, free from political influence, in a civil case or in a criminal case. There is only one antidote for this: if automatic signalization occurs. If we look back in time, the government originally wanted to introduce a system where the President of the National Court of Justice and the Attorney General were virtually free to direct cases from one court to another. Obviously, if such a blank check had remained in the hands of Péter Polt and Tünde Hando, it would not matter what word of honor anyone swears, obviously the suspicion would remain over the head of the organization. [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] I would prefer that Vas Imre once expressed his opinion in a debate when he does not read a document. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: He will explain!]] So, if this right of free guidance had remained for Péter Polt and the Fairy of Hando, there would be a strong suspicion that political decisions would mean moving cases from one court to another. In the wake of various international debates, this driver's license has been forgotten by the government, but the intention remains in our minds what they were trying to do. However, this one rule remained, which gives the President of the OBH a virtually unconditional discretion to declare judicial applications to be ineffective without justification, in fact without valid justification. On the other hand, it is one thing not to be free to direct cases from one court to another, but it would also be convincing for people if no subjective aspect could play a role because it is objectively excluded from the distribution of cases. Therefore, we ask that the institution of automatic filing, automatic signature, be introduced. Our further problem is that there is no progress in the public administration of justice. In addition, we have urged before to establish a separate law on the publicity of justice. It is not the case - and this is particularly popular in corruption cases - that certain documents are landed at certain press agencies and there has been a long silence in other cases. Publicity of justice should be dealt with in law, including investigative proceedings or judicial proceedings. Such backgrounds, after such government intentions, were clearly aimed at allowing the person appointed by a two-thirds majority and appointed by Viktor Orbán, Péter Polt and Tünde Handó, who could freely direct cases from one court to another, following such precedents, in the present bill - just so that Secretary of State Répássy did not intervene, the 22nd and 23rd. I am talking about sections 2 and 3 - these proposed rules are, at least, received with some suspicion. What's this about? You want to introduce the following institutions in the bill 22-23. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the They wish to allow court secretaries to be assigned to the Ministry of Justice. [[11.20]] Here it is written in black and white in the 22nd. I will also read on page 39 of the explanatory statement, if the Secretary of State so requests, that both ministry activities, i.e. secretary and judicial activities, which are carried out in the Ministry under the supervision of the Minister, will be considered to be judicial activities. The ministerial evaluation, i.e. a political evaluation, will be a call for proposals when a secretary or a judge who previously acts as a quasi-public official in the IM wants to serve as a judge. So it's about someone acting as a court secretary in the Ministry, getting a so-called professional evaluation from a politician, and then he can be appointed a judge without a word. I believe there may be professional reasons for this, but in light of the history, we have the suspicion that Fidesz doesn't want to create another cadre teacher, and wants to fill the judiciary with judges formed in his own image. We are persuadable, Mr Secretary of State, that this is not the case, which is why, on the one hand, it should have been discussed, one; two, this rule would have been different, or the rule that judges who do not actually act as judges in the OBH would be a judicial activity if the number of secretaries or judges assigned to the OBH or IM were at least limited by the bill. This, for example, would be a solution. But the fact is that we do not read any limitations from either the original law or from the legislative amendment proposal, which would at least limit the number of secretaries or judges that may otherwise be assigned to the OBH or the judicial wallet, or the number of judges who have been trained in the OBH or IM, and who can be re-elected or appointed as judges at the same time or within a certain period of time. But in addition to political suspicion, there is also a professional concern, since the fact that it has not been automatically recognised as a judicial activity that someone in the OBH, the IM, or a court secretary could not be assigned to the judicial wallet, there have been professional reasons for being a judge in this country, who, by the way, has already had enough time in court, so that he has obtained professional practice in court. That was the technical reason. So, again, I find that we may be able to hear reasonable arguments from the Secretary of State or the President of the OBH, but even if there are arguments to consider in the wallet, it would be fair from a professional point of view to limit the number of secretaries, judges or boundaries that can be ordered to the OBH or IM, to limit the number of judges who have previously spent their professional time at the OBH or the judicial wallet within a given period. So, on the one hand, we have a political concern, we cannot get rid of the idea that the Judge's Office and, above all, the judicial wallet are intended to be used as such a fidesz-judicator, but on the other hand, we have a professional concern that if they fill the judiciary with a multitude of people who have not worked for a longer period of time in judicial professional, judicial activity, or who have not worked within the judicial system as court secretaries, this will undermine the level of judicial work. The fact that a person spends five years on administrative and administrative tasks at the wallet or OBH and is then appointed immediately as a judge does not at least make the judicial work better. In conclusion, in its present form, we are therefore unfortunately obliged to reject the entire bill, and we ask the professional wallet either to separate the parts of the law on judicial status from the bill, and then, of course, the proposal - although it does not need the support of the opposition, but - we can vote on it or initiate a five-party consultation on the judicial status side. We have said, I think, on the part of all three opposition parties, that under what conditions we would otherwise be able to negotiate whether it is the 22-23. The proposals set out in Section 2 of this Article are being met and we have also stated what other warranty requirements we have for the law on judicial status in order to ensure that in Hungary a judicial system on which the shadow of political influence cannot be raised. I stress - I have also said this in the debates three years ago - Mr Secretary of State, we are not saying that concrete political influence or pressure is being exercised on specific matters. We claim, on the other hand, that the current system and, in particular, the intention set out in the bill is that ministerial staff can be immediately sent to a judicial pulpit, at least not preclude suspicion of political influence. I think it's our job to focus on keeping his shadow from being cast on any judge, not on any judicial organization, not on any political influence. Since this law does not dissipate these shadows, it introduces new shadows into the judicial system, therefore, and in this form, we cannot support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-12-34	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Before we go any further, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2015-05-12-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor because I think that some misunderstanding needs to be clarified, or at least I am trying to resolve some misunderstanding. First of all, Mr Schiffer, I am sure you know - I have already informed you that Congressman Bárándy has not been informed - that on 5 May I myself wrote a letter on behalf of the heads of all five parliamentary groups on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, in which I specifically drew attention to the fundamental provisions of the law and described the reasons for and who initiated them. At the end of the letter, I specifically suggested that we look forward to the factions' feedback and whether they would initiate negotiations on the matter. This never came back. Obviously, this may have been due to some lack of flow of information, but let's say, Chief Schiffer, I believe you received this letter personally. [[Dr. András Schiffer nodds.]] I accept that, despite this, there is no support for the bill, but we have initiated a consultation on the fundamental provisions of the proposal. Otherwise, the provisions - I really just don't want to go through the fundamental provisions because of time saving - are not exactly as Mr. Schiffer quoted, because the law is not 22 and 23. In its paragraphs, only Article 22 shall apply. In Section 5 of the Act, there are indeed substantive amendments - [[Dr. András Schiffer's intervention:]] You may know better, but what really matters is 22. It is in paragraph 23 because it is in paragraph 23. § 3 already applies to others - all of which were initiated without exception by the National Court of Justice Office. Of course, it does not follow that you should support this, nor does it follow that you should support the better functioning of justice. Right? So we're not sure we're all here for the same reason in Parliament. I believe that the initiative of the President of the National Court of Justice is a proposal that explicitly facilitates the work of the courts or, if you will, the administration of justice. I don't want to cause any tension, except that you said you wouldn't vote for it, whatever's in it, whatever's in it, whatever kind of negotiation there is, I don't want to change that too much, I just want to say that it won't hurt the Ministry of Justice or the government if you don't vote for these provisions, but it will hurt the justice system. On the one hand. [[Laszlo Varju: The blackmail...]] If you are interested in the functioning of justice, and there is a proposal to make justice work better, and you do not vote for it, and I call attention to that, so consider it extortion. What I can tell you is that it has not occurred to us that you are not looking at the proposal itself, that you are not evaluating the fundamental provisions of the proposal, but that you are doing so under certain political or, if you will, policy conditions. [[11.30]] We understand that, we understand that, but obviously the bill will not be withdrawn by the government, because we believe that the initiative of the National Court Office can be supported by the Ministry of Justice and the Government. I hope that this can be discussed with the representative of the OBH at committee meetings, so where we will have a detailed discussion, why these provisions are considered important. So I think we have a way of discussing the proposals in detail. There are some mistakes I'd like to make here. First of all, Mr Schiffer spent a long time discussing the threat to the independence of the judiciary when he received instructions from the Minister of Justice, a subordinate secretary or even a colleague from a court. I would like to inform you that there has been an institution in the Hungarian administration for quite a long time between a subordinate judge and a subordinate prosecutor, but it has not yet occurred to me that because someone has worked as a subordinate judge or a subordinate prosecutor in the Ministry, his independence of justice can be called into question. So I don't know what makes you think that a secretary has doubts about his independence, while a subordinate judge can work in the ministry for a decade - there was and there is an example - and then you'll go back to judging and they'll say that he's already been given instructions by Minister X.Y. Not only is there such a model in Hungary, there is also a subordinate judge and a subordinate prosecutor in other countries. Obviously, there is a limit to this, so no political resolution is expected, to be more precise: it is expressly prohibited from such a judge or prosecutor, and therefore, in general, such judges and prosecutors do not make statements in whatever position they would be in the ministry - i.e. in leadership position - giving statements from which any political conclusion can be drawn. But there are a number of other limits to this, for example, to state leaders, so let's say that a subordinate judge or a subordinate prosecutor cannot be an Assistant State Secretary; but I note in parentheses: there may be a Minister for Foreign Affairs, and there is also such a Minister for Foreign Affairs. So I think it's a little misleading for us to think that judges or prosecutors in the Ministry of Justice will definitely become politicised or politically involved by working there. That's why I'm asking you to reconsider. There is no correlation between judicial advancement and judicial evaluation and professional activity in the Ministry of Justice. There's no connection! I think that's justified by the practice of several governments. There were judges who worked under certain governments, who later returned to judge, and it did not occur to me, at least I do not know that there was a problem with their independence. In any case, it specifically assists the Ministry of Justice. Mr Schiffer, if you will allow me to address the two very important, otherwise not for the first time, conditions under which you are willing to support the amendment of the law on the status of court or the law on the organisation of court: one is the issue of automatic division of cases. We haven't had a chance to talk about it yet, but there is an automatic division of cases. There's automatic signaling, there's practically a presidential order, which is automatically signed by the president. So you're right, Mr. Schiffer, that it hasn't been written in the law for the last 25 years, but that's how it worked, according to the president's instructions. I note that it is no coincidence that it is not based on the law, because automatic signature would mean that cases would be measured into pieces, so a very complicated case would also count as an arrival, and it is possible that by accident or automatic signaling it would end up with a judge who is already very busy. So I think that automatic signaling should not be maintained in such a rigid way, that is my position, but obviously, if we are going to debate about it, then it is worth thinking about, because it can lead to chaos if the most difficult cases are always on the same judge; just think about the problem in a smaller court where there are fewer judges. There have been many other points, and I am trying to answer them, and I am answering them now to clarify some misunderstanding, as I said. With regard to the judge appointed for a fixed period, the law previously stated that the judge appointed for a fixed period must have at least 18 months of active time spent in judgment in order to be able to assess. Thus, it was not previously a condition that he had to spend the three years in full with caselaw; this was, moreover, a typical reason for protecting the mothers: that, in order to have a child, young beginner judges, they should not be excluded from the possibility of moving forward. At present, the OBT rules state how many cases you have negotiated, you have to have a negotiated file to assess it. In English: The National Judicial Council has already interpreted the laws in force to be assessed only on the basis of the number of cases negotiated. So, obviously, those who can't produce this, who can't handle so many negotiated cases, won't be able to appreciate it. So the current bill does not want to change this rule. About the secretary's position, we didn't have enough civilized, screaming arguments. The secretary in the OBH... - is it not only in the Ministry of Justice, the National Court Office, there are subordinate secretaries or subordinate judges, and the time spent in the OBH or IM is an extra point in the tender assessment. So it's not some kind of judicial evaluation or evaluation of your work, it's a kind of competence, just like if you had a PhD or other... [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] That is, assuming that this is because they believe that practice in the judicial administration body has some value, or even that practice in codification in the Ministry of Justice - because, in this case, codification - has some value. (Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.) This does not constitute an exclusion or even an exclusive advantage, but an extra point as other competences, i.e. language exams, PhDs and others. That is why the regulation is currently so. Obviously, the secretary and the judge... I don't even want to talk about it anymore, because they know that when they're assigned, of course, they can't practice judgment under the law, that's out of the question. There were a few other things here. With regard to electronic communications, the government recently adopted a decision stating that there was indeed a delay of almost six years in the introduction of electronic communications. So in this sense, we agree with the assessment of the situation, so we agree with how we have come to this point, but you misunderstand, because the government is about to end the era of this delay, and this law would no longer allow a further delay. By the way, the OBH proposal would have requested an additional deferral until 31 December, but because of the last six years, this deferral cannot now be granted. An administrative exam - such questions have been raised by Congressman Bárándy. To this day, the judges still conduct their exams in court management, which is part of the training of court authors, so there is no problem that judges have to understand how to conduct the case - this is part of the drafting training. By the way, if he was previously a judicial employee and administrator, then he could obviously take a separate examination of this as an administrator, and then he doesn't have to take an examination of this in the course of his essay, so there is an exemption, but let's say that there is an administrative examination now. [[11.40]] Now, I think that's a lot of points. I would like to respond to one more suggestion as to why these questions were put in a bill. This is indeed possible, as it might be possible to regulate in separate laws. However, the part of the amendment of the law of the court and the law of the prosecutor's office is not of such weight, it is not so extensive, in a sense the part of the prosecutor's office can be regarded as particularly technical, so the wallet thought that it would form a judicial package and therefore submit to the Parliament a bill of justice. Thus, certain judicial laws are linked in this proposal, and we believe that this will help the application of the law, because it can enter into force at the same time or that provisions which otherwise have mutual regard can enter into force on nearly identical terms. So this isn't a typical salad. The salad laws are characterized by a loose or no link between the laws that have been drawn up. Here, the provisions on judicial matters are specifically linked. The deadline for the implementation and transposition of the EU provision is very near, so a close deadline makes it necessary for the Parliament to accept all of this. I would like to say once again that we are ready to discuss the two-thirds section, although it is best to consult the Chair of the OBH in the Committee on Justice, for example, and to learn from him why these proposals are being proposed. After all, I ask that you consider adopting the bill. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-12-36	Dear Parliament, Now an independent Member has the opportunity to comment, but I see that he does not want to live with it, so now we have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-05-12-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to ask for a normal word, but I just wanted to raise two problems as soon as possible and eliminate them. Because, Mr. Secretary, during my speech, you said twice that it wasn't the way I said it was. Well, I'd like to quote you. I'll give you the paragraph number right away. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: It's being amended in section 5, Mr. 42/B. The President of the OBH may assign the Secretary of the Court to the Ministry of Justice for the purpose of taking part in the preparation of legislation, dealing with cases of mercy or carrying out other tasks requiring judicial work experience. It is true that it is a new provision, and it is true that secretaries can be assigned to the Ministry of Justice. So factually, I'm just saying, what Mr. Secretary said is that it's not what I say it is, it's what I say it is, because it's written here, and it's a new provision. The other thing I also complained about, Mr Secretary of State, is that it is not as I said, that it does not count as judicial work in the case of a judge appointed for a fixed period of time if he is doing such work. 25/A. Paragraph 2 is amended as follows. I'll tell you earlier, Mr. Secretary of State. You're the one who tried to move it a little differently, but I'd like to say that's what the law said. Twenty-five. For the purposes of paragraph 2 of this Article, the duration of the post in the OBH shall not be considered to be an actual judicial operation. It doesn't count as one. Now this section comes out compared to this, and a whole new section is practically classified as such. So these were the two statements that you said weren't true, what I said. I think it's true, at least according to your law. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-12-38	I now give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy in two minutes.
u2015-05-12-39	Congressman, I propose that we really discuss these provisions in the detailed debate, because we are now in a general debate. Let us discuss, for example, why the National Court Office proposes these amendments. As to the problem of the secretary assigned to the ministry, I do not understand that if a judge can be assigned to the ministry, and if there is no reservations about the position of the judge, because I say this is not a new institution, but an institution that has been in existence for a long time, then I do not understand exactly why you object to this, so that the court secretary can be assigned to the ministry. In addition, the secretary may now be an elderly person with a lot of work experience. After all, we know that if, let's say, someone already has an exam, he doesn't start as a writer, he starts as a secretary, who, for example, applies to the court, and after a 10- or 15-year internship, works as a court secretary in the courthouse, there are practically court secretaries now, for example, they have professional experience in the field where they have served as a secretary in the field of judgment, which may be necessary in the ministry. To give you an example in the infringement cases. It is well-known that court secretaries act in infringement cases, or at least in most cases of infringement, court secretaries act. I think that's reason enough to assign secretaries to the ministry. In addition, the secretaries are ultimately subject to the same non-political rules that I have just said, so they cannot make political statements or engage in political activities. The secretary is not a judge, but there is a very strong policy-free obligation to be a secretary. Therefore, I ask you to support, at least consider this provision. I don't feel as dangerous as what was said here.
u2015-05-12-40	I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer for a two-minute comment.
u2015-05-12-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State has just said that if the opposition does not vote for this proposal, it does not want the quality of the justice system to function. What are we talking about? For the time being, you are proposing that it should be considered a judicial activity and that a person who has spent the previous long-term years not being a judge can easily become a judge. So the reason why we're here is to back off a little bit, because if something threatens the quality of justice and judgment, it's precisely by opening the door to the free passage of a judicial pulpit by people who have spent the previous years not in judicial activity. You can shake your head, Mr. Secretary. That's what it says here. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: There are countries where this is true, that first you have to be a lawyer!]] In addition, the 23rd floor. § 2 is of concern to us precisely because in the development of the tender ranking the Minister gave an assessment of the court secretary's case-law time, the court secretary, who can then sit on a judicial bench. Let's fix something, it's either a slip or it's a misunderstanding. I did not say that if someone works as a court secretary and then becomes a judge, he will receive political instructions from the minister on specific matters. That's bullshit. I didn't say that, Mr. Secretary. I only claimed that it was at least a concern that a person who, on the one hand, did not have a good professional record could become a judge, because he did not perform a case-law or did not work in favour of the case-law, and, on the other hand, he could be declared a winner on the basis of the assessment of a minister. That's our problem with this story. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-12-42	I now give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy again.
u2015-05-12-43	I would like to convince Mr Schiffer that it is not from the devil that there will be judges from lawyers who did not carry the judges' bags before they are appointed. [[Dr. András Schiffer: His minister! But it's madness from Jobbik's ranks.]] By the way, there are countries, the Anglo-Saxon legal systems, where, after a long legal career, someone will be a judge. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Congressman can be a constitutional judge!]] However, it would be highly desirable that the extremely extensive Hungarian justice system, the extremely extensive Hungarian court organisation, should at last consist of a few percentages - I think it is now likely to be 1-2 percent - of judges who have not only gained the experience of their authors or secretaries. This does not mean that the professional conditions of the appointment of a judge do not have to be met. [[11.50]] This does not mean that a person can be appointed a judge otherwise without the competences necessary for the appointment of a judge. So I'm not saying someone should just sit over here. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] About, say, a civil servant's job. I note that I consider that it is possible, however, to appoint relatively quickly some special judicial activities - I mean, after a short preparation - persons with administrative skills, for example, such as administrative jurisdiction. With the administrative judge, there's no reason why someone as a subordinate has worked in any capacity in the ministry. So I don't think it's possible to talk about people with judicial status as a completely homogeneous mass. Moreover, I believe that if a judge took the oath and appointed the President of the Republic, he will be able to proceed with impartial judgment. If we didn't believe that, it would be a big problem, because that would mean we couldn't expect the judges to be impartial. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-12-44	I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre for a two-minute comment.
u2015-05-12-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I've been pressing a button for a long time, and it's not that timely, but I'd still like to ask for the words of Secretary of State Répássy myself, and I've tried to write it down literally. He said, Mr State Secretary, it is not certain that the purpose of opposition parties at the moment is to improve the functioning and modernisation of the judiciary. For my part and for Jobbik's part, I would like to reject this in any way in the strongest terms, as we have said here today - and I think all opposition parties have been partners in this - what we consider to be good in this law, and we have said what we do not consider acceptable. I do not understand, Mr Secretary of State, how it is, why we will be the biggest barriers to the Hungarian judiciary if we do not support the appointment of a court secretary by the President of the OBH to the Ministry or the National Court Office, or that the employer of this court secretary will be the Minister of Justice, he will be obliged to accept instructions from the Minister of Justice, he will exercise all employers' rights over him, these people, these court secretaries will obviously gain an advantage in the ranking of applications, because - you said, Mr State Secretary - it will mean extra points that they are working in the Ministry, so they will have an advantage over a plain subordinate secretary. I do not understand why, if we make this an excuse, we are the main obstacles to the modernisation and functioning of justice. Well, I strongly reject that, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-46	Ladies and gentlemen, No one's registered in writing. Now we're at the end of the two minutes, and a normal circle begins. In this circle, too, I give the opportunity first to Csaba Gyure.
u2015-05-12-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! So if it's not two minutes old, I'd like to go back to the law and say a few more words about notary procedures. Basically, we also consider the changes to the rules relating to the notary procedure to be positive, as the more precise requirement, I think, is a positive change in the regulation of the document-processing procedure, in the signing process, in the tightening of the procedure for making the document known. A positive change is also the tightening of jurisdiction, as it also guarantees confidence in the justice system in Hungary and in the organisations that are next to it. I think the fact that the reading is mandatory has already been done; it is a different question whether it has happened or not. Obviously, in many cases, practicing lawyers have faced the fact that there has been no reading of a 25-page notary in any form, although the other question is that if read or shredded, the client may not understand it. It is very right that strict rules will apply to this, and that if there is no other option, it should be determined in hours or minutes how long the reading took, and indeed the initial date and the date of its end should be included. I have already spoken about the electronic procedure, and the Public Prosecutor's Law is also extended by the electronic procedure, the possibility of electronic administration. The introduction of electronic forms is very good, as a very large part of society is now regular Internet users, so they can easily download these forms. Obviously, during the electronic procedure, the process of mailing itself is also canceled, so this is already accelerating the process of administration in itself. And here's what we support, all the representatives of the opposition parties have said. So what we support here is speeding up justice. I do not think, by the way, that there is a single party member sitting in this horseshoe, a member of one of the parties or factions who would not have an interest in speeding up the functioning of justice in Hungary and improving efficiency. I do not assume this about any opposition party or even the ruling party, and otherwise I rightly expect neither you nor the Secretary of State to presume, nor to say such things if we do not like the law, that we want this overall, because that is not the case at all. All parties have expressed their concerns about the pivotal parts, and I do not want to repeat them on my part. On the subject of the conciliation, the Secretary of State said his position. Obviously, it is very right that, in all future cases, the five parties will agree, only this discussion should be meaningful, and, as has already been said, the discussion should not be about me announcing the conciliation, negotiating, but I will not take into account at all what the opposition or opposition representatives have said when preparing and presenting the concrete proposal. The debate on the salad law has been held here, and we have heard about it, and the Secretary of State has said his opinion, which could possibly be accepted. However, I agree with certain parts of myself that the statements by the Secretary of State are logical, but overall, I think that in this bill there are legal institutions so far apart, which I believe should not be discussed in a bill, but should be dealt with in a separate bill. So that's why we don't like the salad law. The other issue is that, unfortunately, the political experience of the past four years has been that, on many occasions, legislation has been smuggled into the salad law, which has been tried to enforce in the final provisions or in hidden paragraphs, in case it slips over and the opposition will not notice. So we already accept such salad proposals with skepticism. Let us recall that, in the legislation on the powers of the Constitutional Court, XX of 1949 was included. Law 24 § 5 of the Act, which was about the need for the majority consent of four fifths of the Hungarian Parliament to accept the concept of a new constitution. Well, he was trying to slip through a salad law. Well, he's been noticed and he's become a patalian. That's why we don't like salad laws, which is why we don't think they're lucky. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-48	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer next.
u2015-05-12-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Then I would like to return to what you have mentioned here in connection with the conciliation and lack of coordination. It is true that a few days ago I actually received a letter from you, thanking you, informing me that this bill will be submitted and, by the way, what are the reasons for each section. I received this on a Thursday, and I was, to be exact, abroad, in Vienna, my colleague, Bárándy, was kind enough to draw attention to the fact that there is such an initiative on your part. I think this cannot be seen as an attempt to negotiate. It is quite interesting that when a fisheries law finds out that there is a cardinality clause - this would be worth a few rounds, that a legal system has been developed where two-thirds of the most amazing political, sectoral laws are being broken, which is actually making it difficult for you to govern - so, in a fisheries law, a specific State Secretary's invitation to a five-party consultation is coming. You have informed me of the reasons for submitting a bill; this is not an attempt to negotiate. [[12.00]] I would also like to confirm that in recent months the LMP has participated in every five-party consultation; if the judicial portfolio had initiated a five-party consultation on this proposal, we would have taken part in this consultation, as we will be going to the five-party consultation on the implementing law on Thursday. So let's just say that the government has not formulated a five-party consensus. The other is, Mr. Secretary, I was trying to convince you that 22nd was and indeed 23rd was. If, on the one hand, there had not been a history of judicial policy in 2011-12, the wishes set out in the articles would be acceptable. On the opposition side, we cannot dismiss the fact that you have abused the two-thirds majority of them in the previous years, and that only external pressure has been removed from the intention of two persons nominated by Viktor Orbán to be free to direct cases from one court to another. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Following such precedents, we have to give our blessing to an amendment that allows court secretaries - according to a tendency, however, the majority of young people who have recently graduated - to be assigned unlimited numbers to the judicial wallet, and then the professional evaluation is given by the Minister of Justice, so it is given by a politician, and my fellow Member Gyüre indicated that, yes, the time spent at the OBH and at the judicial wallet is an advantage in the tender, and a professional evaluation given by a politician is also part of the tendering criteria, so it is not possible to go on the opposition side after such a history. I made a suggestion that you did not respond to what would then be, for example - but this could most certainly be discussed at a five-party meeting - if, for example, the 22-23. The intentions set out in Section 2 of this Article would simply be limited to time and number limits. So if you were to say that in a given period no more judges or court secretaries can be assigned to the wallet, the ministry, or the OBH, or within a given period of time, no more than that number of persons who have spent their time at the OBH or the Ministry as appointed court secretaries or judges, so if there is a top ceiling for this, which we agree on, I will not rule out that 22-23. We can also accept the direction of the proposals set out in Section 5. But you didn't have any intention of doing that either, Mr. Secretary. As far as automatic signature is concerned, of course, what you have said is that it is clear that it is merely by law that the head of the court distributes cases on the basis of which criteria to specific judges, you are right, Mr State Secretary, that in itself it can actually paralyze the functioning of the justice system. But it's one of the extremes. The other extreme, on the other hand, is what is a bit amusing - as you know - that a presidential order currently provides for automatic hand-off. The President's orders are not legal. All we ask is that the laws provide for the automatic settlement of cases, and the president of the OBH is authorized to work this out in a presidential order. But at the moment - and it is no excuse for me to say that it was no different in the last twenty years, it is not right that it was not so - my problem, Mr. Secretary of State is that the organizational law does not provide for automatic settlement at all, so there is not even enough in the organizational law to authorize the rules of automatic settlement, or the establishment of it, to the president of the OBH. It would be more than nothing, but it doesn't have that, and I think we could make a little more precise rules in the judicial organizational law. It is wrong not to have done so in the last quarter of the century, but that is no reason not to change that. A lot of things have been wrong in the last quarter of the century, and we are here in the Hungarian Parliament to try to eliminate the disability of the last quarter of the century. Mr Secretary of State, to sum up, an opposition contribution can be obtained to be assigned to the judicial wallet of judicial secretaries or court secretaries, and to be appointed as a judge, and that the ministerial evaluation should be part of the tendering criteria system, if this is the case with a five-party consultation, and the five-party agreement is reached on the framework for how many judges, how many secretaries can be assigned to the wallet and the OBH within a given period of time, and how many of the secretaries and judges appointed to the OBH, the Ministry can be included in the judiciary within a given period. In this case, I will continue to maintain my view that it is extremely worrying to make a ministerial assessment as a condition of appointment as a judge as part of the judicial tender criteria. If the court is an independent branch of power, then a political assessment - even if it evaluates the operation within the administrative system - cannot be a condition for a ministerial evaluation, it cannot be a consideration of the appointment of a judge. I would ask the Secretary of State to consider these aspects. If you understood our words clearly, and in this, I think there was agreement between the opposition parties, not only can we broadly agree with the two-thirds part or the parts outside the judicial status law, but we could also reconcile, where appropriate, with the proposals for two-thirds of the legal status if we agree on the framework within which these can be contained. If there is no agreement or agreement in this regard, after the history of the 11-12, we are obliged to use the suspect case that you wish to use the judicial wallet as a fidesz judge's breeder, and to do so, it is obvious that the opposition cannot give its consent. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2015-05-12-50	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to start with - since the Secretary of State responded anyway, and thank you for our suggestions - because someone does not think the idea of the president of the OBH is right [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Doesn't mean it's going to be against the interests of the courts. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] Mr Secretary of State, for example, I thought the President of the OBH was particularly bad - he had not yet filled this position - his idea of transforming the whole court system, and thank God for the foreign and domestic pressure, including opposition parties and domestic experts, the Venice Commission and the European Commission, had to reconfigure about 80 percent of their substantive provisions as far as the judicial system is concerned, even though the OBH president, the later OBH president, had the idea, and the judicial association in which he played a very active role. But here's another thing: the fact that the possibility of transferring cases has been removed from the Hungarian legal system has certainly served only the benefit of the Hungarian legal system, even though the president of the OBH agreed with it. In fact, if we are going to remain authoritarian, then, Honourable Secretary of State, you are not always looking to the interests of Hungarian justice. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Sometimes not!]] as one of their most recent legislative proposals was taken in opposition to the opinion of the president of the OBH [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Yes!]] and were debated before the Judicial Committee because they disagreed with what was the professional position of the OBH. [[Dr. András Schiffer: How can you be like this?]] I mean, in Hungarian, Mr Secretary of State, the argument to me is that the President of the OBH wants this, it is not like that the great leader wants this, or that perhaps that is what the Pope of Rome wants, because obviously in that environment it is an authentic opinion; here it is an opinion, an important opinion of many, but one that if one does not necessarily agree with, it is not equal to not having the interests of justice in mind. [[12.10]] Believe me, Mr Secretary of State, and in this respect I share what Congressman Gyure has said, that those of us who speak regularly on the subject of justice in Parliament, in the colors of any faction, want the benefit of justice, and I can even say that, if I think about it, we have all worked within the framework of justice in a different capacity and for a different length of time. So you can be sure, Mr Secretary, that all of us are looking for the benefit of justice when we speak here. What you've given me is a foreign example of who becomes a judge, and almost immediately a judge of other professions, that is absolutely correct. However, I have two comments. One is that an Anglo-Saxon system is completely different. As regards the whole legal system, the legal concept, at all, as far as the state's operation is concerned, there is a completely different role for a parliament in the Anglo-Saxon legal system than in the Hungarian legal system, in the continental legal system. The theory of the division of powers rests on different roots, and, of course, the image of judicial power is completely different from that of Europe. It's not better, it's not worse, it's different. Thus, the aspects of selection are different. However, I would not be disqualified from introducing a similar or partly similar system here. For years, I have admitted that it is right to establish the interoperability of legal careers, i.e. to become a judge, to be a prosecutor, to be a lawyer, to be a lawyer, to be a lawyer, to be a lawyer, and to be able to combine this system in all kinds of relationships, so in all kinds of ways. But, you know, Mr. Secretary, there is a huge difference between the system you're proposing and what you've mentioned and what I'm talking about here. What you've been talking about, and I've been talking about, is that there's a lawyer who's spent a long, long time in the justice system, doing meaningful work, negotiating in the courts, not as a judge, but as a prosecutor or a lawyer, and that makes him a judge. That is, he has a lot of judicial experience, because he was involved in the negotiations, and he is given a different role by being appointed a judge. What your proposal now contains is that if someone spends a lot of time, say, in the HR department of the National Court Office, or in the Ministry, in a job that may only be relevant to the work of the court, then from now on, without otherwise having any case law or judicial practice, he can be appointed a judge who judges for an indefinite period of time. That's the problem. Because if a lawyer has been appointed a judge for 20 years, it is likely to have much more to do with the customs and the course of the trial than with an otherwise qualified person who has formally served as a court secretary or appointed judge for a limited period of time, otherwise spends a long time in the ministry, in a completely different job, where appropriate, in an administrative position. Because, Mr. Secretary, the fact that you have to carry out a task requiring judicial work experience is a concept of rubber which, apart from physical work, can be pulled on anything in a Ministry of Justice. After all, the Ministry of Justice deals with justice, so obviously almost all the tasks he does are a matter of substance, which requires judicial work experience. You are not writing a task requiring judicial work experience in the law, but a task requiring judicial work experience. And the two, obviously, I don't have to explain to you that it's not the same at all. If, for example, this provision contains a restriction on the possibility of having a secretary in the Ministry of Justice, say, to perform codification work, who is at least 5 years old, has a practical time in the administration of justice, or, say, at least 15 years of teaching experience with a scientific degree, I can imagine what the point is. Because if he's been a prosecutor for 15 years, and right now, because he's changing careers, he wants to be a court secretary, that doesn't mean that his 15 years of prosecutorial experience is lost, it's worth assigning him to a codification job, because he's an experienced field expert. The same can be said of lawyers, or the same can be said of academics, who, as far as I know, are being recruited by the Ministry of Justice, quite rightly. So I have the problem with this, other than what Congressman Schiffer said, that, indeed, man, especially based on the experience and experience of the last five years, has this strong feeling that you want to use this measure as some kind of cadre instructor, but let's put it aside. I'm saying that, unfortunately, in the five years we've had, you've made us feel this bad, Mr. Secretary of State. I already have a problem with the fact that they want to hire a secretary for civil servant duties or as a civil servant or a government official. Because the court secretary, who doesn't have any judgmental experience, doesn't have a long history and practice in court, what the hell could that do to help, say, in criminal or civil codification? There may be only one special area, perhaps, Mr Secretary of State, which you have mentioned, that is the right to infringe; now, you can perform these, secretary, so that you can make such decisions in cases of infringement by a secretary. But I think that you can find a designated judge from here who has acted either as a secretary or as a judge in infringement cases, so the category, therefore the principle is amended, I think it is not worth it. And in the end, I have a question, and I would be happy to have an answer, because this system, which is now being presented to us and outlined to us, shows me a kind of career picture. A career picture that I really don't like, and I hope I'm wrong about that, that the law makes that possible, and I have to look at it again. That someone can be a judge from a secretary appointed one day ago for an indefinite period of time without a single moment in court. Because if I look at the possibility of having a secretary in the Ministry of Justice or the OBH, take the Ministry here - because I can say that the OBH is at least responsible for the administration of the court - it can be ordered into the Ministry and spends the required one-year secretary period there, but consider it two or three, because it is now the general before and then appointed as a judge, and this is the most important question, my primary question: can a secretary be appointed as a judge who spends his term of office in the Ministry? That's my question. Because if it can be appointed, then, unfortunately, this career model, which I have outlined, is playing, because with the appointed judge, this period, the three years can be spent in the ministry, and then it can be appointed for an indefinite period. That's also the new rule you're about to introduce. That is, if what I am saying is true, Mr. Secretary, then someone will basically spend the time of their authors in court, then become a secretary, quickly enter the ministry, there is a fixed-term judge, appoint him for an indefinite period of time, and pass judgment that he has not spent one day outside his term as a writer in a judicial capacity within the framework of justice. I ask the Secretary of State to assure me that this is not the case, and I ask you not only to reassure me by saying that this is not the case, but also by adding the legislative feet of why not. However, ladies and gentlemen, I say that these are the problems that perhaps raise the most serious problems with the bill, and until there is a substantive change in this, this certainly cannot be supported. I didn't know that, and I admit that, Mr. Secretary of State's colleague sent me the notification here during the debate, which he sent to Mr. Group leader about the bill. [[12.20]] This can be interpreted as a five-party initiative, and it can also be interpreted as sending in writing some of the comments we have on this. I would like to ask you to be clear that you really want to have a five-party dialogue with the two-thirds laws. And I will look into why the letter and initiative of the Secretary of State did not reach the relevant representative or professional and political leader within the group. Dear Secretary of State, All I ask is that there be discussions on these issues, because the proposals that opposition representatives make, they wish to guide and get accepted by the Parliament, believe me, are also for the good of justice, in our intention and position. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-12-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr Csaba Gyüre, Mr Jobbik Group. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! I would like to mention four more things very briefly. On the one hand, Mr András Schiffer spoke about the modification of the rules on the allocation of files, the automaticity of this. They had a debate with Mr State Secretary on how this allocation was to be made. In part, there is the process of this automation, but the Secretary of State has said that it would not be good for automation, because matters are not of equal weight, they are difficult, and obviously only people can consider them. That is why I would like to tell Mr Secretary of State, although he is currently in a meeting on how the case files are being distributed at the moment. This automatic file allocation could also be automatic because it is currently used to weigh these cases, when the case arrives, it is roughly reviewed, weighted on this basis, each gets a score, and the scores are based on the allocation. If this were to become an automatic, it would be possible to do so, since on the basis of the scores, a weighted distribution of the file burden would be broadly proportional. So what my fellow Member Schiffer said about this could be resolved. Mr Secretary of State has suggested that greater interoperability should be achieved, and that is what my fellow Member, Barándy, has just talked about between the posts of judges, lawyers, prosecutors and other lawyers with exams. In this regard, I have heard quite a lot of speeches here in the last five years, and I have heard a speech about this from the pro-government lines, even from the secretary of state. But I don't think anything happened about that. It was the Minister of State who spoke about domestic Hungarian justice in his speech. In this respect, it would indeed be good to have a change, since either lawyers or prosecutors have a great deal of judicial experience and, where appropriate, decades of experience that could be used as judges in completely different roles and roles. So it would certainly be a blessing to me if we managed to make any kind of change in this way compared to what we've done before. In his speech, the Secretary of State spoke about the 10 percent increase in allowances for secretaries, court and prosecutors. The additional increase is welcomed by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. Over the past four to five years, we have indicated in many speeches and said how unworthy the salary that the people working in justice have, and we have also brought comparative data from the European Union, which makes it clear that, taking into account the starting judicial salaries and the salaries of the starting prosecutors, which are laid down by law, Hungary is far from the last place, so in Hungary the Hungarian judges and prosecutors are looking for the least. In addition, when President Tünde Handó's hearing took place, I presented the statistics that show that Hungary would only leave the last place even in the case of a 30 percent net wage development, and that we would be competing with Latvia to prevent Bulgaria even in the case of a 30 percent wage development. So that's what's going on. In fact, there hasn't been a wage development in practically 12 years, and the real wage decline is amazing, it's more than 50 percent during this 12-year period. So today, judges and prosecutors at the top of the justice system earn about half as much as they earned 10 or 12 years ago. That is why we should not only raise the salaries of secretaries and sub-consultants, but also 30-50 percent of those working in the whole justice system, because, as I said, we would only be in the top-of-the-last position of the European ranking if we raised 30 percent. I think that the quality of Hungarian justice that we have today deserves more. What I would also like to mention is that Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, explained in detail to Mr Secretary of State the problem of the rankings of applications when the secretaries apply for a judge's office, why they cannot be accepted when they receive extra points because they have previously served in the Ministry of Justice, why they deserve more points and an advantage over a secretary who has studied judicial practice for years, for many years, and now there are those who, for a decade or more time, and why those who work in the Ministry have an advantage by giving him an evaluation. I do not want to go on with this; I think that has already been said by all opposition representatives who have spoken in the debate. I think, Mr State Secretary, here the criticisms of the opposition side, which overall make the bill unacceptable, have been quite specific. And I think that, in the vast majority of the bill, it would bring fundamentally positive changes, and I would certainly suggest why there should not be a five-party agreement in this, why we should not go there, that the government would also do some resignations for a positive thing, that the author would also do, and that we could basically pass a positive bill, and that we could even carry through the fundamental part of the two-thirds law. I think that the opposition expressed its criticism in this, that the ball is pumped up, that it is passed on to you. I ask you to stand positive, and then, I believe that we can adopt a good law in Hungary with a five-party agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Attila Móring József.]]
u2015-05-12-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I just want to respond to you saying that there's an in-depth course of justice, so it's definitely a good idea for outsiders to get in there. Yeah, well, you guys have a lot of routine, because it seems that the constitutional court was so extensive that you had to parachutize your own people, Members of Parliament. Mr. Secretary. The situation is, however, that if it is really about increasing professional standards, then why is it an advantage that someone in the Ministry or OBH has completed the required professional time, because at the moment this benefits you. If you are led by that consideration - not by the intention of power policy, but by the thought - that there should be knowledge in the judiciary that a judge who spends 20 to 30 years on the judicial bench may not be able to obtain it, then I think it would be possible to approach the criteria a little more creatively. It may be said that a judge may have, say, an administrative practice, spent time in the administration, but perhaps a more important aspect than becoming a judge is, for example, putting an administrative lawyer in the judicial pulpit, who may have child protection experience, having building experience, judging cases of misconduct. I think that would be a more serious professional reason, or a more serious reason for this to be an additional score for the professional update of the judiciary, so to speak, than for a ministry bag carrier to be planted there. You're telling me that you can't be a judge just by carrying your bag to a judge. Very good, Mr. Secretary. [[12.30]] Therefore, you choose to be a judge carrying the Minister's bag. I'm sorry, but this is ridiculous. If there really are professional reasons, other aspects should be evaluated with additional points in the application; for example, when a lawyer has acquired special administrative experience. That's not what's happening. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-12-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, rapporteur on the agenda, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2015-05-12-57	Yeah. Thank you for the floor. I am almost pleased that I can get the floor after Mr Schiffer, because he concluded his two-minute speech: you have the intention of being a judge who carries the Minister's bag. Dear Congressman, I'm really sorry, but believe me, it's true now. Article 4 of the Law on the Statute of the Court of Justice. Paragraph 1 (f) to (b) provides that a judge may be a judge who has worked, inter alia, as a government official or as a civil servant or as an administrative or legal expert in a central administrative body for at least one year. I will read the whole section to make it clear that a person of 30 years of age may be appointed as a judge in Hungary who is a) Hungarian citizen, (b) who is not subject to administrative or assisted decision-making of capacity, (c) has obtained a degree in university law, (d) has passed the legal exam, (e) undertakes to make a declaration of property in accordance with the provisions of this law..The main point is that he has worked for at least 1 year as a court secretary, a deputy attorney, a lawyer, a notary, legal counsellor, or as a government official or a public official in an administrative or legal profession of a central administrative body, or has previously acted as a constitutional judge, judge, a military judge, prosecutor, or as an international organisation or a lawyer in a body of the European Union, or as an agent of justice-related activity, and is capable of exercising a judicial profession based on the result of the results of a judicial examination. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now, now that we both know that civil servants can be judges, I'm saying that both of you, because I just watched the law, so I don't want to teach you, why should you be afraid of the office of the court secretary? Why should you be afraid, and why should you think that the court secretary will be politicized if it is written in black and white that a civil servant can be a judge who has been a civil servant for at least a year and otherwise meets the other conditions of a judicial appointment? Then he can become a judge, and I think it's normal for him to work as a civil servant or a government official, or in a job normally subject to a legal exam. So, where appropriate, if someone does not work as a civil servant in another body, but works as a legal expert, then he can be a judge. So in principle - I stress: in principle - the door to becoming a judge is wide open - in principle. But technically, we know who they're gonna appoint to judge. When you are appointed a judge, we all have a responsibility to make the court inexplicable, because when the appointment is made, the points, the hearing, the tender award will show that, after all, only the judge who carried the judge's bag will be able to be a judge. Now, I think we should change this system together. He is right that it is a matter of detail whether or not secretaries can be assigned to the ministry, but especially after being able to be a judge from a civil servant, at least not to consider the secretary assigned to the ministry as a political threat of some kind. So really, honestly, if a man who worked in a ministry for 20 years or even 5 years as a civil servant can be a judge, then why is it wrong that he worked as a secretary for 1-2 years, and then he can be appointed. We talked about the legal status of the junior judge, didn't we? For the junior judge, according to the current rules, it's Bt. 60. The judge may be assigned to the Ministry for participation in the preparation of legislation, for the purpose of dealing with cases of mercy or for the performance of other tasks requiring judicial work experience. The judge assigned to the Ministry shall retain his position of judge, but shall not judge. The rules applicable to the judge shall apply to its application. A Judge appointed for a fixed period shall not be assigned to the Ministry. This is what we want to change. The Minister for Justice shall exercise the powers of the employer over the Judge assigned to the Ministry. The judge shall comply with the management measures, instructions and facilitate their enforcement. This is the current rule. And I probably didn't look at the old court status laws, but there were similar rules. So what's new is that judges are being assigned to the Ministry. A man who has taken an oath under the law, who is conscientiously working, can distinguish between doing judicial work, judging, or performing other professional tasks with a judicial background and legal status. So, unfortunately, the point is what you've been saying after the last five years and after what happened in 2011-12, you're making such assumptions. I accept that and accept that. All I'm asking is that this suspicion or mistrust should not be confused with the objective examination of things, rules. Because if the rules are written in black and white, and these rules have been in operation for years, even decades, then behind these provisions there is no reason to look for mistrust or to raise trust issues. And as for the negotiation, I'm very sorry if you misunderstood the letter we wrote. Of course, we intend to be available at any time for a five-party discussion. However, this debate has now been good for at least seeing which provisions they object to. Of course, if we had received the comments in writing sooner, we would have known. Anyway, I think that perhaps from this debate or from the amendments to be tabled, we can see which is the fundamental provision for you that cannot be accepted. If there is one, the Ministry of Justice will, of course, consider accepting your amendment. Because if these provisions are only partially accepted by the Parliament, I think it will do more than completely rejecting the fundamental provisions. So what I want to say to you is that I would encourage you that, of course, there is still a deadline for submitting an amending proposal. If you think that we should leave some of these fundamental provisions of the law, then in order to have a consensus, I think the government will be open to that. Obviously, I cannot say this for every proposal right now, but please mark it in its amending form or in writing, in the form of comments, what you do not agree with. And then it's worth discussing from here. This law is not a law for which full, five-party consultation would have been required, since only one section of it contains two-thirds provisions. It is true that there are several points in this one section. If there are provisions acceptable to you at this stage, let us proceed in this way and try to accept it. If you have taken offense at the fact that we have no common determination to facilitate the functioning of the justice system, I apologize if I assume that, but I ask you to really look at the bill itself and not to try to back it up or reject it with some other political perspective. Rather, I suggest we see if this is useful for justice, whether it really is reasonable provisions. If you consider it eligible, we will welcome this. For the record, the world is not collapsing if the two-thirds provisions are not voted, they see that 99 percent of the bill is not two-thirds; so the world is not collapsing. It is simply that the National Court Office, with the consent of the Ministry of Justice, believes that these provisions can improve the functioning of justice. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[12.40]]
u2015-05-12-58	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of you and on behalf of myself, on behalf of the Parliament, to welcome Mr Kim Tae-Whan, Head of the Korean Interparlamental Union delegation and members of the delegation, who are present at our official visit in Hungary. And perhaps you'll allow me to welcome Mr. President in person, because we met in South Korea, and I can welcome him as a personal acquaintance, and it rarely happens in the Hungarian Parliament. Allow me to give a special welcome to Ambassador Jym Geun-Hyeong, who, with his presence, will also welcome our meeting. The delegation came to Hungary at the invitation of Mr L. Simon László, President of the Korean Group of the Hungarian IPU. We wish you success in your further negotiations and a rich stay in Hungary. Please enjoy your stay at home in our beautiful capital. Dear Parliament, Before we move on to our next item, we're going to have a two-minute technical break. Mr. Secretary of State has been in the Chamber for a very long time under the agenda. Thank you for your understanding - two minutes. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Thank you for your understanding, we will continue our work. There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain criminal law laws until closure. The submission is T/4643. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I declare that, as said at last week's meeting of the House Committee, the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-12-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2012, a comprehensive reform of criminal justice began with the creation of a new criminal code. The second stage of this process was adopted in 2013 by the Law on the enforcement of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of infringements, which replaced Decree-Law No 11 of 1979 on the enforcement of penalties and measures as of 1 January 2015. The new Code of Correction places much more emphasis on educating prisoners and promoting their reintegration into society in order to protect society and people. To this end, as of 1 April 2015, a new legal institution, reintegration detention, has expanded the toolbox of the prison organisation, allowing social reintegration to take place stepwise, given the entry of a stage of life supervised by public authorities between total deprivation of liberty and responsible self-management, which may last for a maximum of six months. It is a great service of resocialization that during this period, the sentenced person can provide his or her own livelihood, seek and take a job, conduct studies, reconstruct and strengthen his or her family and social relationships. This greatly reduces the risk of the prisoner falling back. In addition, it is an undisputed advantage of reintegration detention to reduce the burden of prison institutions, but without the convict avoiding a worthy punishment. The primary objective of the bill before you is to ensure full consistency with the rules of law which are closely linked to this new legislation, and to ensure the conditions necessary for the proper and effective functioning of the system. At the same time, the other reason behind the proposal is at least as important. In the framework of the criminal justice reform already mentioned, a wide-ranging consultation of law enforcement bodies has been launched, with proposals to address the problems identified by case law. On the basis of the comments made by the parties to the justice system, the bill seeks to remove difficulties in interpreting the law, speeding up procedures and transferring amendments to improve efficiency. Finally, the role of this bill is not negligible to ensure compliance with our international obligations and full consistency with EU law and to make the necessary changes to existing criminal law laws. [[12.50]] I would first like to present to you the main amendments to the Criminal Code. The facts of the Criminal Code sanctioning prison escape are added to the context of reintegration detention. Under the new rules, a person who, during the detention of reintegration, leaves the home designated for him and his/her fenced place or his/her place of residence on the agenda, in breach of the rules of reintegration detention, with a view to excluding himself from the execution of imprisonment. It must be made clear to the condemned that reintegration is not a favor, nor a grace, but a part of the execution of the sentence, and that opposition to its rules has severe consequences. In the case-law, there was a problem with the simultaneous application of the provisions on specific, multiple and violent multiple relapses and criminal offences with rules on the imposition of a set of penalties. The bill makes it clear that the specific provisions on multiple, violent multiple relapses and criminal offences, if these conditions exist in relation to the crime in question, prevent the criminal set of rules from being applied. The Btk. the provisions in force only govern the subsequent judicial discharge following the publication of the judgment in respect of the prison sentence to be carried out. In view of the fact that the probation period for a suspended prison sentence may be up to five years, and in that period, the sentenced person may be entitled to conduct an action on the basis of which his judicial immunity may be justified, even if he has not been granted prior immunity, the amendment creates a legal background for the possibility of ex post judicial immunity in the event of a suspended sentence being imposed. The bill complements and clarifies the facts of corruption crimes. Thus, in the spirit of zero tolerance in the field of the prosecution of corruption crimes, failure to report bribery to officials is now punishable by all corruption offences, and not only the most serious. Corruption crimes have a high level of visibility, so in order to increase detection efficiency, the amendment will also allow for unlimited mitigation in terms of the acquisition of influence and the distribution of influence. This will greatly help to ensure that big fish are not unpunished because of corruption. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I'll be curious.]] Today, the organisation of illicit gambling is increasingly making online gambling available through the provision of an IT device, a communications device. Since, under the rules currently in force, this activity can be assessed as aid to crime at most, the tightening up to be introduced by the amendment extends the behaviour of sui generis in the organisation of illegal gambling to the provision of the instrument. The law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies establishes a new career model for law enforcement bodies, one of the novelties of which is that the role of rank changes significantly after entry into force. Btk was needed in connection with the construction of a new system of careers. to supplement and minor modification. The bill establishes a comprehensive criminal law regulation for value reconciliation, in line with the provisions of the Violent Crimes Act. In addition to infringements of property rights, the rules of value reconciliation are extended to infringements of copyright or copyright rights, infringements of industrial property rights, the placing on the market and imitation of a poor quality product, as well as customs infringements. This tightening means that if a person commits several such offences, but their total crime value exceeds the criminal threshold, he should no longer be liable for an offence, but for a crime. The following changes to the law on criminal proceedings are worth highlighting. Recent trends in drug trafficking and the financing of terrorist acts are increasingly taking place via the Internet. In order to combat these unlawful practices more effectively, the provision allowing for the imposition of a forced action by temporarily preventing access to electronic data to temporarily render electronic data temporarily inaccessible is complemented by those offences. Given that the issue of the enforceability of detention in place of a court is a systematic problem in judicial practice, the bill clearly settles the statute of limitations of the criminal prosecution. In accordance with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right to information in criminal proceedings, the documents on which prior detention is based must be made available not only at the time of the imposition of the compulsory measure but also at the time of its extension, to the defendant and the defender, in the event that, following the last judicial decision on the subject of prior detention, any document relevant to the enforcement measure, which forms the basis for the new motion of the prosecutor, was issued. In order to comply with this requirement, the bill amends the Be. its rules in force. In addition to the above, the bill also provides for further clarifications and technical amendments to the law on criminal proceedings. Several amendments and additions to re-integration detention will be made to the Act on the Enforcement of Punishments, Measures, Certain Forced Measures and the Enforcement Act. The proposal lays down rules on jurisdiction other than general in the criminal proceedings to be conducted during reintegration detention. The reason for this is that the sentenced person under reintegration detention is in a designated apartment, which he can only leave for a specific purpose and should therefore be established for the location of the apartment. It is noted that the prison probation officer is also involved in the monitoring of the rules of conduct on reintegration detention. According to the bill, the penitentiary protector can manage the personal data he has acquired during the assessment of the apartment to be assigned to the execution, the preparation of the environmental study and the verification. At present, the Code of Penalty does not take into account the possibility, in terms of the consequences, of a later occurrence of a non-reintegration detention for the designated housing. In view of the fact that this reason may not be affected by the behaviour of the sentenced person, it is therefore possible to designate a new residence as the place of enforcement of the reintegration detention. The amendment makes it clear that the prison judge should decide not to grant the sentenced person conditional leave while at the same time abolishing reintegration detention. In order to fully comply with the information directive, the bill sets out the content of the information and clearly identifies the stakeholders involved in the information. It is not justified for the prison judge to decide, on the basis of a hearing during the judicial review procedure, to reject the application for a judicial review on grounds of lateness, exclusion by law or non-righteousness on grounds of origin, since, in such cases, a deficiency can be established on the basis of the available documents alone. In addition to the possibility of proceeding on the basis of documents, the bill also provides a legal basis for judicial secretaries to act on such matters, subject to the burden of the execution judges. The current legislation of the Code of Penalty also leads to an interpretation that the National Command of Penalty Enforcement calls to begin the execution of imprisonment should be issued out of order in the case of multiple reprimands and those sentenced to five years or more of imprisonment, but it does not need to call on prisoners to begin at an extra-ordinary time of imprisonment. [[13.00]] In order to remove this misunderstanding, the bill makes it clear that multiple relapsers and those sentenced to five years of imprisonment should also begin to receive the sentence as soon as possible. Some Bv institutions operate a religious department, the legal basis of which needs to be established. At the same time, it is appropriate to state that, as for other special departments, prisoners may be placed together regardless of the degree of execution and that the duties of the reception and detention committee should also be reflected in their duties. The proposal sets out the conditions for placing in the religious department and the cases of termination of such placement. In practice, several times, the police intend to establish or promote an arrest warrant for a convicted perpetrator who has been convicted of a criminal offence for the purpose of downloading detention or detention outside of office hours, but this fails, because the bv institution cannot accept the persons indicated under the current rules outside the term of office. The bill will remedy this problem. In the light of the feedback received from the practice, it can also be concluded that the provision of the Code that the prosecutor exercises the right of disposal in respect of the execution of the prior arrest pending the court's decision in the course of the hearing. Based on experience, in some cases it would be appropriate to delegate this right to the investigating authority. The proposal also provides for this possibility. The bill will make changes to the consent of prisoners to maintenance. Motivation for participation in education is limited by the requirement that the young person contribute to the maintenance of the scholarship, which is why the proposal states that the young person is obliged to contribute to the costs of holding it only if he is engaged in employment or has regular cash supply. In the event of the settlement of the maintenance contribution, there is a problem that some of the prisoners work not 8 hours but part-time, and therefore, in the interest of legal certainty, the basic labour fee and the reduction of the amount of the contribution to maintenance costs should be arranged at the level of law. I would not go into detail because of the technical amendments envisaged by the proposal or the barriers to uniform interpretation of the law. All I would like to note here is that these improvements have been developed with the involvement of the law-abiding people in order to meet the best practical needs. Finally, the bill also implements minor corrections to other laws. In order to ensure the coherence of legislation, the proposal amends the Prison Organisation Act and the Child Protection and Social Management Act. The Btk. The amendment of its provisions on corruption offences justified clarification of the references contained in the Act on the Rules of Action against organised crime and related phenomena and related legislative amendments and the Law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. The amendment to the annexes to the Law on Legal Assistance in Violations was partly due to changes in the Law on Violations in the meantime and partly to the need for legal assistance to be applicable to infringements of copyright or copyright-related rights, as well as to infringements of industrial property rights. In view of the fact that the proposal implements the comprehensive criminal law regulation of value reconciliation, it has also become necessary to supplement certain facts of the infringement law with the rules on value reconciliation. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of a brief presentation of the main amendments, I hope that it has become apparent to you that the bill drawn up on the basis of feedback from the practice can effectively help the enforcement of the law. The changes envisaged in the proposal, either to the coherence, development of internal law or to compliance with international law or to tighten up, play an important role in ensuring that our criminal justice system functions more effectively, faster and more uniformly. In view of the fact that the benefits and disadvantages of legislation, and in particular of the more extensive codes, can only be assessed in the light of practical experience after its entry into force, the comments of the parties to the judiciary should always be monitored by the legislator. A number of provisions of this bill are the result of the discussion of these comments and the joint work with those concerned. In addition, the new legal institutions, in particular the provisions relating to reintegration detention, as well as the rules for the fulfilment of our international obligations, were included in the proposal after a similar wide-ranging consultation. At the beginning of my opening speech, the efforts highlighted serve to ensure a smoother functioning of the legal system, and these objectives can only be achieved through the adoption of the bill. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Vigh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of May, the government presented the proposal that we have just discussed, which concerns the amendment of certain criminal law laws. On the 25th of June 2012, Parliament adopted Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, i.e. the new Btk., which was Act IV of 1978 at the beginning of July 2013. replaced by law. Btk., although not a fundamental law, is one of the most far-reaching norms of its importance, whose re-regulation is integral to the legislative process which, following the adoption of the Fundamental Law, constituted a review of the most important elements of the legal system through fundamental and code-like laws. The new Btk. However, the creation of codification work in this area of law could not be completed, as the period since its entry into force requires a number of amendments to law. The bill before you contains the legislative amendments that have been required since the entry into force of the new Criminal Code by the problems encountered in the case law. These are primarily criminal legislation, but other laws governing matters also contain a large number of references to criminal substantive provisions. I would now like to get to the details, first of all, of the amendments within the Btk. In the case-law, there was a problem with the provisions on specific, multiple and violent multiple relapses as well as on criminal activity in the criminal organisation - Btk. 89-90. § 4a - simultaneous application of the rules on the imposition of a setatian penalty. The proposal makes it clear that the first assessment of the criminal offence in the pool should be that it was committed as a specific, multiple, violent multiple relapse or criminal conspiracy, and that the set punishment should be imposed only after this assessment has been carried out, on the basis of the penalties thus already incurred. The next issue was the suspension of imprisonment. In the case of suspended imprisonment, the regulation of judicial immunity is the Be. And the Btk. is not entirely coherent when compared to its wording. In order to address this problem, the proposal provides a legal basis for the possibility of ex post judicial immunity in the event of suspended imprisonment. [[13.10]] The proposal's next intention to amend the 2012 Annex II on infringements, infringement procedures and the system for the registration of infringements It covers the subject of statutory value reconciliation. In view of this, there is room for value consolidation if the perpetrator commits theft, embezzlement, unjust acquisition, or economics, fraud, deliberate destruction, mistreatment, and misappropriation. In such cases, it is necessary to establish a legal basis for such acts to be considered already in criminal proceedings, as as a result of value reconciliation, the aggregate value-added value exceeds the crime value limit. The new Btk. prior to its entry into force, it was considered that a number of offences could be committed through the electronic communications network, such as acts of terrorism, fraud and copyright infringement. In the past, there was no legal requirement for such unlawful content to be rendered unavailable by the determining authority. The parliamentary decision on a national drug strategy sets out, among the tasks in the field of supply reduction, the need to provide for the temporary inaccessible electronic data to investigate drug trafficking, pathological addiction, the promotion of drug production and investigative procedures based on a well-founded suspicion of new psychoactive substance abuse in criminal proceedings. In view of this, the proposal mentions the need to make electronic data temporarily inaccessible by supplementing the above mentioned criminal offences. The next notable amendment concerns the arrest in advance. In accordance with EU requirements, this proposal provides that the documents on which the motion for prior detention is based must be made available not only at the time of the imposition of the compulsory measure, but also at the time of its extension, to the defendant and the defender in the event that the motion for an extension of the pre-trial detention refers to a new circumstance as a reason for the extension. Finally, I would like to move to the next large area to be amended, the 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of infringements. Law. In this respect, the proposal sets out several amendments. It makes it clear, inter alia, that, in the case of multiple relapsers and imprisonments with a content of 5 years or more, not only the call to begin the execution of a prison sentence, but also the start and end of the sentence as soon as possible. It is also intended to speed up proceedings so that, in the course of the judicial review procedure, the prison judge may decide on the application for judicial review on the basis of documents without being heard on grounds of lateness, exclusion by law or refusal from a person who is not entitled on grounds of origin. The new rule to be introduced by the proposal, which allows the prosecutor to delegate the right of disposal to the investigating authority in some cases, as well as the provision allowing him to be admitted to the bv institution for detention, in some cases beyond his term of office, is also intended to ensure that the procedure is carried out more effectively. In addition to laying down the rules for implementing the new sanctions, the proposal also includes other clarification amendments facilitating the application of the law in order to speed up the procedure, reduce administrative burden and increase cost-effectiveness. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-12-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The fact that it has become necessary to submit this Law on Criminal Cabbage proves once again the low level of legislative activity of the Orbán government. Although there are some new substantive elements in the bill, the majority of the amendments can be seen as a correction of the laws adopted between 2010-14. The amendments concern in particular the provisions of the Criminal Code adopted in 2012 and the 2013 Prison Code. Of course, errors and inaccuracies occur inevitably in the case of such a far-reaching code containing hundreds of paragraphs. However, for example, the rules on criminal offences were not simply typified, but the government was forced to propose to remedy the problems of coherence seriously affecting legal certainty. However, not so much in the case of the penal code, but rather in the case of the prison law, the Orbán government's unacceptable quality of legislative preparation. This bill also confirms all the criticisms expressed by the MSZP in the debate of the Bv Act in November 2013. We have already - and I personally too - said that the government has adopted a fundamentally forward-looking, but inadequately prepared law, which has not been properly agreed with Parliament throughout the profession. We have also shown that there is a lack of basic human and material conditions for implementation. Of course, as usual, you have ignored these criticisms. Then, in November 2014, a few weeks before the Code came into force, they were forced to amend more than a third of the new law, that is, paragraph 70. A number of provisions of the new Code have been rewritten, clarified, supplemented, from the exercise of the right of access to the file to the rules of risk assessment and classification of the prisoners. A few weeks before the entry into force, they tried to make the new law work, make it applicable, with this innumerable amount of modification. On 1 January 2015, the prison law entered into force after such a precedent. However, as soon as its practical application started, several shortcomings in the law failed. Although not even half a year has passed since the entry into force, the Parliament is already obliged to negotiate another amendment to the prison law. That's what I'm talking about, unfortunately. In addition, they have learned nothing from new professional failures, since even this, the new proposal of the improved law, has not been properly settled. Not only has it not been negotiated with trade unions in the sector, but not even with the Hungarian Law Orders Faculty, to the best of my knowledge, Mr. State Secretary, you have just made the Hungarian Police Faculty a public body of the law enforcement staff, among other things. I ask you: what professional work are you going to do for the Hungarian Law Orders Faculty if you do not even ask your opinion on the legislative proposals concerning their activities? Therefore, for the third time on the subject of the Prison Enforcement Act, we are obliged to say that the proposal submitted is unacceptable because of the way in which the legislation is prepared and the lack of conditions for its implementation. But even from a codification point of view, a perfect new bv code would simply be called into the wilderness without a comprehensive modernisation of the prison system. Well, there's hardly any evidence of that. The crowding of Bv institutions has not eased anything, and its average saturation has increased from 137 per cent in 2012 to 143 per cent by the end of 2013. [[13.20]] In addition, the working conditions of the Bv stock are terrible. Many Bv institutions can do their job only with extremely tight farming, using a constant, significant amount of overtime. Although the salary of the Bv stock will increase from 1 July, there is also a lack of special rules on the set-aside and recreational of the Bv stock due to the new Act of Service, even though the closed institutional environment, the day-to-day guarding and supervision of the inmates, is a particularly high psychological burden. No meaningful results can be expected from the existing rules-resolving salad laws. That's not what they're trying to do. Their sole purpose is to make the new laws that have been broken even applicable. A fundamental rethink of the criminal policy of the Orbán government is needed to achieve merit. We've told you this many times, and I don't want to go into detail right now. We consider the so-called dual-gauge criminal policy to be the way forward. We all know this here in Parliament, what it covers and what it hides. It doesn't mean mindless tightening up, it means proper tightening up. It means that serious offenders should have full rigour of the law and, above all, imprisonment, but alternative sanctions would indeed be justified for criminals who committed a minor crime for the first time. In this way, it may be possible to eliminate or at least reduce overcrowding. Of course, the government is also trying to wrap this fundamentally technical package of amendments in packaging, which is what the Secretary of State did in his opening speech. And this colorful packaging is the promise of anti-corruption action. Indeed, the bill amends the rules on corruption-related crimes on several points. In essence, however, there is only one substantive change in the package of proposals: according to the bill, any corruption crime will be punished if the official who is aware of it does not press charges. Ladies and gentlemen, The fight against corruption is extremely important. We've been arguing a lot about this in Parliament these days. And corrupt officials must be severely punished. Under normal circumstances, it is also expected that officials should report a corruption-related crime. However, everyone knows that corruption raised by Fidesz to the legal level is the biggest problem in today's Hungary, and institutionalized state corruption. If you really wanted to fight corruption, you would have adopted our anti-corruption package, which would have, among other things, eliminated corrupt conflicts of interest and made public tenders transparent. This was rejected without reason by my fellow members of the Government. In addition, I would add, of course, that any opposition initiative that would make it transparent what taxpayers' money is being spent on will be wiped out. It was just yesterday that we were able to witness the rejection of such an LMP proposal, and there was only the debate, and today the Parliament voted against it. Instead, what proposal do they come up with? To be terrified of a small clerk who doesn't dare to report his troubled bosses. This is a very two-faced form of the fight against corruption, while in front of an entire country, the Fidesz lords hand out the land, the tram, and build a football stadium next to their house, and the rest. Because didn't companies and individuals whose names were read among the sponsors of the high street stadium buy influence, not decision-makers, or, more specifically, the number one decision maker? Corrupt administrators may and must be punished, and may and must be required to file charges. However, first, clean up your house, and first, eliminate institutionalized state corruption. In the context of the few substantive elements of the bill, I would like to refer a few more professional aspects to the attention of my fellow Members. The proposal allows religious departments to operate in the Bv institutions. Convicts may be placed in the religious department regardless of the degree of execution. This will be interesting, of course, that the man convicted of murder will be put in the same room with a traffic violation, which would otherwise not normally occur in the prison system, but this is obviously worth a separate debate. In addition to the more relaxed regime rules, placement in the department is a great advantage for inmates to participate in religious ceremonies with their relatives, which does not include the time to receive visitors. The establishment of the religious department can undoubtedly benefit from the social integration of prisoners. Integration in and compliance with the rules of a religious community can help to strengthen integration into society and compliance with standards. At the same time, caution should be exercised when drawing up the relevant rules. Under strict prison conditions, placement in the religious department can be a very significant advantage. On the basis of the bill submitted, it is quite possible to obtain the benefits. In the beginning, it will depend on the agreement between the Bv institution and the religious community whether such a department will operate in a given institution. Whether or not a particular prisoner may be there, the reintegration officer will make a suggestion after consulting the jailer. In our view, the function of the religious department should be regulated in more detail in the law. For example, legal guarantees should be provided that prisoners belonging to certain religious communities should not be placed at an advantage or disadvantage compared to those held by other religions. The creation of such a situation would be a concern both from a moral point of view and from a fundamental point of view. To be quite specific, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you this, and I would like to ask you an answer as to what this will look like, only Christians, or even Catholics, in a narrower sense, will have the opportunity to do so, or, let us say, it will be possible for Buddhists, Islams and Jewish religions. I am only asking you this, Mr Secretary, because if this actually means tangible benefits, as I have just mentioned, for example, that more often a relative can be placed in such a religious department, then what is the solution. Let's say that a believer of a less established religion in Hungary precludes himself from these advantages, because within the framework of the prisons, he is likely to be able to do so in few places, or should, let's say, go to a Catholic religious department, even though it is not his religion? Or are these gonna be some kind of ecumenical communities? That is what I am saying, that the regulation is not sufficiently developed, and we do not really know how it will be possible to meet both the moral and fundamental rights aspects of religious freedom and the prohibition of discrimination in this area. The bill amends the rules on issuing things seized in criminal proceedings - to go further on the subject, because there is very little time. The seized property is issued or may be issued if there is no place for confiscation or confiscation. At present, the rule is that the value of the seized property must be paid with interest if it is sold during the seizure. The bill removes the obligation to pay legal interest from this provision. I'm asking why. Because if there's a place for seizure, confiscation, then it's clearly a situation, so if it's a criminal property. But if, in the end, let's say, it turns out that the seizure was not justified, then why not give the legitimate interest to the person from whom the authority otherwise wrongly seized something? This seems fairly unfair, and we will also present an amendment to this. I understand that this is a saving for the state, but I believe that once again, the principle of the right to property and fairness is not in line with this provision, Mr Secretary of State. Overall, in the absence of time, I can say that the MSZP, together with the amendments that have just been tabled, cannot accept the new Btk. and the prison law. [[13.30]] As I said, with appropriate short stories, when it comes to it, they will be able to be modified, despite the fact that we see a lot of forward-looking rules in it. Moreover, it is also feared that this new, new legislative amendment will open up at least as many questions - see, for example, what I mentioned about religious issues - as it solves, so we cannot support the bill in its current form. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-12-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-65	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4643 presented by the Ministry of Justice on the amendment of certain criminal laws. The adoption of bill No.3 by Parliament would make the rule of punishment clearer for violent and repeated offenders. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the bill, it would constitute an escape from prison, a violation of the rules of so-called reintegration detention, which was recently introduced in the prison. But what does reintegration detention mean? That with this penalty, convicted offenders will spend the rest of their imprisonment in their home, up to 6 months, which, under the legal conditions, may be permitted by the prison judge. The prison judge shall include in the decision the rules of conduct applicable to convicted offenders, the place of residence of the sentenced person and the area of movement. The security of this new method of enforcement is ensured by continuous monitoring and by the use of a remote surveillance device placed on the final convicted felon's limb. According to the above, the legal situation of the prison escape is broadened, i.e. a prisoner escape is also committed by a person who leaves the home assigned to him during reintegration detention and a fenced place in violation of the rules of reintegration detention with a view to excluding himself from prison. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the case-law, there has been a significant problem with the simultaneous application of the provisions on specific, multiple and violent multiple relapses and criminal offences with rules on the imposition of a set of penalties. The bill makes it clear that, when imposing the penalty, it is necessary to assess first whether the crime in the set was committed as a specific multiple violent multiple relapse or criminal organisation, and that the set punishment should be imposed only after this assessment has been carried out, on the basis of the sentence thus raised. In order to resolve these legislative conflicts, the bill also provides for the possibility of ex post judicial immunity in the event of a suspended sentence. Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2012 II. on infringements, infringement procedures and the system for the registration of infringements Law 177. § 6 states that there is room for value consolidation if the perpetrator commits theft, embezzlement, illegal acquisition, or economics, fraud, deliberate destruction, fraudulent treatment by causing this amount of damage and property disadvantage. The bill also provides that if the aggregate crime value would exceed the crime threshold as a result of the value reconciliation, the acts should no longer be assessed in accordance with the rules of the infringement procedure but in particular the rules of criminal proceedings. Corruption crimes have a high degree of vision due to typical M.O. behavior. In order to reduce visibility, the bill also provides the possibility of unlimited relief in terms of the acquisition of influence and influence, so that all such corruption crimes will be guaranteed in a uniform manner. The bill also amends criminal proceedings in several respects, which are mainly as follows: the bill contains amendments to the mandatory cases of prosecutorial investigations, extending the forms of electronic contact. According to the bill, the documents on which the motion for prior detention is based must be made available not only at the time of the indictment, but also at the time of the extension, to the defendant and the defender, in the event that the motion for extension of the pre-trial detention refers to a new circumstance as a reason for the extension. In order to speed up the procedure, the prison judge may, in the course of the judicial review procedure, decide, without being heard, on the basis of the documents, on the basis of their examination, on grounds of lateness, exclusion by law or refusal from a non-holder. It is also intended to ensure that the procedure is carried out more effectively by the new provision to be introduced by the bill, which allows the prosecutor to delegate the right of disposal to the investigating authority in some cases in respect of the execution of the prior arrest, and the provision to allow the detention of the convicted offender to be held in prisons in some cases beyond the term of office. The bill also creates the legal requirement for the prison probation officer to take part in the monitoring of the rules of conduct of reintegration detention. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, please support the T/4643 proposed by the Ministry of Justice on the amendment of certain criminal laws. Bill No. 1. Our parliamentary group will also support the bill in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, will take the floor. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, With regard to the proposal before us, I have to say, first of all, what my colleague Gergely Bárándy said - ahead of me - that we are missing and missing professional discussions, because the news has come to us, opposition representatives, and so, I think, the government knew that it would have been appropriate not only to consult trade unions - but we are used to not consulting trade unions - but also the Hungarian Police Faculty, which you set up, has not been consulted if my information had not cheated. It would have been appropriate, and it would have been good to invite them on these topics at least and ask for their opinion; how they then listen to these opinions is different. And I know that this is often a technical amendment, but believe me, and the Secretary of State can say this to the government, or I ask you to give me the information or the message that it is not just about what you can get involved in, or what you might be able to modify - of course, if you take those improved comments - but consider trade unions a partner, or even the Hungarian Police Faculty that you set up. I just wanted to say this to an intro, and we will say this as long as we feel this deficiency. I would like to talk about the bill, because there are many areas that could be covered, but in most cases we see technical amendments. I'm going to tell you what's good about it and what we're criticizing. [[13.40]] In point 4, when certain proposals are made by electronic means to the defenders, this is a good direction and the right to submit and propose by electronic means should be further extended, so that we can focus not only on environmental aspects, but also on a more efficient and in many cases more rapid evaluation of the proposer. So this direction is definitely good, and it can continue to be followed in the future. At point 5, the temporary inaccessible and inaccessible electronic data will be expanded, on the one hand, which we fully support, with the case of drug offences. So if a website, say, sells drugs or substances that may be considered narcotics on a foreign website, then until the procedure is completed, it can be temporarily rendered unavailable. This is absolutely understandable, and it is also included in the law in connection with terrorist financing, so temporary inaccessible can also work here. Although I do not see cases where this would happen too often in Hungary, but the fact that this is included in the law alone does not mean that it should not be included, but its practical benefits are still limited. In the case of suspended imprisonment, ex post judicial immunity is also an appropriate option and an additional right is granted to the court. That wouldn't be a problem. There is another passage, and here I have already jumped to point 9 of the proposal, which is actually about the rank of rank, the rank of armed forces, and only integrates existing rules into the rules on criminal proceedings. I add - and I do not want to have a long debate here about whether the direction is right - it is a matter that, under the new rules, in the future, the ranks will be adapted to the classification and payment department. This may have an advantage, but the downside is that if someone is put in another position, it will also get back in the rank. This may not necessarily promote a career. But I wouldn't open the debate here because this is just a transposition of the rules on criminal proceedings, but, of course, it would have been good to consult the Law Order on these issues, and we could have known this in this case as well. At point 19, which is a substantive proposal, as my fellow Member Vejkey said, they are trying to clarify a legal uncertainty, I do not think in the right direction. In contrast to the violent multiple relapses, your proposal will allow you to sentence a life sentence if only an increase in the number of violent multiple relapses exceeds 20 years, and if other crimes are considered in a set, this will not be counted, i.e. that the increase due to the set items will not be taken into account in the compulsory imprisonment for life imprisonment. This is not necessarily good, as it results in lighter rules. So far, court practice has taken both into account, so if someone was a violent multiple relapser and committed more crimes in a set, it was determined after the calculation of the final item whether it was worth a life sentence or not to express myself in a pestic manner. Now the set will be removed from this, and this, by the way, in the case of criminals who have already done quite a lot of things, that if they are considered violent, multiple relapses, they can result in lighter penalties. So here, in our opinion, the legislator does not decide the uncertainties of case law in the right direction. We are not against reintegration detention in itself, that if this is properly controlled, it will allow for a cheaper way of implementation, and I know that we are not introducing it now, so this is also the adjustment of the rules and, more precisely, in some cases, as a prisoner escape. We can absolutely agree that whoever breaks these rules is committing a prisoner escape. Obviously, the LMP will not agree with this, and I can hear it coming from the oversight of András Schiffer, but we believe that the rules must be respected by everyone, and that if someone goes to a milder degree in reintegration detention, then they must be complied with more strictly and sanctioned if they break these rules. We can also welcome the fact that a new M.O., when a person commits a corruption crime that corrupts or corrupts a person who gives himself to an official, in view of him, asks or promises to another person an undue advantage. This was indeed a deficiency that it was not punishable in this form. I add - and this will be discussed in more detail by my fellow Member György Szilágyi - that corruption crimes still have a very high visibility, and in Hungary the problem is not the lack of rules, but, above all, corruption crimes intertwined with politics are quite simply very difficult to catch in the act, or if we catch them in the act, then justice does not reach the highest levels of politics. Let's just think that there were declarations of assets here, declarations of assets, increased housing areas, and that if we calculated that the legal income of those Members over the past 15 years has not only represented the value of his apartment, and that hasn't bothered the NAV or the D.A., then we're going in the wrong direction, because it's obvious... Yeah, and let's say our fellow Members, especially our pro-government fellow Members, were obviously able to say this about the MSZP earlier, only now the capital is a little out of place, so it's harder to recapitalisation themselves, the corrupt economic circles are always in favor of the governing parties; well, so some of our fellow Members are spending in downtown, because Budapest is not such a big city that they can't be on the basis of different acquaintances, a familiar acquaintance of him, hearing who spends a million dollars a day in their lives, so the NAV or the prosecutors could block this, but they don't. Even in clear cases where there is no thank-you relationship, or even the assets officially registered by someone's legal income, procedures will not take place, but my fellow Member Szilágyi will agree to this in detail, as I have said. We can very much agree with the misdemeanor value reconciliation, Mr. Secretary of State. This has already been a major deficiency. It is a matter of the fact that if a person does not commit crimes against property, in a way that does not exceed the threshold of infringement, or we can list copyright rights here, so they are smaller, but often violated, the industrial property protection, poor quality product, is very important, it is also included in this circle; so that if they are committed several times by the same person within a year, then they should be assessed together, and if the threshold of HUF 50 thousand, which has already been drawn very high, it should be considered as a crime. Here, by the way, we often criticized the fact that the HUF 50,000 is high. Of course, statistics can be improved here, or I will also have to say this here, before the Parliament, so that in many cases - and this is a practice, believe me, Secretary of State, in the police and prosecutor's office - the threshold for victims is set at exactly 49 thousand forints. Say, if a cell phone is stolen from someone, then it should be a more expensive mobile phone, which we say is obviously worth more than, say, 100,000 forints, and let's say, two weeks ago, it will not be more than 49 900 forints, according to the police, whatever happens. The same is true, let's say, for a bicycle, which is worth, let's say, a lot more. So, unfortunately, this is a bad practice, and the cosmeticization of statistics, but we're glad that this is at least the case here. Then, at paragraph 37, if the appropriate point for Btk. in the case of life imprisonment is already open, we will propose an amendment so that it can be imposed not only from the age of 20 but also from the age of 18. We don't think that's justified... [[Dr. András Schiffer: The world is not only for 20-year-olds!]] Not only do the 20-year-olds have the world, as my fellow Member Schiffer here quite rightly said, but in order to be serious, it was now possible to see in the Kaposvár Trafik heist and murder that the perpetrator could not get life in any case there. As far as I know, he is under 20 years old, but he hasn't, and I don't think it's justified in today's circumstances, and because of his weight, what serious crimes are being committed by even those under the age of 18 who are under the age of 20. [[13.50]] In the following point, point 48, for multiple relapsers and for offenders who have been punished more than five years of age, they will try to speed up their early entry into prison. This is indeed a problem in many cases, and the regulation is quite liberal, and often those who should be in prison are not there. We can therefore welcome this, but it may not be enough to call for the earliest start. But we may not only have to do this with this amendment. Finally, points 59 and 60 are quite interesting. In the case of point 59, juvenile offenders, in detention, are considered not to be motivated enough by a scholarship if the maintenance obligation is deducted from it. We do not think that this is necessarily in the right direction. If a person is detained and receives any benefits, his maintenance costs will be deducted. As it is deducted from work, it must be deducted from the scholarship. There's still some, and it's a pretty motivating force to learn at least something and not have to work if necessary. We don't think that's good in an institution. It is true that we are talking about minors, but they must also contribute to the costs. And I think the 60th point is pretty amazing. This is trying to remedy the fact that those who are in prison are working, but they are allowed to take leave - I think this is already a bit absurd, in the debate on the law of the Bv, we criticized the fact that there is freedom and leave and all kinds of stories. The LMP obviously disagrees with this, but we believe that the unsub should be in prison, except for certain exceptions. But that was their most important problem, so that it is not enough to give the perpetrator freedom, but even paid leave if he is working - well, that is absolutely amazing and absurd! Of course, it can be explained, but I think it's hard enough for society to say, Mr. Secretary, that we not only allow the perpetrator to be released from prison - people have eyes here, believe me, if we say in a residential forum that there is freedom after prison work, which usually doesn't benefit so much, that he can't raise the retention costs nearly - but then we let him go on leave, and we even pay him, which is his working day's work fee for the sum of the days spent on vacation. I'm really glad you have such important things to do, but I think it's a bad direction. In conclusion, there are very eligible proposals in the proposal, some less so. We will present proposals for amendments, and we will decide against that whether we can ultimately support it in the final vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your kind introduction to my fellow Member, Mr Staudt. The bill before us can be divided into several parts and its assessment varies from one side to another from the LMP side. I would like to start with what we very much welcome in the proposal, and the element which, by the way, develops electronic contact in criminal proceedings, makes it possible. And, of course, we welcome in itself the direction of the anti-corruption supplement to the penal code. Here in the bill there are elements that have been in the anti-corruption package of LMP for years and have been included in our amendments to the new Btk. and, moreover, voted down by Fidesz. So in itself the direction of the Btk. We welcome it as a supplement for anti-corruption purposes, we consider it correct, but we do not consider it sufficient. Some of our senses of absence are not about substantive law, but about procedural law, which we also proposed to amend partly at Be. and partly at the new prosecutor's law. While there is a proper effort in the bill to finally reduce corruption's visibility, to bring corruption crimes to light, this cannot be achieved by means of substantive law in itself, it must also change the organisational and procedural rules. In Hungary, corruption is so great that we could actually say that we are the only country in Europe, where there is no corruption, because wherever we look, at any point in the sky, we see that Prime Ministers, Heads of State, Ministers and Mayors, who have resigned from office or former in Croatia, Slovenia, France, Germany, are taking them on a ledger, while in Hungary this is unimaginable. There are two possible cases: either because there is no corruption in Hungary, or because Hungary is a country without consequences. Otherwise, I'd be willing to place a bigger bet in the latter case. All I'm saying is it's the Btk itself. It is not possible to bring corruption to the surface by sanding it. One of the reasons is that, in many cases, corruption acts do not go to prosecution, so it is in vain that anyone boasts of prosecution if, in most cases, the story dies before an indictment takes place. We also know of a number of corruption cases in recent years where there were no charges, and there was even a politician who was suspected, and then he beat his breasts, that he couldn't even be prosecuted, he played so clearly. That is why we have proposed that in criminal proceedings, in certain acts against the public interest - and not only in the case of acts of corruption, but also in the case of environmental and natural damage - the accuser, therefore the courageous citizen who turns to the authorities, because he finds a corruption case, or he perceives environmental and natural damage, should have effective means of redress. So you can move forward, whether it's an investigative journalist or a brave citizen, on a case that is considered to be a violation of the public interest. That is why we propose that, in the event, for example, of a decision to terminate an investigation, as in so many cases of corruption, the prosecutor should have the opportunity to appeal. Let's keep moving. It would also strengthen the disclosure of suspected corruption cases that remain secret, if Fidesz-KDNP had accepted the proposal of LMP in the new prosecutorial law to strengthen the public interest protection functions of the prosecutor's office, so that there should be a so-called watchdog, a watchdog, a watchdog role for the prosecution, that if various investigative journalists put out on the plac, the prosecutor's office should not be able to deviate from the fact that they did not report, but should have an obligation of its own initiative to examine the reality of these allegations. And last but not least, I must mention here, as in the amendment of the law concerning the previous judicial status, that it is essential to organise the public administration of justice by law. If there is a law governing the when and how public the various stages of criminal proceedings are, it can be avoided that certain documents in certain cases are avoided from certain press products, but in other cases of corruption there is no way of knowing where the story is. I can also mention that my colleague Ákos Hadházy filed a complaint in the case of the Szekszárd Trafikmutyi two years ago, but we still do not know what the news is, to this day we do not know whether, for example, our fellow Member Horváth's computer has been examined and the rest and so on. But we can also list land affairs. There are a number of suspected cases of abuse where we don't know anything more, like in the NAV case, we don't know where the investigation is right now. Because, on the one hand, the public administration of justice must be placed within a legal framework, but on the other hand, there must be a greater degree of publicity in criminal proceedings in cases which are contrary to the public interest. However, what we are missing in the substantive rules and we do not consider the current steps of the government sufficient: one is that LMP believes that the possibility of unlimited mitigation should be ensured until the prosecution. [[14.00]] So the government's attempt to make at least one party involved in corruption interested in revealing the act is effective if this is necessary until the prosecution. Two: already in 2010, the LMP proposed, demanded, and presented as an amendment to the new Btk. that, as the criminal code protects the protection of personal data, public information of general interest should also be protected. In Hungarian, if law requires that certain data, such as contracts, must be disclosed to a ministry, a municipality, if the publication obligation is not met by a municipality or a ministry, the competent mayor or minister should indeed go to prison. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Of course, we would also widen the circle where it is mandatory to publish contracts or tenders within a specified period of time. I'm thinking about public procurement or public land contests. For three years now, the LMP has been demanding that all competing offers be made available on the Internet after the end of the deadline. However, the circle concludes that, if this obligation is violated by the person responsible for it, there are obviously valid consequences for a tender, but there must be criminal consequences if a mayor so fucks around or a minister forgets himself so much that he does not comply with his statutory obligation to publish. Finally, we would punish the failure to report corruption, not only to officials but also to business organisations. Economic bribery, it can be perceived, is closely linked to political corruption, by the way. Dear Parliament, As for the rest of this bill, as opposed to my good colleague, I would criticise it from a completely different perspective. We continue to see the government believe in a more restrictive, repressive criminal policy, the result being that prison population is constantly growing. In Hungary there is untenable congestion in prison institutions, and so the resocialisation activity cannot exert its effect. I think that criminal policy is effective if the focus is on how people who otherwise break standards can be put back into society. For this reason, we consider the proposal declaring the breach of the rules of reintegration detention to be a prisoner's escape to be completely unreasonable. It is quite simply that, while reintegration detention follows a correct resocialisation, a resettling logic in society, the classification of the prisoner escape as a violation of reintegration detention goes perfectly against this legislative intention. There is a point in the bill, which, I think, is, by the way, quite rightly trying to establish a case for financing terrorism. Right here, the bill would supplement the criminal code with an element of fact. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, following the Charlie Hebdo assassination, LMP put a bill on the House's table in January, which would serve the purpose of enabling Hungarian law enforcement agencies and services to act more effectively against persons travelling from Hungary to the Islamic State or passing through Hungary for this purpose. I would like to draw attention to the fact that if Hungary wants to take action against terrorism, then Parliament should not operate with anti-alien incitement - not parliament, pardon, Fidesz and Jobbik - but should actually be filling the gaps in the criminal code which, by the way, provide opportunities for potential terrorists. In January, the LMP suggested supplementing the Criminal Code with a new case concerning the organisation of the terrorist group. This is not contrary to the current legislative intention. The facts of the terrorist act should be clarified in such a way that the departure from Hungary and transit through Hungary are clearly punishable and clearly applicable to services and law enforcement bodies. Finally, we also suggested adding to the situation of incitement to war in the Criminal Code, so that incitement to support terrorism or publicity to support terrorism could also be punished. These additions would also be important because each such criminal supplement gives secret services and law enforcement agencies the opportunity to act more effectively in relation to the terrorist threat affecting Hungary. Dear Parliament, At a time when the two-thirds majority, with the support of the Gyurcsányist-Bajnaist MEPs, voted for Hungary's military engagement in Northern Iraq, and it is not quite possible to see the security risk increase involved, I think that this supplement to the Criminal Code is not enough. We continue to suggest that the government consider the proposals of May Other Politics in January, and complement the facts of the terrorist act so that Hungarian law enforcement agencies can act effectively against terrorists using Hungary as transit countries, and that there are other means that provide effective action to the police and the secret services. Within criminal law, amendments that make Hungary more protected can and must be made, and these measures should be taken instead of gang banging or inciting aliens. To sum up once again, the LMP considers it important to see the progress made in this proposal with regard to anti-corruption action, but we do not consider it sufficient. On the one hand, until the procedural rules are fundamentally changed, the latency will remain, and these cases will not go to prosecution, and on the other hand, I think that the failure to publish should be punished at present. In addition, I continue to think that the repressive criminal policy which constantly sees the opportunity to improve public security in Hungary as a tightening of penalties has failed. Despite the celebrations of the Fidesz, the better Members, the result is merely an increase in prison population. Thirdly, in addition to the right action, it would be necessary for the government to consider the penal code additions that LMP put on the table in January, which would allow the Hungarian services, the Hungarian authorities, to act more effectively against those who use Hungary as transit countries to reach the Islamic State. I ask that the Government consider these proposals, and, in particular, we will obviously make our voting behaviour dependent on the fate of our amending proposals. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-12-70	Thank you, too. Welcome. We'll get back to work. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask the independent Member in the Chamber if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. In this case, since no one has asked for a two-minute speech, we will continue to work with those who have asked for a normal word. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-05-12-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My colleague Gábor Staudt has already told me a lot about this law, and I would just like to add one or two things to it. The Bvtv. 173. The following paragraph is added, says the law:. The reception of the visitor outside the institution, the absence and the duration of his departure are included in the imprisonment. Well, we don't understand why you should count. There's a court order. This court considered, took into account all the circumstances, and said that the prisoner would receive such and such punishment. I've got the discounts that the inmate will be able to get when the sentence is served. Why should we give this power in principle, say, to the bv commander, so that he can reduce the sentence despite the court's judgment? After all, if the time of leave is included in the sentence, we reduce the sentence, and the prisoner does not spend the time behind bars when he goes on leave, thus reducing the sentence against the court's judgment. In our view, this is not right, so we would definitely take it out of the law. [[14.10]] The other thing I would like to mention is that the law is now punishing not only the use or devotion of the premises in connection with illicit gambling, but also the provision of means. But it's a very, very broad concept. What does it mean to be a tool for forbidden gambling? They give you a table and say they're playing cards on it? Because let's not just talk about online gambling or think about something else. Or will someone hand over the laptop and play illegal online gambling on it? So we don't think it's precise enough to determine what the device is that is punishable in this case. Indeed, as Gábor Staudt said, I would rather deal with the corruption part of the law. The first is to say that failure to report a corruption crime is now punishable. But it's a question of what evidence. Or did you hear it already? I hear someone committed a corruption crime, and then I'm supposed to press charges without any evidence, or if I don't file a complaint, I'm gonna be in default from now on? Here is also the fact that lobbying for and in the interests of an economic organization will be punishable. That's exactly what the Btk says. ## ############################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################ (paragraph 1) of Article 2 (1) of the Act:, By referring to the influence of an official person, he or she asks for an undue advantage to himself or to another person, he or she accepts the undue advantage or promise thereof, or agrees with the applicant or the recipient of an undue advantage granted or promised to a third party in respect of him or her. Where's the line? 'Cause this one I just read, I think it fits Andy Vajna. Andy Vajna also influenced high-ranking people, lobbied in the same way for his own company, and lobbyed so well that at the moment he could deal with gambling management in Hungary as a single ruler, even at the expense of the state, and at the moment Szerencségy Zrt. Andy gave Vajna various discounts with your help. Does that mean I'm supposed to press charges right now, and they're gonna file a case? I find that hard to believe. Here is the point that I would like to talk about the changes to corruption in relation to the amendments contained in the bill before us. The general justification of the bill is very modest when it mentions that there is a high degree of visibility in relation to this type of crime. So these crimes happen every day, but unfortunately, their detection remains low. In order to improve detection and to bring criminal offences to light, this amendment is therefore proposed, according to which the perpetrator of this type of unexplored acts would be expected to alleviate or even neglect the punishment if these acts were discovered. The text of the amending proposal seeks to define precisely all the acts and actors that have threatened to be punished in order to protect the purity of public life and to protect public confidence. The intention of the authors, as I say, is noble, their efforts would be worthy of support, but... And unfortunately, there's the "but" we've told you several times, and it's worth telling you now that every law is worth as much as we respect or enforce it. This country should finally cease to be a country without consequences, and action should have consequences. Because if we look around at our close and far-reaching neighbours, who have a much more favourable position in the ranking of countries than we do in terms of corruption classification, we can find interesting differences compared to Hungary. We have already had laws to combat corruption. But has any case happened to us recently, can you mention a case that would have had consequences if it had been found out? I'll give you some examples. The Slovak Minister for Economic Affairs resigned after it was discovered that his brother-in-law had received a state order from the Ministry he was managing. Can we find a similar case at home? Say, when the Prime Minister's son-in-law receives the various orders, apparently due to specific conditions, does this have consequences? Not yet, not that I know of. I'll give you another example: the Polish Minister of Justice resigned when it turned out that he and his fellow politicians had obtained a permit to hold arms by circumventing the rules. You think that's comparable, say, to the time when you guys were handing out concession rights to your friends at the state redeployment of the tramps back home, not even paying attention to the appearance of integrity? The two are not even comparable, perhaps in their weight. The minister resigned there. What's happening here? Nothing! Everyone's still living their lives in the same way. I'll give you another example: the Spanish Minister for Health resigned when it turned out that he could gain financial benefits through a complicated network of companies. The wealth declarations of leading politicians in this country are teeming with dubious assets, whether it be luxury dwellings, dubious real estate cases or hundreds of millions of dollars. These cases were also treated with a simple shrug, saying that it was merely an accusation of envy. So we can't talk about consequences here, because none of the politicians who have been incriminated, who have found out about these cases, have resigned in the past period. Here comes the question of property declarations. They make laws, but when they have to act, they don't act. The Jobbik Hungary Movement has repeatedly pointed out that the current system of declarations of assets is not appropriate. We have seen the abuses that some politicians commit by having their family members sign up for assets they do not wish to disclose. What's the first step? Everyone who sits here could have done it. Let your family members, family members who live in your household, and their wives and children be made public. Everyone could do it on their own. Parliamentary representatives of the Jobbik Hungary Movement have done so. They go to Jobbik.hu, everyone can read what wealth our family members have. Because we have nothing to hide. Anybody who has something to hide doesn't make it public. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: The tattoo, too?]] And no one else outside the Jobbik has made it public, according to this. Mr. Secretary, if you have nothing to hide, make it public, you can. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: The tattoo too!]] Tomorrow, he'll put his family's financial situation on the website, and the voters will be very happy to finally see you clearly about, for example, your financial situation. You don't have to hide behind the Fidesz, it's a personal decision. As an individual representative, you can make that decision. That would be a huge step in the fight against corruption. Indeed, this would be a very big step. I will also give you an example: the Italian Minister of Transport, when it turned out that the family members had been given various gifts by entrepreneurs, what did he do? He's resigned! We can also give many examples of whether Hungary has resigned in such cases. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Béla Kovács resigned?]] But perhaps I'll give you an example: in the case of the Dorottya Street Hotel in District V, in which you may be involved fellow Members, they played local government property directly or indirectly through various family companies. At present, there are no consequences in this case. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: That's right, Béla Kovács doesn't resign!]] But you can be listed here, Mr. Secretary, because I can see that you don't like it. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Béla Kovács resign!]] [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Béla Kovács resign!]] When... when do you want me to? (Róbert Répássy: Béla Kovács resign!) Dear Secretary of State, it can also be described when a case emerges at the Paralympic Committee that athletes who are in a difficult situation and who work in two shifts for, say, 70 thousand forints, then go to trainings, are lost 3 million forints, and, on the proposal of Tamás Deutsch, the money of the Paralympic Association has been taken away to pay off Zsolt Gömöri, President of the Paralympic Committee. Yesterday, when I asked your fellow secretary of state, who is here as a Christian Democrat politician, whether he was morally - not legally, morally - condemning that he was being taken from injured people, he refused to answer that question. He doesn't judge you. What does that mean? It means that these people who do such immoral things in this country are protected by you. Because they kept protecting each other. [[Róbert Répássy: Béla Kovács does not resign!]] For the last 20 to 25 years, that's why we're here right now. You have sold out Hungary, so together with the MSZP in a large coalition for the past 20-25 years, and have sent it to this corruption process where it is currently in progress. We could further describe the examples, but in each of them the common lesson is the same: corruption is a harmful phenomenon in every country and every country is fighting it with different means. However, there are places where the fight against corruption is reflected in actions, and some where it only appears at the level of words, as we have seen in the last 25 years. [[14.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, It is not by means of regulation that we have to fight against corruption at the state level, which paralyzes today's Hungary, when it is those exercising state power who use the political power they have and the economic power provided by public funds to give themselves, their family members and their vassals an undue advantage. Then it is open hypocrisy to claim that by changing some of the paragraphs, we can achieve any result. As long as those who think of themselves as elite, currently exercising political authority, believe themselves to be superior to all rules and moral commands, it is not possible to achieve substantial purification by creating strategies, sayings or even grammatical cyssing of legislative texts. As long as those in the highest positions of command can do anything without consequences, arbitraryly, we cannot expect those below to do the same immoral and corrupt practice regularly at their level. Remember the old wisdom, Mr. Secretary: big money, big football; small money, little football. Putting it in the context of corruption: big power, big shit, that's what we've seen in the last five years; small power, little shit. We are not willing to accept this system, we are not willing to accept that when it comes to such matters, you are, by the way, arrogantly and pompously laughing at it instead of doing anything about it when it comes to action, you are not ever doing anything. We want to change and we will change this system. Believe me, Mr Secretary of State, as the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will govern this country, it will be a huge step forward in the fight against corruption that we will not care about what you have been doing in the last 20-25 years to give our friends an advantage of building motorways at double to triple the cost of building stadiums in the neighbourhood of our own Prime Minister, which do not make any sense to give to our friends at the expense of other people, at the expense of the livelihood of other people, the various economic sectors. We're not gonna do that. We imagine a world without corruption in Hungary, where corruption will have consequences. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-72	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No. As no one has applied for a speech, I declare that the general debate is closed. I will ask the State Secretary, the author, if he wishes to reply. Yes, please, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2015-05-12-73	Thank you very much for the floor. I am deeply under the influence of Mr Szilágyi's last speech, so I begin by saying that if Jobbik wants to fight corruption and believes that the country with no consequences must be put to an end, then he should cancel Béla Kovács' MEP, who is not directly involved in corruption, but who suspects him of betraying his country. [[Dr. László György Lukács: The presumption of innocence?]] Prosecutor's Office of Hungary. I see you are defending your representative, I see you are protecting him, and here in this Parliament you are proud to stand up for the man on whom the Hungarian prosecution claims to have betrayed the European Union, among other things, rather persistently and now in front of the public opinion of the European Parliament. Of course, this may not be a sin for you, but it is not the last aspect of what motivation you have done this out of. See if I can show you the motivation like this. What they can do to motivate such representatives. Well, before we take Jobbik's fight against crime and corruption seriously, I would, however, like to suggest to you that we return to the presentation, because there has been a lot of talk that had little to do with the presentation. [[György Szilágyi: Is that it?]] I thank, of course, all those who have given their support to this proposal, because this proposal, as I have said, contains the comments of the legislators on a number of points. The legislators have asked to improve these laws. With regard to the execution of sentences, I have to say that a number of half-information has been given. Among other things, there was talk of how religious departments would function. Well, of course, any religious community can initiate the establishment of such a religious department and operate such a religious department by agreement with the National Command of Penalty Enforcement. There has already been such an agreement, but there is no legal basis for this, no legal regulation, and it is currently being placed independently in the drug prevention, curative therapy and psychosocial department. So all the government is asking in this bill is for similar therapeutic departments to be included in the law now. As regards the issue of conciliation, the discussions took place with the Chief Prosecutor, the High Prosecutor, the National Court of Justice. Indeed, there has been no consultation with the Law Orders Faculty, at least we have not received such information from the Ministry of the Interior, but we find that this is not a law of status, but that criminal law is being amended at points which the Law Orders Faculty must implement, as we say, by citizens. So, let's say, the amendment of the criminal code or the amendment of the prison law must also be discussed primarily with the execution of the sentence. In this case, too, it would be odd because the National Command of Correctional Enforcement itself has proposed most of the amendments, so in fact, the law enforcement staff's prison opinion has arrived from the National Criminal Enforcement Command. So I have to say that, in the view of the Ministry of Justice, the status of law enforcement officers is not affected by this bill, so there was no need to consult the Law Order. That's our position. This can, of course, be debated, but there has, of course, been continuous consultation with the stakeholders themselves, the enforcement of the law enforcement agencies or the Ministry of the Interior during the proposal. I do not want to mention the problems associated with the setatian punishment for a long time here. There was also a decision by the Constitutional Court in the regulation of the setatian punishment in the context of the so-called three strikes, and it is therefore necessary that we now establish consistency with all the settling rules. There was a suggestion concerning work in prison and paid leave in connection with it. This is, on the one hand, an international requirement that, of course, labour law and basic rules of work apply within the framework of prison execution, and, on the other hand, that a person takes leave of work, does not mean that he leaves the penitentiary for leave, but that he does not work. So that's how it's meant to be. It was a bit misleading to claim that he was leaving the penitentiary for vacation. Of course, there are opportunities that provide for the possibility of exclusion or a short-term departure for the inmates, either as a reward or for resocialisation purposes. This is indeed part of the reintegration programme that is being carried out in the event of an inmate. What I do not understand is that if Jobbik's speaker said that they would otherwise agree with reintegration detention, which takes place for six months instead of imprisonment under similar conditions to house arrest, then what is their problem with short-term departure? [[14.30]] If you agree that there are aspects that allow a person to go to house arrest for up to six months, then, of course, a weekend or short-term leave should also be provided. With these tools, educators can discipline and motivate prisoners in prison. These are very important tools. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for speaking to all the speakers who were in favour of the proposal. Thank you for the other comments, and I am pleased that we could talk about corruption. Although this was not the subject of the bill, thank you very much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-74	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the International Telecommunications Association on the publication of the ITU Telecom World 2015 Agreement on the organisation, organisation and financing of the ITU Telecom World 2015 conference will follow. The submission is T/4645. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Mikola István, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2015-05-12-75	Dear Parliament, Mr President, In addition to the political, economic and security changes in the world, rapid technological changes have an important role to play. This is particularly true in the field of information communication. By adapting to the changes, each country must develop its own strategy so that it is the winner and not the loser of these changes. Hungary's aim is to be not only a follower of technological changes, but also a shaper. The work of Tivadar Puskás and János Neumann makes it right to expect Hungarian professionals to be active players in the process of technological change in the world, especially in the field of infocommunication and digital technology. Information and telecommunications are an important area of development of the country, whose development directions are set out in the national infocommunication strategy. The main objective of this is to create a digital Hungary, so that our country can be at the forefront in the EU in the field of infocommunications telecommunications. International Telecommunications Union is the most important global institution of the United Nations in the field of infocommunications and is responsible for assisting international telecommunications cooperation. In 193 Member States of the Geneva-based organisation, there are currently nearly 700 sectoral and associated members. On 1 January 1866, Hungary joined the organization originally founded in Paris under the name International Telegraph Union as one of the first twenty Member States. This year's 150-year-old organization, therefore, is particularly honored to hold its world conference on telecommunications in the Hungarian capital in the autumn of the year, the 150th World Conference on Jubilee. The International Telecommunications Association is a global event where developers of information and communication technologies, government actors, regulatory authorities, leading industry actors meet in a multi-day conference to present the latest trends, develop and deepen industrial and governmental relations. Last year Doha, before that, Bangkok made room for the world conference. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced in the notary seat by Adam Mirkóczki.]] Hungary submitted a tender for the settlement right of the International Telecommunications Association Telecom World 2015, which it won in autumn 2014. The ITU Telecom World 2015 conference will take place in Budapest from 12 to 15 October 2015. Since the beginning of telecommunications and IT, Hungarian experts have contributed to the development of the sector with a number of outstanding scientific achievements and innovations. The organisation of the conference is particularly valuable for Hungary, as Hungarian infocommunication companies also have the opportunity to introduce themselves, establish professional relationships and share knowledge with international experts. Budapest is particularly attractive as a European venue and is easily accessible to European countries, and offers advanced infrastructure and world-class services to conference participants. The event and its related events also highlight Hungary's role as a global liaison, and generate significant tourist revenue for our country. The Government of Hungary regards the infocommunication technology industry as one of the outbursts of the national economy. The recently adopted National infocommunications Strategy 2014-2020 opens a new chapter in Hungarian telecommunications and information technology and fits well with the objectives of ITU Telecom World 2015. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The topics of the telecommunications conference are mainly organised around the digital city and the digital home, but there will also be 5 G solutions and the exploitation of the opportunities offered by Big data. The International Telecommunications Association intends to involve small and medium-sized enterprises in its work with greater intensity than before and to pay more attention to innovation and support for development in various infocommunication areas. The forum is a major opportunity for Hungarian professionals and businesses to show the world their achievements in this area, their expertise and to involve new resources in development. The event serves the fundamental foreign policy goal of promoting the country's international weight by consistently representing Hungarian interests in international forums and bilateral relations. Dear House, I request your support for the adoption of the bill. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-12-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-05-12-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a proposal to announce an agreement before my fellow Members, which is between the Government of Hungary and the International Telecommunications Association. Its content is that the ITU Telecom World 2015 conference will be held in Hungary in October this year in Hungexpo. What is the International Telecommunications Association, and why is this conference significant? As the Secretary of State has said, the International Telecommunications Association is a global institution of the United Nations in the field of infocommunications, whose task is to assist international telecommunications cooperation. The various committees of ITU issue recommendations, which take into account the legislation on telecommunications for the governments of each country, and we are very proud that our country joined the organisation in 1866. Since 1971, ITU has organised a global conference called Telecom World every year. The event is rightly the most important international event of the infocommunication profession, since 4-5 thousand guests visit it every year, representing at a high level the 193 countries and 700 businesses that are members of ITU. In the days of the conference, the country will be the focus of the international press. ITU defines the Telecom World conference as a global platform that provides an opportunity to explore the opportunities for economic and social exploitation of ICT innovations, to share related knowledge and to establish the necessary links for implementation. Hungary won the right to hold the conference in December 2014, which will take place in Budapest from 12 to 15 October 2015. [[14.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, We can ask why it is good and beneficial for Hungary to organise this conference. Telecom World 2015 gives Hungary an opportunity to present the results of the digital state - the Hungarian infocommunications sector, market players, SMEs, the civil and academic sector. Within the framework of the conference, the Hungarian pavilion will be set up with the aim of presenting to participants: Hungary is strong in innovation and higher education, an excellent investment fund, strong expertise is available, and Budapest is a lively, liveable and vibrant start-up and creative industrial centre. In the framework of the conference, it will also be possible to organise a professional block in Hungary. This will discuss digital single market and digital nation topics at the heart of the EU Member States' interest. This will also provide an opportunity to present the development plan of the Hungarian government, the digital nation, which will enable our country to become a determinant of the European Union's digital development directions, helping not only to improve the country's competitiveness, but also the Union's competitiveness. This is based on the survey that the creation of a digital single market could lead to an increase in GDP of around €340 billion and hundreds of thousands of new jobs in the coming years. In addition, Budapest is a unique location with world-class services and infrastructure connecting East and West, which will be experienced by those arriving at the conference in person. Ladies and gentlemen, The opportunity to organise the conference is particularly valuable for Hungary, because Hungarian infocommunication companies also have the opportunity to introduce themselves, establish professional relationships and share knowledge with international experts. The holding of the conference must be seen as an investment, from which we can profit only, so I ask my fellow Members to support the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here.
u2015-05-12-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The International Telecommunications Association is a specialised UN telecommunications body that ensures coordination of the telecommunications sector worldwide. Its aim, as set out in its Statute, is, inter alia, to extend the usefulness of telecommunications technologies to all residents of the world, to facilitate the use of telecommunications services in order to facilitate peaceful relations. The organisation is currently 150 years old, since the foundations of ITU were laid by 20 European states in 1865, which currently has more than 190 Member States. Hungary joined ITU in 1866. ITU Telecom World is a global event where developers of information and communication technologies, government actors, regulators, leading industry actors meet in a multi-day conference to present and deepen the latest trends, develop industry and government relations. In order to select the host of the Telecom World 2015 event, ITU issued a call for proposals. As a result, Hungary will be the host country of the event which will take place between 12 and 15 October 2015, as my fellow Members have said. The bill would give a parliamentary mandate to recognise the mandatory scope of the agreement on the conduct, organisation and financing of the ITU Telecom World in 2015. Although the organisation of the international conference offers the opportunity to introduce the actors of the Hungarian information and communication sector, to establish professional contacts and to share knowledge, the terms of the agreement on the management, organisation and financing of the event prove to be very unfavorable for Hungary: in addition to the fact that the government makes available the venue of the event, Hungexpo, to ITU, free of charge, almost exclusively to Hungary. For example, the main expenses related to the preparation, planning and implementation of the event for ITU are approximately HUF 732.5 million: special programmes, participation of less developed and low-income countries nearly HUF 60 million; accommodation costs for ITU officials during the preparation and the event are not specified here; 50 per cent of the daily allowance of 80 officials, nearly HUF 50 million; 50 per cent of the daily allowance for pre-event missions, more than HUF 15 million; 50 per cent of the daily subsistence allowance for at least 50 cars for state, heads of government, ministers and ministerial-level guests arriving at the event; reservation of hotel rooms, 1500 per cent for ITU. The promotion of the event is fully funded by the government: the production, distribution of promotional materials, the placement of banners, advertising materials, the rental of advertising places for high traffic places, and the media plan to promote the event worldwide. In addition, it is for the government to organise and conduct the opening ceremony, the opening reception and the closing reception, but the exclusive right of ITU to approve speakers, statements and speeches, and to compile guest lists and distribute invitations. The Government shall bear the costs and expenses of any other reception or event relating to the event and shall grant ITU full exemption from all relevant federal, state or local taxes in accordance with the Convention on the Privileges and immunities of the Specialised Institutions of the United Nations. ITU shall keep the budget of the event fully confidential, i.e. it has no obligation to bring the budget to the attention of the government or any third party. Any additional revenue resulting from the organisation and the organisation of the event shall be entirely borne by ITU. We have a lot of questions, seeing the details of the costs and the items themselves that are named, and in many cases no cost is allocated, at least it is not clear from the proposal. We do not dispute for a moment that the aim of the event is noble, the operation of the Telecommunications Association itself is, of course, extremely useful, and Hungary has been a member of this organization for a long time. However, we do have questions, and we would like answers to these questions, because many items do not include costs, and we would like to know how they turn out. Since we count the costs indicated, we are at nearly one billion forints in the event of a four-day international event. We would like to know where these high costs come from and why Hungary is making such a big commitment. So we would like to see all the details of the budget, and we would also like to know who will be the participants of this event, because there are very broad concepts and positions in the proposal. Due to the policy of the Orbán government, Hungary has been internationally isolated over the past five years - I think my fellow members of the government have already noticed this - and unfortunately our allies and partners are not happy to visit our country anymore. Therefore, the government rarely takes a chance to break out of this isolation, and, as we can see, it organises events with billions of HUF worth of investment, trying to compensate with these events, which, if appropriate, place a greater burden on Hungary than the current situation allows. The cost items mentioned in the bill, as I mentioned, reach almost a billion forints, and there is no way to know what the final cost of the event will be, as it could be a multiple. It is quite clear that we need a predictable foreign policy in Hungary - not the foreign policy that the government is currently pursuing - because such a foreign policy can strengthen our relations as an ally rather than isolate Hungary; I would stress this, as we can see that the government is good at this. So what we need is a predictable policy, and what we need is Hungary's declaration of what community of values it belongs to. [[14.50]] After all, only such a stable and predictable policy can lead to such a stable and predictable policy, which can otherwise have a positive impact on the internal policy, as this is how we can attract more investment to Hungary, so we can make Hungary attractive again, where our allies and partners can visit again. So we can see that, unfortunately, the Hungarian foreign policy, diplomatic relations and all kinds of international organisation are not characterised by predictability and security. In many cases, the government strives for a visual bakery. I would very much like this event not to be the victim of such a case, but to actually benefit Hungary from the knowledge that can be obtained on such a occasion. So, overall, we want the answer to our questions. We'd like to see precise numbers. We'd like to see precise plans. If we receive reassuring answers, the MSZP will only be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-12-80	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Ms Rózsa Hoffmann, lead speaker at KDNP. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-12-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In the introduction of Secretary of State Mikola and in the words of the two key speakers before me, all the facts that are important to know during the negotiation of this draft law, namely what is the past of this International Telecommunications Association, which is its objectives, and what this conference means for Hungary. These are facts that neither party, nor party, is debating, and it is good that we can talk about such a conference. There was also a consensus from the previous speakers on why all countries, including Hungary, need to develop infocommunication technology, that this is the way of the future, that without it, it is now the 21st. It can't be done in the first century. Of course, the Christian Democratic People's Party agrees. But after these important facts have been made, I would not like to repeat in part what has been said in my prepared comment, but, on the one hand, I would like to make it clear to them, and I know that there are many who follow the parliamentary broadcasts through television, to make it clear, that there is nothing here but that an international convention has already been concluded to organise this conference, and that according to our laws international conventions and treaties must be approved by the Parliament, that is why we are discussing it here. The subject of the approval is the conference which will be held in October 2015 by the Hungarian Government and the International Telecommunications Association, which can be called ITU in Hungarian and ITU in English. And the conference is a huge event. The decision of this ITU states that the telecommunications union, in cooperation with its Member States and its sectoral members, should organise telecommunications and infocommunication technical events on a predictable and regular basis, taking into account the financial background of these events. After this conference or similar conference is organised regularly from time to time, and on behalf of the Hungarian Government, the foreign minister and the leaders of ITU have already signed this agreement, the Parliament will now decide whether or not to take note of this. Since no contributor has contested it so far, and I assume that it will not dispute the importance that the subject of the conference is extremely topical, vital for Hungary's development and for its international relations, I do not think it is worth dissecting the substance of this convention at all. Still, I can't help but react in a few words to what the speaker said before me. We have witnessed here that every opportunity for the MSZP to seize is where the government's policy, especially its foreign policy, can be criticized to say a very subtle word. For my part, and for Fidesz-KDNP, I must clearly reject the claim that Hungary would have been internationally isolated. Then I would not have come here recently by leading European politicians who have come here, as well as in international organisations where I and many of myself, along with other fellow Members, regularly turn around, and even turn around, but work and work - here in this Chamber there are some of us travelling with them to Strasbourg, Brussels and other countries - we do not feel any isolation trend, and even the Hungarians are interested in the world, although we are discussing a lot of issues with them. On the other hand, when it comes to the criticism of one of Hungary's laws, I myself find with pain that the politicians of the MSZP take every opportunity to express their untrue criticism of Hungary on an international level, often in support of unrealities. If, therefore, you feel that Hungary is isolated, I must say that there is a lion's share of your party in this, who do not hold back in Brussels, Strasbourg and other places to abuse Hungary and make it appear in a negative light, supported by untruths. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: That is not true!]] As I said, Hungary is, therefore, a debate partner in the world of politics, with whom they are arguing, but it also has authority. If we go beyond the little artificial concrete walls of politics and look at how the world is related to Hungary, then we must see that this statement is as far away from reality as the proverb says, Mako Jerusalem. Every year, the number of foreigners who have visited Hungary is increasing, and they go home with such a positive image that they will carry on their reputation, and tourism and tourism will be Hungary's main source of income. Sometimes, many of the people who spend our everyday lives in Budapest are suffering from the tourism that brings the news of our country to the world, and this is not an incidental or even important aspect, they leave huge amounts of money and forints. Therefore, the items listed here by the congresswoman before me, what one of the costs of the conference means for the Hungarian budget, will be richly recovered from the fact that thousands of professionals from the world, highly qualified scientists, engineers, managers and, not least, politicians come here with their escorts, who obviously spend money here not only for four days but also for a longer period of time, and carry the news of Hungary beyond that. The organisation and organisation of such a conference is indeed moving a huge apparatus, even for a small event, and it cannot be allowed to fail. The convention: I myself have read the costs, of course it is easy to envy the little money, the souls of poor people, when we are talking about millions, but those who have worked on the organisation of an event once know exactly what it costs, and these costs seem realistic. So the fact that we can bring the leading powers, leading experts and politicians of infocommunication technology to Hungary in connection with such a conference is a great opportunity for Hungary; I would say that it is like the Olympics of information technology. [[15.00]] An Olympics also cost a lot of money, as we know, a lot of countries are paying for it, but countries are struggling to organise it. Therefore, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports this convention, and I urge my fellow Members to do so, in accordance with its expected moral and material benefits and its work in the service of science. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-82	The next speaker was Mr Tibor Bana, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-05-12-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In my speech, I try to focus on the bill, but if various foreign policy issues have already been raised, I would also note that Jobbik can welcome the fact that, over the past years, steps have been taken in relation to the policy of opening up to the east, as we have already taken this clearly and firmly in our programme much earlier. We find it problematic, however, that, in the previous period, statements and actions have been made to the contrary from the government side, which makes it sufficiently difficult for the government to move properly in this area and to achieve results in this way. So, if we look at this, we can certainly see that this makes it more difficult and less difficult for the government to move in this regard. In particular, our approach to the bill is fundamentally supportive. Several people have already said, but I would also stress that ITU Telecom World is a global event where developers of information and communication technologies, government actors, regulators and leading industry actors meet in a multi-day conference to present and deepen the latest trends, to develop and deepen industrial and government relations. The event provides an opportunity for Heads of State or Government to meet the leaders of UN professional organisations, regulatory authorities and industrial companies. Hungary joined the organization originally established in Paris in 1865 under the name International Telegraph Union on 1 January 1866 and currently has nearly 700 sectoral and associated members in 193 Member States of the Geneva-based organisation. Last year's Telecom World Conference 2014 was hosted by Doha between 7 and 10 December 2014. For Hungary, the right to organize the conference was handed over on 9 December last year under ceremonial frameworks by the former directorate country, Qatar. The first ITU Telecom World event was held in 1971, and the International Telecommunications Association is celebrating its 150th anniversary this year, just a few days later, on 17 May, as has already been mentioned. The event includes exhibitions where telecommunications companies from different nations can appear and meet investors. There is a strong emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups. Jobbik has always felt that putting these companies in the position is particularly important, and in the previous term we expressed our position on this in both the plenary session and in various professional events and within the framework of the Innovation and Development ad hoc committee, and of course this is also in our electoral programmes. The event also includes various presentations and forums, where representatives of individual countries, key players in industry and other prominent actors share their thoughts on what innovations would be needed and what conditions should be created for them. It is worth knowing, ladies and gentlemen, that information and communication technology accounts for about 12 percent of Hungary's GDP, and we can talk about a very significant growth year by year, this sector is growing by approximately 4 percent, currently one of the most developing industries in Hungary. For these reasons, the organisation of the event in Hungary is therefore welcome and eligible, as it can be another break-out point for Hungarian companies and young entrepreneurs. The telecommunications industry is therefore one of Hungary's most developing industries, and it is welcome that we are not only abounding in foreign investors in this area, but also find a good number of domestic players, businesses and start-ups. Foreign interests are usually present in the form of large companies, and in their case, it is never known how long they will stay in our country, so this should always be kept in mind in relation to the further development of the industry. Of course, I do not mean to say that they would not be very important players in the domestic economy and should not be supported, but we still think that it is the small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary that we should also benefit from in this sector. After all, it is worth remembering that in May 2014 news came that Nokia is making a HUF 3 billion investment in the country, to which the government added HUF 211 million of non-refundable funding, and the company also offered a five-year guarantee for jobs, and then in July the news came that Microsoft, which took over Nokia, was cutting down, which also affected the factory in Komárom. With this, we lost one of our best performing foreign companies in virtually months, and this was also strongly reflected in the performance of the industry. Therefore, it is not possible to rely only on large foreign companies in this area, but, as I pointed out, fortunately, we find a really good number of Hungarian actors in the sector, and the event in the bill can be a break-out point for such and similar companies, as they can meet investors who can be persuaded by their ideas and ideas. Strengthening transparency would indeed be important in this respect in terms of costs. What I would add in a larger perspective is that the most important thing, according to Jobbik Hungary Movement, is to ensure that all conditions in Hungary are met so that Hungarian ideas can be used by entrepreneurs in Hungary and do not have to go abroad to do so, and to do so, they need to be given the predictable economic and entrepreneurial environment, the appropriate support tax system, as well as the incentives for domestic investors to take up Hungarian start-ups - unfortunately, we have seen the opposite processes over the last few years. We believe that this could be the way forward, and with this basic position and our attitude, we can support the bill to announce the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-84	Thank you very much. Here comes Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, lead speaker of the LMP Group, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-05-12-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the opinion of the LMP, the issue of the conference of the International Telecommunications Association in Budapest does not fall before the plenary session of this House. However, if the government was absolutely motivated to burden the legislators with the details of the organisation of the conference, I would like to say here that we believe that the government should not provide the Hungarian support of the event for HUF 800 million, but should find funds for this in the annual budget of the Budapest International Fair, which actually organised the event. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-12-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. An independent congressman is not in the room, so there will be two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-05-12-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond with great respect to my fellow Member, Mr Hoffmann, because, as you said, we have talked about a good goal, and it is a fact and a fact that I have not stopped to say a few words about the foreign policy of the Orbán government. Believe me, I would be the happiest if I couldn't get involved in this policy anyway. It is a fact that Hungary has been isolated, there has been a diplomatic conflict with more than 15 countries in recent years, and the Government is now receiving very serious criticisms - you may be hearing the news - also from the European People's Party, so it is not possible to say that it would be the hands of the socialists. The fact that the Hungarian Socialist Party represents the real interests of Hungary and I believe that it can be painful [[Intercom from the pro-government benches.]] The fact that Hungary's real national interests do not coincide - unfortunately - with the interests of the Orbán government, and we can see many examples of this, as well as double speech. What do the Orbán government and government representatives do? [[15.10]] We remember that the Fundamental Law was accidentally mistranslated, we remember when Péter Szijjártó spoke about the importance of European Union values abroad, while in Hungary László Kövér removed the European Union flag from Parliament. By the way, as a Christian Democratic Member, Mrs Rózsa Hoffmann, whether the death penalty is here, I am sure or at least hope that as a Christian Democrat, you do not agree with the suggestion and position of the Orbán government. So there is no Hungarian foreign policy, there is only a fidesz interest policy, and we can see that the closing hours on Sunday are a very good example of this. As long as this is so in Hungary, ladies and gentlemen, in every speech where possible, we will draw attention to the problems in foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2015-05-12-88	There will be two more minutes of speeches. First, Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-05-12-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to make a well-intentioned addition and comment to the attention of our fellow Member, Mr Rózsa Hoffmann. You said that you would explain to those who are watching the broadcast on TV what this proposal is about. Well, I have to say here that using your information technology skills a little better, you can easily find that, for example, all channels belonging to MTVA, for example, do not broadcast Parliamentary meetings or speeches in live direct broadcasts, in a package available to everyone on the surface of the earth. It is available on P+, which can be accessed by one of the providers in the family package. Let us say that your speech and the development of information technology and the entry into this path are in stark contrast here with the fact that at present in Hungary, the meeting of the legislative process can be achieved through a commercial service provider, on a commercial channel, if anyone wants to see it or otherwise has to go up to Parliament.hu. On the other hand, this was available free of charge in all households before 16 March. This is particularly interesting when we talk about the assembly of an organisation whose task is to encourage the development of information technology and easier access to it. On the other hand, it seems that the sitting of the Parliament's plenum is now exactly in the increasingly unavailable category, or someone is forced to follow it on the Internet. We know that it is not in all households and that they do not have the means to do so. It has been eradicated from virtually free channels, and now only one commercial service provider on its commercial channel can be referred to as the P + channel, the meeting is available live, in all other cases it encounters summaries and cut materials. I'm just trying to remember that with good intentions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In terms of historical loyalty. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-90	Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP!
u2015-05-12-91	I do not fully understand the incomprehensibleness of my better fellow Member. If Jobbik were to govern at this level, he wouldn't want the Hungarian society to see it live. So this is a perfectly logical step for the government. It is surprising that everyone was inspired by the speech of our fellow Member, Rózsa Hoffmann. I didn't intend to comment on this in the first place either, but at the same time I asked myself that when you said that the government's investment would pay off, you should tell me how. So we give 800 million something to pay the service fees - how will that pay off? So how much will visitors spend? So how many of these little Kalocsa-pattern T-shirts have to be brought home as a gift to pay back the Hungarian taxpayers, given that this is not just a tax burden. So have you been able to calculate this, or do you have any specific economic background on what the rate of return is calculated here? Basically, it just seems that there is an important topic, a conference, which is the case itself, to be supported, but there are 30 other cases of the same kind, whether in your field of expertise, health or other fields of expertise, where there is no government support. Obviously, the reason I don't understand is that it's very, very false to reason with this, because there really is this Hungexpo, which is doing an incredibly high conference organisation activity in Hungary. A multitude of exhibitors say in various fields that they collect one of the highest exhibition awards internationally, the same can be said about the entry systems, that there is one of the highest entry systems, so we provide support to an impertinently high-service event organizer to organise a conference to be supported otherwise. I fully agree that this should be done, and I do not agree that with so many budgetary resources, this is how it should be supported. But if you can convince me where this is going to apply, because it means that the hotel, the car and the likes of it will be paid by us, with the taxpayers' money, so I'll be wondering where the benefit will be. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-12-92	Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. Here you go.
u2015-05-12-93	I apologise to this House for asking for a word, but my name was mentioned as many times as it was a long time ago, and I began to feel quite good about it. I do not like such kindergarten arguments very much, but I must ask again, because I would like to reiterate, my dear Congresswoman Demeter, that yes, the fact that Hungary's reputation has deteriorated in the world has a huge role to play in that. I am now ignoring the fact that everyone knows how many times Hungary has been reported, how many false information has been provided. That's one of the things I want to say. But that's not what we're arguing about here. The isolation of a country, please, is quite different from the situation we are in, and what I didn't dispute is that, yes, the world is arguing with us and we are arguing with them. After this great happy socialism, when everyone seemed to agree on everything, it may be a little strange for you, but yes, a brave and strong country is trying to enforce its own interests. We are not in conflict, we are not in battle with any of the countries. I would like to say to my fellow Member, László Lukács, that, as far as I know, Parliament's TV is broadcasting parliamentary broadcasts, and almost 70 percent of Hungarian households, if I am wrong, have access to the Internet. I get a lot of text messages here in Parliament myself, and they respond to that and that, so a lot of people watch. Finally, about the return: if we only count the return in HUF, then it is possible that this is unpredictable. But, you know, it's a materialist position to measure just the forints. The moral benefits of this are also enormous, which we cannot translate into forints, because anyone who was here once at a major conference will send his family here for the next year, or will propose another conference, so in the international circulation countries will also seek to organise conferences that seem to be even loss-making at that time. I repeat. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That a conference has huge costs, and someone has to pay for them. So we will continue to support this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-94	Showing a fine example of tolerance, the president presides and draws attention to the fact that the two-minute circle is complete. So anyone who wants to speak can now ask for a word in a normal round. This is not encouraging, only a description of the house rules, taking into account - this is about international relations - Hungarian-Cathalan and Hungarian-Bajor relations as well. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, a normal word as a suitor.
u2015-05-12-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congresswoman, allow me two more sentences with great respect. One is that, as I said at the beginning of my speech, I said, but I would like to point out once again that we are talking here about the fact that this International Telecommunications Association is treating it as a priority, and its main task is to extend the usefulness of information and communication technologies to all citizens of the world. So I think that this is a very noble goal, and I highlighted it in my speech, but I think it is false, because let us remember the question of Internet tax a few months ago, where the Hungarian government would otherwise have imposed a tax on Internet use in this way, and it would have made access to information even more difficult. With this I would just like to join the elements mentioned here by my fellow Members, the elements of the policy of the Orbán government, as well as parliamentary mediation, but I think that an Internet issue, for example, is very important, and that all other forms of communication, telecommunications and channels work. By the way, I looked at the fact that the conference will probably be held here from Monday to Thursday in the spirit of Sunday's closure. Thank you. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2015-05-12-96	I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Dr. István Mikola's signal:]] You have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2015-05-12-97	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank everyone for their support, which is very important to us. This application was submitted from 23 candidates, twenty-three of them applied for the International Telecommunications Union's 150th World Conference in Jubilee. The many candidates themselves and the great ambition that has been expressed globally have made me feel that everyone who has organised a conference has benefited. I was there in South Korea, Busan, but I was there in Qatar, Barcelona, Vietnam, and many other places; we also proclaimed the importance of this conference in Southeast Asia. That wasn't what the negotiations were about, but by the way, we took advantage of it to make commercials for this. The organization expects that there will be between 9 and 11 thousand registered participants in Hungary. Only Hungexpo is suitable for the location of this conference to manage such a huge number of participants. At the same time, I would like to tell the Member that Hungexpo and I have a very hard bargain to reach market prices. I do not yet know the data of this conference on final financing, the final accounts will follow later. We advertise the tenders individually and, of course, try to achieve the best financial conditions in the negotiations. It's not a cheap conference, a world conference with about 10,000 registered participants is expensive. I would like to stress that everyone who has organised a conference has been in line again and would like to regroup, since the impact can be measured not only in tourism. I'll give you an example. Here came the secretary-general, Mr Zhao - now he has a Chinese secretary-general at the International Telecommunications Union - we took him to young clubs where they deal with the Internet, we took him to a conference in the newly built Castle District, where about 100 or 200 young people attended, dealt with information technology, and he was very surprised at the high level of this technique in Hungary, and how many young people are interested in asking questions about the conference itself. So we're optimistic now. I say to Mrs Márta Demeter, of course, that her request, her demand, is absolutely justified, that we account for every penny. We will do this if we have to, we will keep you informed, as we are continuing the tenders now. The final amount of this conference is likely to be around HUF 2.5 billion, and of course all expenses are included in this, so this is an expensive conference, I acknowledge that, but it will certainly have its benefits. I used to attend at least two of these world conferences, and in this connection, on the side of the so-called side event, I marveled at side meetings and scientific meetings - although I am really only a user in this technique - the world of drones, robots, the 5 G. There's something amazing going on in this area. Our conference is also very important because we have won the conference among the 23 candidates by undertaking to connect European countries to the techniques that exist in the developing Eastern countries with incredible speed, so we are particularly active in Europe, including in Central and Eastern Europe. We went to Kiev, but we even went to Moscow, because we need to bring these countries back to the emerging giant economies, the announcing engagement with peak achievements. We are trying to meet this requirement, we are talking to ambassadors one by one, we are trying to win everyone to the importance of this conference. I'm asking you to support this event. I am convinced that we can account for all the forints, I am convinced that we can answer all the questions, and if we can even achieve a little rise in our political debates in mid-October and enjoy this amazing world - there is a little virtual world - and we feel good about this, and we can actually collect the benefits of this conference in Hungary, because it will benefit us, then I think that we are in favour of a good cause. And I will close by thanking everyone once again for their support, for their awareness-raising comments, and we will pay particular attention to them. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-98	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit the amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will follow on 8 December 2012 in Doha, the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The general debate on the draft law on the publication of an amendment to Dövösség, which was adopted at its Conference, pending its conclusion. The submission was made by T/4636. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, Minister of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here.
u2015-05-12-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us contains the publication in the domestic legal system of another annex to the Kyoto Protocol, a convention previously concluded. We are well aware of the harmful effects of greenhouse gases, and our increased responsibility is to protect against this. This legislative and legislative publication is also in line with the procedures proposed by the European Union and is an accession to a convention that can be the only way forward for the vision of the future. This requires the ratification of the Hungarian Parliament. The European Union is working together on a policy on the harmful effects of climate change. Accordingly, in October last year, the EU's Heads of State and Government adopted our 2030 climate policy guidelines, with the aim of doubling the reduction of 20 per cent of emissions by 2020 to around 40 per cent. Climate change and human activity in recent years have increasingly signalled the impact, and if we compare Hungary's economic growth curve with climate and emissions figures, we can conclude that we are one of the EU Member States that are successful in training this indicator and are successful in climate policy. However, climate policy cannot be viewed narrowly and exclusively between economic relations. In addition to economic reasons, other factors, climate and other factors, which do not exist in the economy, need to be taken into account for all aspects of climate policy. Regulation is needed to protect the climate against overheating, and we need to increase and strengthen artificial processes to prevent negative climate processes by reducing emissions, by means of climate policy. As a result of the signing and ratification of the UN Kyoto Protocol itself, it has become necessary to re-examine and, after this review, introduce a new regulation. This also took place at the so-called Doha Conference, which set out a valid climate policy and emissions by 2020. From the beginning of January 2013 until the end of 2020 a new system has been set up and has already foreseen the activities of the conference to be held in Paris this year, with the aim of redefining our emission policy and quota issues, climate policy itself, by 2030. The 20 percent EU target has already been achieved in Hungary in time, as we are currently at 36 percent savings and emissions reductions. This means that the conditions imposed on us to ratify the Doha legislation can be met. In the event that all EU Member States adopt and ratify the Doha Convention in May and June of this year, a long-term emission strategy can be adopted at the Conference of the Parties in Paris for the period up to 2030, with a view to meeting it and reducing its impact on climate. [[15.30]] By adopting the bill, we can strengthen our positions for the development of the economy, strengthen our strong participation in mechanisms in this area of the world. The office set up by the President of the Republic is helping us with this activity within the framework of the UN. I would also like to add that, at the end of this year, we will be able to act with a single European Union policy at the Paris conference by defining the European Union regulations, regulations, laws and directives necessary for the entry into force of the international agreement. In accordance with what has been said, I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/4636. Please support and contribute to the adoption of your proposals amending the bill tabled. With this, Hungary is taking a historic step and, among the first, we are ratifying the Protocol to the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. Thank you for your attention and again for your support. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-12-100	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Mrs Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-12-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us is part of a process, not the first and not the last step, a stage in a long battle designed to protect ourselves from the consequences of man's own harmful effects, the future generations and our planet. We know that the increased emissions of greenhouse gases and their accumulation in the atmosphere are causing global warming and extreme weather conditions in the absence of effective removal, absorption or reduction, which are commonly referred to as climate change today. As I said, the bill strengthens and continues the fight against climate change, so it is important to mention the history of this. The first and most important step to reduce greenhouse gas emissions was to ratify the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in which the participating countries agreed on the general principles and objectives to be achieved. This was followed by the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in which the participating countries agreed to an effective reduction of greenhouse gases. We now have a Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. The key elements of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol are as follows. Developed countries included in Annex 1 to the Kyoto Protocol have undertaken to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions by at least 5.2 percent between 2008 and 2012 compared to the 1990 base year. Hungary has made a 6 percent reduction, which has now been significantly exceeded. In the Doha Amendment, developed countries have undertaken to further reduce global greenhouse gas emissions by at least 18% between 2013 and 2020. Following this amendment, the Kyoto Protocol entered its second commitment period from 1 January 2013. Hungary, as a Member State of the European Union, has undertaken to deliver minus 20%, so-called joint performance. In addition, Parties may increase their emission reduction commitments for the percentage as set out above. The European Union and its Member States would consider increasing their target of 20 per cent by 2020 to 30 per cent only with an appropriate global target, due to its disadvantage for competitiveness and economic growth. Developed countries can also meet their emission reduction targets partly by creating market mechanisms and achieving part of it through private sector emission reduction investments, thereby reducing the burden on their budgets. The scope of greenhouse gases contained in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol has been expanded with the nitrogen trifluoride. This gas is used in the manufacture of semiconductors, displays, solar panels and other electronics, but its use in Hungary is minimal. Ladies and gentlemen, It can be seen that the Doha amendment section of the Kyoto Protocol will be implemented by Hungary with a 2020 climate and energy package with a target of 20 per cent emissions reduction. It should be pointed out that this joint EU target has already been met by Hungary on a pro rata basis, since it reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 36 percent compared to the 1990 base year. Of course, this does not mean that we have nothing further to do. Climate action is a priority not only in international policy but also in EU policy to reduce and partially reverse the harmful effects of climate change. On 23 and 24 October 2014, Heads of State or Government of the EU Member States adopted the 2030 climate and energy framework. This aims to double the 20% reduction target by 2020 to 40%. However, the inclusion of this objective in the international context will no longer be the task of the Doha Amendment, but of the Paris Conference at the end of 2015. With the adoption of the bill, we are ratifying the Doha Amendment, which, however, currently includes general commitments. It is currently not possible to transpose the detailed emission trading details related to the bill into domestic law, as the necessary international and EU legislation and detailed rules as a result of the Doha Amendment have not yet been drawn up in the relevant EU fora. It is expected that agreement on international rules can be reached at international climate negotiations in Bonn in June 2015, following which the UN Member States can take a formal decision on the detailed rules. Ladies and gentlemen, The entry into force of the Doha Amendment requires a sufficient number of three-quarters majority ratifications. The European Commission also supports and requests the Member States to ratify as soon as possible. The joint ratification procedure by the EU is ongoing in cooperation with the Member States. The EU's objective is to ratify by May-June 2015, taking into account the Paris Conference at the end of 2015. At the conference to be held in Paris at the end of 2015, a completely new international convention would be adopted under the timetable agreed at the Warsaw Conference in 2013, which would enter into force from 2020 and replace the previous ones. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that the Paris climate summit is of great importance, which is no more proof than the fact that former Vice-President Al Gore launched a global campaign a few weeks ago. The aim of the campaign is to give state political leaders at the Paris Climate Summit a more ambitious, more committed and more responsible agreement than the current draft. President János Áder immediately joined the campaign and gained the approval of UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Mun. Al Gore also expressed his thanks and said that Hungary is the first country to join the global cooperation. However, it is now necessary to ratify the Doha Amendment because commitment periods and targets need to be maintained in the interim period. The appropriate number of ratifications and entry into force is also a political guarantee for developing countries. The bill is necessary to meet the international and EU requirements already mentioned. The proposal recognises the mandatory scope of the international convention for Hungary and also proclaims that it can be understood by everyone in English and Hungarian. [[15.40]] The adoption of the bill is historic, as the first step is to ratify the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol within the EU, thus showing our commitment to sustainable economic, social and environmental development. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-12-102	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2015-05-12-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Doha Amendment needs to be ratified by the Parliament this year, but the EU's aim is to ratify it by May to June 2015, given the need to decide on a new global convention from 2020 to replace the revised Protocol, as agreed at the Warsaw Conference, at the Conference of the Parties to be held in Paris at the end of 2015. In the light of the above, the Doha Amendment to the Protocol should therefore be published in law. The Kyoto Protocol, adopted at the 1997 Conference of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, was amended at the 18th Conference of the Parties. This Doha Amendment, which extended the validity of the Kyoto Protocol until 31 December 2012, until 2020. Following this amendment, the Kyoto Protocol entered into its second commitment period from 1 January 2013, together with the requirements for reducing emissions. Given that the MSZP agrees with the climate protection measures set out in the Kyoto Protocol, the proposal is supported by the MSZP parliamentary group, in line with its position so far. At the same time, in the debate on the proposal, we point out that the Orbán government should be on a much larger scale in order to achieve the objectives, such as increasing the share of renewable green energy. And it would be very good if there were progress, not steps back, as we have seen at the launch of the product fee and the introduction of the solar analytics tax. We therefore certainly expect progress from the government and support the proposal.
u2015-05-12-104	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, lead speaker for the LMP.
u2015-05-12-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I listened to the position of the national group and the pro-government group, and I totally liked what they said, and I feel absolutely supportive. This is all very nice and all very good, the problem is what will happen to the implementation of this. So it is a terrible result that, not as in the case of the Energy Efficiency Act, we are not starting with a default infringement or infringement procedure, but we are doing it on time for once, so we definitely appreciate this, and there is nothing in the legislation itself that is not eligible. So what I'm saying is I'm asking the pro-government side again to share this support. We will support the proposal, we will vote for it, but I must say that this is very little. So the fact that we're making papers... as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Secretary of State was a successful mayor. You should know that the practical implementation, the creation of papers, doesn't mean anything. The fact that we're bringing in another piece of legislation... we can put it in the constitution that we're doing climate protection if we don't do anything. So, once again, I can say what we have done in previous negotiations, let us put forward the national adaptation strategy produced by Fidesz, let us look at the tasks that we have, and we would like to see commitments to implement it. Let's see what irrigation systems were promised to Hungarian agriculture by the leaders of the FM or the then VM in 2014 so that drought can be managed. Let us look at the solutions to climate change in the more climate-friendly solutions of public transport in Budapest. These steps don't happen. On the other hand, both the lead speaker of Fidesz and you tell us, as a result, that we have fulfilled the commitments in climate policy, in relation to the conditions of 90. Of course we've done it, we've done it with a million and a half jobs that we haven't fixed since, and I've missed it ever since. So we did it by crashing our industry. So we can't rest completely calmly now that we have results compared to a state of '90, because the Hungarian society has made this result at a very high cost, and if it weren't for this sacrifice, then the economy would certainly have to take a different path. This success, which you consider to be successful in climate policy, cannot be manifested because obviously there is no condition to say that this is positive, that is good, that is forward-looking. We can't do this because we're getting dangerously close to the fact that if this 2 degree very critical average temperature increase occurs worldwide, then the Earth's ecosystem will collapse very irreparably. Everyone has much more to do with this. If Mr Secretary of State says that we are small points in this, and the Hungarian economy plays a very small role compared to the rest of the world, I admit that this is true, but this does not mean that we do not have the task of adapting to climate policy or to changing circumstances, and we would not have the obligation to do so with much more effective solutions. Obviously, you are also aware of the scientific facts that Hungary belongs to a group where weather change, floods, droughts, heat waves cause many economic problems and we expect the emergence of new diseases in the coming decades. There is no evidence of preparation for all of this. This is sad because virtually world leaders, or at least those with responsibility in global terms, already acknowledge that this is what needs to be dealt with in the first place. We are now in a relatively narrow circle in Parliament, and we are talking about the future of the world, not just the country. I wanted to quote this because you promised Hungarian society a democracy on a Christian basis, and in case it matters how Pope Francis takes the lead in this. From his recent speech, let me quote: The world is dominated by economic and financial dynamics that lack ethical considerations. It's not the people who control me anymore, it's the money. The expropriation of land and water, the cutting down of forests, the use of agricultural chemicals are evil things that rip people away from their homelands. Climate change, loss of biodiversity, destruction of forests clearly show the devastating consequences of today's cataclysms. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Overall, if we look at the legislation, I can assure Mr Secretary of State that the Group of the May Other Political Group will support and vote for it. However, we are asking the Secretary of State to represent within the government the position that the greatest possible government intention is to implement these obligations and that the largest budgetary resource for the 2016 budget is available, because without this, this will be an empty paper with which the Hungarian Gazette is burdened, but it has no meaningful impact on climate policy. I ask the Secretary of State to consider this, and otherwise we will ensure support and acceptance. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-05-12-106	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the announced speeches by the lead speaker. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one asked for a two-minute speech, so we will continue with a normal speech. Mr Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, asked for this opportunity. Here you go.
u2015-05-12-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The Group of the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will also be able to support the proposal before us. I do not think that I have been a big surprise, as Jobbik has supported and will continue to support all forward-looking proposals, all the proposals outlined in the climate policy. Perhaps I would focus only on what I can set as an example of my own territory. For example, in agriculture and domestic agriculture, we do not place enough emphasis on these problems. Although there are breedings in both seed and animal species, their state support and assistance will far from reach the level that, I believe, would be adequate and beneficial in a country so central to agriculture, because when we feel the effects of climate change on our skin at even more daily level, it will be very late to start these breedings; especially if we stick to our principle that we try to keep GMOs away from our country and try to solve domestic food without GMOs as much as possible. I also regret that there is little mention among the walls of this House, for example, of how our forests will react to this climate change, because there is a serious concern for the species of wood that this climate change is taking place at such a pace - and I am talking about not only the processes that are taking place in the world, but also those that are taking place in our small country - which, for example, may result in some species of wood not being able to adapt in time to this change. [[15.50]] It would also be good to help such research through a state-built system to find types within a species that are more viable under changed circumstances and can replace the natural replacement of the forest. I am thinking, for example, that it would be worth looking into in the Balkan population, because there are studies that point to this, but the state should be more seriously behind it. I'd like to highlight the status of irrigation. It is an absurd thing, however, that after the flood of the century - which has recently passed through our country - we had to talk about a few months later in the House's walls about the historical drought that is affecting our country and its serious consequences for agricultural production. This is certainly a process to be answered, not in the future, but in a very short time, because we are doing a waste of our country's rivers, which I believe is unprecedented, and future generations will not know or forgive if we do not take action right now. I know that I have deviated a bit from the proposal we are discussing here, and I only wanted to flash them so that, of course, as I begin, Jobbik supports this proposal, but we would like to make a firm demand that we put more emphasis on the cases I have outlined, and that we talk more here within the walls of the House, that we listen to experts who have been ringing emergency bells for many years now, and that we can read their studies as a constantly exclamation mark. I hope that these materials will also be brought before the committees more often and that we can debate them here in this House on a substantive basis and make decisions that will then have the result in practice. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-108	Thank you very much. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is hereby closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary, here you go.
u2015-05-12-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Just a few thoughts, if I may. On the one hand, we are talking about a framework agreement, a Doha amendment with a fixed content, fixed conditions, in a predefined manner. Accordingly, we can add and propose, and then we can draw up an opinion on this at the Paris conference. However, there are some thoughts about this. On the one hand, I would say to Mr Sallai R. Benedict: my faith is what the President of the Republic is doing. We're not little, let's just do it. He expressed his opinion, made a recommendation, made a quota offer, and in the way that he deals with - irrigation, for example, and I will return to that in other areas - I believe in that. But I don't believe in atavism. I don't believe in going back to the ancestors. I don't believe in introducing an established habit 30 years ago, and we're gonna have to control to the last millimeter what to do in the economy. That's failed. He had a name, I don't want to say it out loud, it doesn't suit the National Assembly, but it failed. I believe that with framework opportunities and either European or domestic funding - and I will talk about this - we should help this to happen. However, it is like marching to the mountain, not one step, but many, many, many, and we may never reach it, but we are doing everything we can to make progress in climate policy. Believe me, Congressman, that's what we're doing. Here's an interesting number. Many people in the world think about misunderstandings. Everyone says, for example, that in China, which has not joined the Kyoto Convention and does not make any commitment, what is the problem and problem. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that in greenhouse gas emissions per capita, the US is, say, 20 tonnes, India, say, 3 tonnes, China, say, 1 tonne. It would be good for all economic leaders, whether the United States of America, Canada or, say, China, India, to join climate policy. But let us not forget one thing. If we only deal with two factors: shale gas extraction and the so-called cable loss of European electrical systems, if we could catch this, then there would be no more 2 degrees Celsius in climate policy. We have a lot to do, but it's not up to us. What we can do is join in all positive thoughts and help this process on all subjects. Another interesting thing is that you see his mindset for the government. The next thing we know, we're thinking. Composting. The soil is constantly drying out, and the climate effect is increasing, if you like, by deteriorating its water retention capacity. Well, we're trying to think about how we can help to improve the soil by compost, by producing compost from waste, from green waste - an EU obligation -. So we don't stand and we don't sit, we think. I would ask my fellow Members to support this important law, the ratification of this important law, as they have indicated, and to adopt it together so that we can take another step forward. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a decision on the National Environment Programme 2015-2020 will follow until closure. The submission was made in H/4582. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, please.
u2015-05-12-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today, environmental policy continues to face a number of persistent and worsening environmental challenges, such as an increase in the risk of climate change, loss of biodiversity, scarcity and contamination of drinking water resources, excessive use of resources, the economic strengthening of genetic interests, the spread of consumption-oriented approaches. Different environmental problems in human activity not only affect themselves, but their harmful effects can mutually strengthen each other, destroying the environment and endangering human health. The combination of society, the economy and the environment form a complex system through their interaction. Recognizing the socio-economic context of adverse environmental processes, it is the overall responsibility of the environment to promote the socio-economic development of the country by performing its tasks in a high quality manner, while consciously acting to maintain social and environmental values, and to contribute effectively to environmental thinking. A healthy environment not only determines our quality of life but also benefits from competitiveness. The improvement in environmental status, the wise use of natural resources and the modernisation of environmental legislation are conducive to the emergence of an eco-efficient, advanced economic structure. The priority objective of environmental policy is to promote the economic development of the country, the conservation and sustainable exploitation of natural resources and values and to enforce the right to a healthy environment set out in the Fundamental Law. Since 1997, the overall framework for our country's environmental policy objectives and measures has been the national environmental programmes to be renewed every six years, which have been developed by the 1995 LIII on general rules for the protection of the environment. It's required by law. Given that the third national environmental programme for 2009-2014 has been completed, it has become necessary to develop the fourth national environmental programme for the period 2015-2020. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The programme is consistent with the country's environmental policy objectives, the tasks and instruments needed to achieve them, and the European Union's current 7th Environment Action Programme and our country's national Sustainable Development Framework Strategy. [[16.00]] The programme also serves as a professional basis for the use of EU environmental development resources available for the period 2014-2020. Annex IV is amended as follows: The national environmental programme and the national nature conservation basic plan as part of it will be an integral continuation of the previous six-year programmes, while addressing the challenges of the future in terms of their content and objectives. The overall objectives of the programme are as follows. We want to achieve better quality of life by improving the environmental conditions for human health. We also want to achieve a sustainable use of our natural resources in terms of production and consumption. Finally, we want to achieve a resource-efficient, resource-efficient green economy. All three objectives are linked to improving the capacity to adapt to climate change and environmental safety, and the horizontal aim is to strengthen the environmental awareness of society. The objectives and measures set out in each strategic area shall ensure the achievement of the strategic objectives of the Programme. Strategic areas focus on environmental elements, environmental systems and sectors. Some strategic areas contribute to a number of strategic objectives without overlap. The introduction of each strategic area outlines the main issues, values and challenges related to the issue, refers to the domestic, EU and international frameworks and includes the objectives to be achieved in the strategic area. In the spirit of cooperation, in addition to the measures covered by the government's responsibilities, it also displays tasks concerning municipalities, the economic sphere and the population. We have carefully chosen the instruments that effectively serve the objectives of the programme, such as strategic planning, international cooperation, research and development, education and training, development policy. The programme is a framework strategy, the implementation of which depends on the European Union, international assistance, the annual budget and the country's capacity to deliver. The implementation of the programme is not primarily an extra cost need, but rather a coordinated, efficient use of the resources that can be planned, adapted to the priorities. In addition, in many cases, the measures generate additional resources and contribute to increasing employment. The financial perspective of the programme was drawn up taking into account EU funds and domestic co-financing, as well as domestic budget support for 2014. The planning and use of sources of measures proposed for non-governmental actors should take into account the financial opportunities and burden-bearing capacity of each sector. Indicators are used to monitor the progress made in implementing the programme and the change in environmental status, which are linked to the strategic objectives. It follows from the complexity of environmental problems that the programme does not have sectoral competence, but is horizontal, affecting society and the economy as a whole. Proper implementation requires the participation of the whole society, in which the widest possible partnership is needed. In this, the government's active partners are local governments, businesses, farmers, scientific, educational, educational, professional institutions and civil society organisations, as well as the population. An important element of cooperation is the coordination of tasks at national, county and municipal level, so that the tasks are solved at the level where the most effective can be ensured and adequate knowledge and local knowledge is available. The objectives of the programme cannot be achieved without broad social support, and its implementation requires cooperation and coordinated action by the government as a whole. I call on the House to present the opinion of Mr IV. H/4582 on a national environmental programme The Commission shall adopt a proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-112	Welcome, fellow Members. The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I therefore give the floor to Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-113	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the vision of the framework strategy for national sustainable development closely linked to this programme, we can find the following ideas: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Humans respect nature, our natural values, local communities recognize their potential, production, energy consumption and consumption from the natural resources at their disposal. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In 2050, we live in prosperity, respecting the ecological limitations of our planet. Our well-being and healthy environment comes from an innovative and circular economy in which nothing is lost and where natural resources are managed in a sustainable way, and biodiversity is protected, evaluated and restored by increasing the resilience of our society. Our low-carbon growth has long been independent of our use of resources. The adoption of the national environmental programme and its compliance with it over the next five years can help us to successfully face the environmental challenges of our country and to look with greater respect and care at the natural values of our country and benefit from the services of nature. The previous ones also show that we need to move towards a society where environmentally conscious thinking and action becomes a force and an advantage. The programme is designed to define the country's environmental objectives, the tasks and the means to achieve them, taking into account the country's capabilities, the long-term interests and future goals of society, as well as our obligations arising from global responsibility and international cooperation and membership of the EU. It sets out three basic strategic objectives: improving the environment conditions for quality of life and human health, protecting natural values and resources, using them in a sustainable way, improving resource saving and efficiency, and greening the economy. The strategic objectives of the Programme shall be met by the objectives and measures set out in each strategic area and by the lines of action set out in the overall areas of action. The programme is a framework strategy, the implementation of which depends on EU, international assistance, the annual budget and the country's capacity to deliver. Its implementation does not constitute a need for additional expenditure, but aims at a coordinated, efficient use of the resources that can be planned, tailored to the priorities. In addition, the measures generate additional resources in many cases, such as energy saving and efficiency, reducing resource use and emissions, which can, of course, be used for other purposes and contribute to increasing employment. Environmental improvements are essentially reflected in the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency in the period 2014-20. The proper implementation of the programme requires the participation of society as a whole, in which the widest possible social partnership is needed. It is very important that the solutions to the specific tasks are carried out at the level where the best available knowledge and knowledge of the place is available. National environmental programmes have been the overall framework for Hungary's environmental policy objectives and actions since 1997. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. a national environmental programme expired in 2014, which is why the fourth development was necessary. Several factors justify the preparation of the programme. The European Council and the European Parliament have adopted the European Union's 7th Environment Action Programme for the period up to 2020 entitled "The European Union's new Environment Action Programme - "The Prosperity of Our Planet', and national environmental programmes also serve as a professional basis for EU development resources. Ladies and gentlemen, In the following, I would like to briefly describe the main links, location and role of the programme in the governance strategic governance system. [[16.10]] The programme is a comprehensive national strategy plan for environmental policy, which provides a framework for all environmental strategies, programmes, plans, such as the national strategy for biodiversity conservation, national water strategy, national waste management plan, national environmental technology innovation strategy, Hungary's river basin management plan, the development of the Vásárhelyi plan, national drinking water quality improvement programme, national municipal waste water drainage and cleaning implementation programme, national implementation programme for specific waste water treatment, drinking water base protection programme, national environmental remediation programme and national nature conservation plan as part of the programme, and integrates our main objectives and guidelines for their development. The programme is closely linked to the national framework strategy for sustainable development as a long-term concept; of the four basic resources discussed in it, it mainly details the objectives and measures related to natural resources. Hungary's environmental policy is integral to the relevant policies of the Union, both in its design and in its implementation. Includes specific environmental objectives and tasks for all relevant socio-economic sectors. The overall objective of the programme is to contribute to ensuring environmental conditions for sustainable development. Each of the three strategic objectives mentioned above is linked to the capacity to adapt to climate change and to improving environmental safety. The horizontal objective is to strengthen the environmental awareness of society. Ladies and gentlemen, For each strategic objective, the programme sets specific objectives to be achieved. The above mentioned strategic target area, which includes improving the environmental conditions for quality of life and human health, is covered by the following objectives. Improving air quality: particulates, called PM2.5, i.e. a 20% reduction in the atmospheric concentration of fine particles between 2010 and 2020; meeting the 2020 overall emission reduction targets in line with the Geneva Convention compared to 2005 emissions: 46 per cent of sulphur dioxide, 34 per cent of nitrogen oxide, 30 per cent of volatile organic compounds, 10 per cent ammonia and 13 per cent reduction in fine particles, so-called PM2.5, which is a serious problem because not only transport causes this pollution, but also residential solid fuel in several places. Total reduction in the use of ozone-depleting substances; reduction of hydrofluorocarbons by 79 per cent between 2015 and 2030. Reducing noise load: reducing the number of people affected by noise pressure above strategic thresholds along transport facilities and removing noise pressure above limit values in the environment of industrial and service facilities. On another subject, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, according to KSH 2012 data, all settlements in the country already have public water supply and the proportion of housing with drinking water connection is 94.2 per cent nationwide. It's a high number, of course, any percentage or any apartment that isn't tied up deserves attention. However, it does not comply with EU and domestic standards for some parameters covering 30% of the country's population with drinking water. The main problem is the concentration of arsenic above the limit. A key objective could therefore be to significantly reduce existing health risks, to improve the quality of drinking water in the areas concerned, to ensure access to healthy drinking water for all residents and to address remaining supply shortages. Specific objectives are also linked to the area of sewage drainage and purification, sewage sludge treatment and recovery: ensuring sewerage for the population living in agglomerations over 2000 inhabitants by the end of this year, i.e. by 31 December 2015; cleaning at least one hundred percent of the waste water collected by 31 December 2015; establishing the quality requirements for purified waste water in accordance with the water quality requirements of the framework directive, facilitating the proper management of waste water from areas not covered by the waste water programme; exploiting waste water and sewage sludge by 31 December 2015 and reducing environmental risks. The aim is to increase the safety of natural and pool bathing waters, reduce indoor air load levels, reduce the health risk of biological allergens, take stock of all human diseases caused by climate change in Hungary, identify their characteristics and reach the full range of stakeholders through preventive measures; continue operation and expansion of the environmental health information system; improve the quality and quantity of green surface elements. In the area of chemical safety, I would like to stress that the chemical industry is one of the biggest potential environmental safety risks in Hungary. At the same time, this industry is among the most prepared sectors for prevention, preparation and response. The aim is therefore to reduce the harmful effects of chemicals throughout their lifecycle, i.e. from manufacturing to waste management; appropriate impact assessments, reduction of public risk, awareness-raising; promotion of sustainable pesticide use. Ladies and gentlemen, The second strategic target area is the protection and sustainable use of natural values and resources; the conservation of biodiversity, nature and landscape protection: the ecological network and the Natura 2000 network, the maintenance and protection of natural areas of international importance; the stopping of the degradation of ex lege, i.e. areas protected by law; the conservation of natural values in earth sciences; the implementation of natural and landscape protection objectives, the enhancement of landscape identity; the improvement of the situation of species in an unfavourable nature conservation situation; the conservation of genetic resources; the increased protection of the quantity and quality of soil resources, the long-term maintenance of their productivity. With regard to the protection and sustainable use of our water: achieving good status and ensuring long-term and sustainable management of surface and groundwater bodies. We can say that Hungary has good traditions and great experience in water management and protection of domestic waters. Allow me not to detail this area in particular right now. I think that's probably what's causing the least debate, and we have the best experience. In the context of environmental damage prevention and damage control, let me say that it is very important to prevent and reduce environmental damage; to continue the national inventory of contaminated areas, to set priorities; to continue the fact-finding of areas covered by public and non-state responsibilities; to define the expected intervention tasks in areas where there is significant risk of unexplored; to reduce, eliminate and monitor the level of contamination. Encouraging further reduction and saving of resources; reducing environmental pressures, increasing reuse and recycling, achieving social cooperation; improving consumer awareness to reduce the environmental impact of consumption. Specific figures should also be given in the area of energy saving and efficiency: by 2020, the share of renewable energy sources will be increased to 14.65 per cent and the total energy savings of 10 per cent will be achieved. I am not going to go into the field of waste management and waste generation right now, but the presentation contains a precise description of the tasks involved. In the absence of time, allow me to overlook that. Of course, this area is as important as the previous ones. Dear House, In order to achieve this and to demonstrate that we have specific tasks, we need to achieve specific objectives, and we can allocate resources to them, as EU and other international grants have a crucial role to play, with domestic budget co-financing. Of course, the most important of all will be the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency, but almost all operational programmes will be found to serve these objectives, environmental objectives. I should also mention that the national nature conservation plan is Hungary's nature conservation strategy plan, a policy strategy that sets out the priority objectives to be pursued in relation to the state's nature conservation tasks as a separate but integral part of the national environmental programme, sets out the lines of action not only for nature management bodies but also for all public bodies. [[16.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to fill in my time, but we've learned a very thorough work in the presentation, so I've presented as much of it as possible within the time frame. Please support our country IV. adoption of its national environmental programme. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-12-114	I now give the floor to Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-05-12-115	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Hungary's environmental policy objectives and measures are a comprehensive framework of national environmental programmes since 1997. In view of the fact that Annex III, adopted by the Parliamentary Decision of 9/2009, was adopted. a national environmental programme expired in 2014, as our fellow Member Manninger mentioned, the need for the IV. development of a national environmental programme. It is a fact that the programme was drawn up in accordance with the national framework strategy for sustainable development adopted by Parliament in spring 2013, and it is also a fact that the national environmental programme is a comprehensive strategy for Hungary's medium-term environmental policy. At the same time, the 205-page 2020 programme, annexed to the proposal for a decision, will be completely discredited by the last five-year activities of the Orbán government. In recent years, the system of Hungarian environmental policy has almost degraded. Green policy policies today belong to four ministries. Environmental and nature conservation issues to the Ministry of Agriculture, water issues to the Ministry of Interior, climate change issues to the Ministry of National Development and renewable energy programmes, and climate quota to the Ministry of National Economy. In addition, the administrative system of the administrative authority is almost completely broken down both organisationally and in funding. Since 1 April, it has been integrated into the Government Office system, but only as a department, for example, so far separate environmental directorates. And at the moment, we are in the process of making the national park boards completely impossible, as a lot of people know. The system of environmental policy institutions has been characterised by huge budgetary constraints in recent years. In the last five years, almost 40 percent of the funds have been taken from national parks alone. However, public funding to support green, nature conservation and environmental civil and professional organisations has almost disappeared. In turn, environmental awareness, the strengthening of thinking and the dissemination of environmental information on social participation have also been put at risk. I understand why Mr Manninger has not mentioned the waste management system, which the Orbán government has managed to completely destroy. It was a well-functioning system. Domestic waste management is characterised by huge problems. Because of the bad legislation of Zoltán Illés, the many new taxes, and the failed reduction of the rent, we are now at the expense of many public service providers. So hundreds of thousands of households don't know who's taking the trash from the next few months. However, we have not been able to meet the EU's requirements for selective waste collection. The transposition of EU directives has also been delayed for nearly two years in domestic legislation. The state of waste management is also characterised by emergency cases that have been heard in recent months and weeks. It's enough to think about the illegals in Balmazújváros or the hazardous waste storage sites on Scented Road, which are in liquidation. Hungary has also withdrawn in the field of renewable green energy in recent years. The domestic quota was almost impossible because of the government's poor sales policy. Thus, the panel programme and the retail development programme to support the use of renewable energies have practically been discontinued. In addition, instead of providing support for the construction of wind and solar systems, the government is charging the sector with extra burdens, solar taxes, i.e. environmental product charges. Meanwhile, not only does the reduction in premiums not meet the conditions of the market economy, but it also violates the polluter-pays principle, which you have said many times and creates counter-interests in reducing consumption. The government, in addition to assisting the Ministry of Agriculture for the Environment, makes it impossible for national park directorates to assign the land in use to the National Land Fund Management Organisation, which controls the farm dog. In addition, it has budgetary constraints on the research and public administration system. Thus, a significant step backwards in the area of air quality improvement and noise reduction is also considered significant. In recent years, water quality improvement and sanitation, sewage sludge treatment and recovery development programmes are not going as they should. As Fidesz said, unfortunately, a household is a lot that is not connected to the drinking water system. To date, nearly 145 thousand households do not have fixed drinking water, the 21st century. In the first century Hungary. In addition, the territorial and organisational distribution of the river basins has ceased. The investments in the Vásárhely plan for flood protection were only partially realised. The size of irrigated areas has decreased to a fraction in recent years. Only 8 percent of our watercourses and 18 percent of our standing water correspond to the good ecological condition under the Water Framework Directive. The quantitative and qualitative protection of water resources, the spread of rational and cost-effective water use, and the reduction of water pollution burden are hampered by the eradication of water associations. Sustainable use of our waters is not possible when, despite promises, the government has not prepared a water management and irrigation strategy. The government's intentions for research and development, eco-innovation and environmental technology cannot be taken seriously when R &amp; D and innovation subsidies have almost completely ceased and the Hungarian environmental research institutes, higher education institutions and training schools have also been severely restricted. It is clear from the environmental policy of the Orbán government that the biggest news in the fight against bioallergenics has been that, in the last five years, it has turned out that the Ministry of Agriculture has managed to use a significant part of the 1 percent offered to defend itself against ragweed for completely different purposes. The Hungarian Socialist Party agrees with the objectives and actions of the national environmental programme by 2020. At the same time, given that the programme's proposals are discredited by the Orbán government's own five-year policy, we will abstain from voting with critical comments. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-12-116	I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-05-12-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, According to the document prepared by the National Sustainable Development Council in 2009, a multitude of domestic households lack environmental awareness and adequate knowledge, the technical background for this lifestyle, and the ability or intention of the necessary investments. The opportunities offered by the market also limit consumer choice. Environmentally better, socially more useful, has little visibility and accessibility, and are usually more expensive. This is found in document 2009. Trends in consumption are closely linked to changes in purchasing habits. The number of shopping malls continued to increase with slowing intensity during the third programme. The consumption of single-use short-lived products and the use of packaging material has continuously increased, while their re-use or use with other functions in our country is not yet solved or rare. Re-use is made more difficult, for example, in the automotive industry, in the electronics industry or in the household appliances, in the case of small appliances, by buying a new approach and, in most cases, by improving these equipments that are not solved or disproportionately expensive. Another problem is the low percentage of bottles and bottles with deposit fees. Today, there is still a weak but growing positive trend among consumers to increase the demand for healthy food and organic farming products. During the third programme, a number of measures were taken to promote healthy lifestyles and environmentally friendly consumption. For example, environmental education, dissemination of information, organic food consumption, promotion of environmentally friendly transport. However, significant efforts are still needed to achieve a consumer culture based on the cost-effective use of resources. The need to change values and lifestyles is also justified by the state of health of the population, which is significantly below the level that our current economic circumstances would already allow. Substantial changes in values are hampered by the background of long-term thinking, the impact of incentives to acquire material values and increase consumption, such as advertising, media-mediated behaviour patterns, and the lack of opportunities and patterns to encourage savings, moderation. [[16.30]] In 2012, the Parliament unanimously accepted the amendment of the Law on Genetic Activity. The new rules aimed at improving environmental and health safety ensure that genetically modified plants and new genetically modified varieties that may be authorised by the European Union in the future cannot be included in public production in Hungary without restrictions. Yesterday, the Minister replied to my question that Hungary does not want to grow GMOs at all. The government has joined the Duna Soya Association to ensure that the animal feed is also GMO free, but they do not stop at its soy, and they would extend it to other feeds. In the Carpathian Basin there are a hundred varieties suitable for feeding. The government also seeks to create GMO-free labelling of meat, fish, eggs and honey. By 2025, the new global challenges will show a wide spectrum, in the opinion of future researchers. A new ecological problem may arise from the consequences of global warming, which may manifest itself in the ever-increasing fight for natural resources, in increasing migration and in strengthening the tendency to violence, if mankind does not take effective action against them in the coming years. Land erosion and depletion can also be a global problem. From an economic policy point of view, the European Union's internal conflicts may be enhanced, and further destabilisation of the world economy, and further growth of the differences between privileged and disadvantaged social groups, may be a challenge. Global trends affect the current state and development of our country. Among the complex domestic problems expected to be present by 2025, we believe that climate change and its consequences; cross-border pollution; lack of power in innovation processes; reduction in household size and increase in environmental burden; excessive incentives for consumption; changes in consumption, nutrition, housing and clothing habits; consumption of food harmful to health; deterioration in general health of the population and increase and polarisation of differences in living standards. We believe that, taking into account the natural features and resources of our country, we are facing the following key strategic challenges: creating an environmentally friendly economy based on the efficient use of resources; ensuring safe and high quality food and water supply, where land and water resources need to be protected, sustainable use and high level of supply; maintaining biodiversity; using land that fits environmental opportunities and constraints. In addition, ensuring the livelihood and residence of the population is an important factor in the vision of the future. Of course, achieving all aspects of this vision requires a longer period of time and consistent steps, broad social support and action, to which the implementation of tasks over the next six years can also actively contribute. Protecting our environment is a fundamental issue, but it doesn't matter how we carry out this mandatory task. We must act in such a way that it will not only bring us short-term results, but that the next generation can also enjoy the positive impact of the current decisions, and the basis for this is that we make a thoughtful, thoughtful decision. We must shape the legal background for environmental protection so that its positive effects can be felt not only now but also in the future. At the same time, the KDNP faction proposes to this House that T/4582 should be used. to support and adopt the proposal for a decision. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-118	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-05-12-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I can say in advance that the Jobbik faction will also be able to support this draft, as it has some forward-looking steps and findings with which Jobbik agrees far-reachingly, but I must point out that, as a opposition party, the statements from the government where it is concerned about environmental protection and the steps it takes to improve environmental protection are really not credible, and it is trying to outline them here, and to develop a strategy for the near future, because in recent years it would have had the opportunity to prove in practice that it is serious. It is enough to think how much worse and worse the situation of environmental directorates today is than even a year ago in our country, or even in the national parks, we have been discussing several times here, within the walls of the House, but we have also affected the decline of renewable energies. And it is not only our duty, as opposition politicians, to draw attention to these issues, but indeed the Ombudsman has now spoken here, and dozens of environmental protection NGOs, your former State Secretary, are also seriously concerned about the government's environmental policy, and, hopefully, the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court will soon take a position on certain issues, which all show that the government's thinking and vision in this direction is not only concerned by the opposition, but all concerned - but these examples, which I have listed, do not belong closely to this legislation. However, there are two points here that I must definitely note in relation to this legislation. The concept of the national environmental programme is designed to achieve sustainable development and environmental protection. Here, I would argue that sustainable development means sustainable, value-saving management of natural resources that allows people to thrive without destroying economic development, destroying diversity, complexity and ecosystem services. You detail this on page 61:. The legislator's vision is that environment can become a catalyst for achieving sustainable development, while consistent implementation of the principles of sustainability in the economy and society can help to change the driving forces that also trigger environmental problems. This requires, first and foremost, a change in the values of society, in which respect for man and nature, the ideal of saving and moderation is placed in its place..The political decision-maker, who has established the public intervention of the national environmental programme, is therefore seeking to remove his own responsibility because of the non-absorption of the natural and environmental destruction dictated by capital power, when the process of unreasonably reviving the resources of the Earth, which threatens the end of civilization, is even called development, and thus seeks to remove the oppositions of the masses against capital rule. This principle, however, cannot actually serve environmental and natural survival in any EU Member State by 2020 or beyond, precisely because of its false content and its capital power measures. Sustainable retirement and sustainable consumption are the real alternatives to survival for mankind instead of sustainable development. The false promise of development, without any material basis, smuggles the absurd demand of capital needs into the formula of sustainability, and of endless economic growth on the finite planet. Instead, our only hope is to produce a better quality product from the same amount of raw material or energy, which can also lead to GDP growth. [[16.40]] In particular, environmental policy does not serve sustainability as a catalyst by contributing to changing the values of society, i.e. developing people's environmentally friendly actions. Environmental and nature use, as well as ecological footprint development, is a consequence and therefore a secondary cause. The decisive, decisive is the consistently curbing the unilateral profit-making activity of capital ownership with policy instruments and economic regulators, the main economic, social players, capital power. Without this, the capital utilisation will put all the consequences of environmental and natural destruction - not only on economic impacts, but also on the disastrous effects of quality of life and destruction that cannot be reversed - to society without punishment. For radical change, today's values of the EU, the mastery of four freedoms, including all other interests and public institutions, must be replaced by the core values of narrower, wider communities. As long as the NKP does not base the action strategy on credible values, the scientific consequence of sustainable consumption and the public interest control based on the state imperative of life-destructive capital movements, its objectives can only come to the fate of false ideologies, i.e. it cannot shape reality for the sake of sustainability. I believe that the present proposal, despite the legislative praise of the Fidesz-KDNP government - we have heard such self-glorifications here - finds, without due basis, that important progress has been made in the constitutional protection of the environment. You claim that the Fundamental Law, which entered into force at the beginning of 2012, introduces a number of guarantee rules for the protection of the environment among its provisions. Here they refer to Article P, but we believe that instead of establishing environmental protection, it is a step backwards in at least two areas compared to the previous legal order. On the one hand, it rejects the quality of agricultural land's national assets, partly because it excludes the State from exercising objective institutional responsibility in the field of environmental protection, and here Article P of the Fundamental Law states that natural resources, in particular land, forests and water resources, biodiversity, indigenous plant and animal species, as well as cultural values, are a common heritage of the nation, whose protection, maintenance and preservation for future generations are the duty of the State and everyone. The law prior to the Fundamental Law used the concept of national property in two legal institutions, on the one hand Article 10 of the Constitution. § 1 was a paragraph and, on the other hand, the Preamble states that natural heritage and environmental values are part of national property, the preservation and protection of which is a prerequisite for improving the quality of life, human health and quality of life. This means that, on the one hand, land as an environmental element, such as the object of environmental protection and nature protection, is a national property regardless of the form of ownership, and, on the other hand, land as a constitutional property is considered to be a national property if owned by the State. By replacing the quality of national assets with the criterion of national heritage, the standards of legal sociology and effectiveness are conceptual inability, because this is not the legal but the broadest ideological category that can't be treated by law. Its application and interpretation immediately raises the fundamental question: who is the legal entity of the national heritage? Everybody or nobody? What is the specific legal object of this? How the right of provision can be exercised over it and how the rest can be forced out. Perhaps the Ministry of National Cultural Heritage can be installed to protect natural resources? On the other hand, national wealth, even though its content needs have been embezzled by the legislation and case law of the last two decades, is a material legal concept, its content can be clearly defined. From its system, the Fundamental Law provides for the creation of a fundamental law, so that, in its operation, the protection of the land as an environmental element could have been incorporated by the legislator in a non-disputable, essential public interest, on the same basis of value and with legal guarantees. In fact, the concept of national heritage, on the other hand, sends a bad message to society in the field of agricultural land, suggesting that the elements listed are not subject to constitutional protection as property, and thus even the environmental protection in force is significantly impaired. These were the two points that I wanted to highlight. We propose, for example, that the national environmental programme be published as a parliamentary decision, that the forthcoming framework law requires that Article P of the Fundamental Law be supplemented with the objective institutional responsibility of the State and that there is much more to be said about waste management, which has already been dealt with by my opposition colleagues, and that I would overlook that. So, together with all these additions and my speech in favour of the general backwards in the environment, of course, as I said, Jobbik will support this change and this proposal for a decision. However, we would really like to draw the government's attention to the fact that, as I said, it is not just a coincidence that we opposition representatives are criticising the government's environmental policy, but that virtually every living and moving civil and environmental organisation, ombudsman, former State Secretary, and even now President of the Republic have taken a very positive step towards not signing this outrageous legislation. In this way, I ask you to think about these, because believe me, if so many people are speaking, there are so many speakers from all the areas involved, who are bravely expressing their criticism and opinions, it can certainly not be a coincidence. It is not that there is some kind of opposition conspiracy, but that they are on a very, very bad path when they are talking about protecting the environment, and in this way, unfortunately, those proposals, such as this one that we have just discussed, I say once again: we support, but I wanted to say these reservations. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-120	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-05-12-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The draft legislation before us can be approached in two directions. One direction is to try to talk about Hungary's environmental policy, the other is to try to talk about the plan itself, what is ahead of us. My fellow opposition members, who spoke before me, expressed environmental policy reservations and criticisms in roughly detail, said from soil protection, air purity protection, water protection, and nature conservation problems, all the anomalies that have occurred in the last five years. There was talk about how the environment and nature conservation system collapsed, about how the Fidesz government has been frivolous in dealing with the whole matter by undermining and subjugating this environmental policy. So I think there's no need for me to repeat that. So in terms of environmental policy, in terms of environmental and nature conservation professional activities, I believe that it is a significant secunda that can be prescribed to the government in the long term, and it is a pity to talk about it. However, after Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh is here, I will do the favor of not talking about this in my speech, but about the plan itself, which, overall, I think is a sound plan. As a result of my work, I have had the pleasure of seeing the previous three, both as civilians and as members of the National Environment Council, and I must say that this seems to be a professionally prepared, thought-out, consistently structured plan, with a number of measures in which there is indeed the possibility that, if there were any government intentions that we unfortunately do not see, it would be possible to achieve a useful nature conservation activity by 2020. If there were a source for this, there would be a government will, and there would be a system of institutions, the implementation of this programme could bring very, very serious, spectacular results, and I really think that it would be in line with our party's opinion that it could achieve professional goals with which we can achieve results. The main problem is that the last five years have obviously proved the opposite, because neither the government will nor the resources assigned to it are seen, nor the institutional background is seen, as it continues and continues to deteriorate. I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State, as in the previous debate, his colleague, that the 2016 budget is being negotiated, and now your portfolio has the opportunity to stand up for these principles, because now there is a solution to this being a source, and then you can really believe that this is a meaningful plan. In the same way, my fellow Members from KDNP gave me a surprisingly good assessment of the problems, and I think you have a surprisingly good view of the situation, and it was interesting for me to hear my fellow Earth Member speak. [[16.50]] The only problem is that there is a correct, positive assessment of the situation, just like the government has in this plan, and there are bad steps to do that. The representatives of the KDNP voted in favour of the removal of land in the management of national parks, just as they recently voted in favour of the possibility of creating a virtual green area for agricultural subsidies so as not to require large farmers to set ecological target areas. So, if you bring votes contrary to the measures and the legislation into Parliament, you can even bring such plans, and even if you have a good assessment of the situation, this will not go in the direction you have put it in! Allow me, Mr State Secretary, to really say only a few specific things without judging their environmental policy more effectively or more strongly than my fellow opposition Members have done. Forgive me for jumping right into my own specialty, the national nature conservation plan. That's what I've had the opportunity to look at in person, and I've found a lot of interesting things in it that I'd like to draw attention to. According to the 10th page figure, there are more than 2 thousand protected areas of local importance in Hungary. On the other hand, the actual situation is completely different, with Swiss support, the full countdown, the full ecological health check, and the database of this is at the Ministry, it has been downloaded. There's a completely unreal number on page 10. The question arises as to why they didn't build on the latest data during the planning process. But right after that, I was statistically counting how the hell that number came out, and I realized that in the number in the table, the local protected ones and the natural monuments were mixed up, and they didn't separate it in a relatively silly way, so there's such a nasty number on page 10. I think it would be professionally justified to distinguish that, since the Nature Conservation Act itself makes a distinction. In the middle of page 13, the programme describes an increase in the number of workers working on Natura 2000 issues at nature conservation bodies. I'll be very curious how this is going to happen. We're hearing completely opposite trends. There's this stupid tax code. The tax salad had this background to self-management institutional retirement of less than 100 people, which already affects national parks, but if anyone else finds out because they had a bad dream that even public workers might have to be removed from the workforce, it would affect even more national parks. So I will be very curious how, with such a background, such a nature conservation management policy, this will be achieved, because the reduction in the number of employees has already been implemented, the 40% budget support, while at the institutions of the other purses this ratio was 10 percent. There was obviously a significantly larger cut in Hungarian nature conservation. The national park directorates' support scheme for the management of nature conservation areas has been taken away. In vain, we asked and proposed as an amendment last year so that national parks would not be covered by the 1200 hectares subsidy limit, so that they could remain operational, the Fidesz government and the party factions supported this. On page 13, the preservation of the ownership integrity of Natura 2000 sites, if necessary, the retention of state ownership or the promotion of State ownership. There is obviously a question here, and in connection with property management legislation, we have also heard that this is an important goal, but professionally I am interested in why the Natura 2000s are being highlighted, and how is it possible that the Hungarian protected people are not highlighted in this regard. Why is the purchase of Natura 2000s more justified than the management of local protected ones? I will also be interested in the decision of the Constitutional Court to deal with this, as they have said so far that the NFA has the source, here is the pre-emptive right, so that the land should be transferred so that the pre-emptive right and the source can be in one place, now, hopefully, in accordance with the wise decision of the Constitutional Court, this will remain separate. So how are we going to source these Natura 2000 protected areas? There are several references in the material to the nature conservation information system as an indicator system. It is a very, very big task and it is very, very difficult to carry out continuous ecological, nature conservation and biological monitoring. In 2010, this was also a separate department, which only dealt with this, with the background to nature conservation information. The predecessor of your current government, the second Orbán cabinet, began by firing the head of the department immediately, and then, after a while, it was taken back, and finally, the whole department was terminated. I will be very interested to know where this constantly referred nature conservation information system will be implemented, where the institutional background will be, which will address this. But in the same way, the source of the biomonitoring and the conservation of biodata will be the source, because there will be no answer to that. A little professional interest: on pages 40 and 41 there is a discussion on invasion species. The creators performed a very serious language feat because they managed to write two pages without the word acacia ever being included in the material. Congratulations on that. From this point on, it is strange that there is an invasive species throughout Europe that is vulnerable to Natura 2000 habitats everywhere, but you have managed to miss it. I do not know if the problem is that the acacia is scientifically identical to what you have declared a hungaricum as a Hungarian acacia, because such a Hungarian nomenclature is not known in the profession. If this overlaps, I'll be curious about the situation. In this regard, the Ecological Centre of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences had some positions, but it is quite unworthy of invasive species that this was completely omitted. I found the most exciting, interesting and embarrassing part of the entire material on pages 29-30, where it concerns the management of property in protected areas. This is interesting because here the plan evaluates the importance of land in the management of national parks on a virtually full page. It evaluates on a whole page how important it is to maintain and develop this. And a man who voted a week ago to be taken from his wealth management notes this referral. I don't know if this predicts that you already know what the Constitutional Court is going to decide, and you are so far ahead of them, or you are so far behind, that you didn't even know that someone was going to want to take that away from you. This is definitely interesting, really, almost amusingly embarrassing. The increase in protected natural areas in the management of assets of directors - property management - is identified as the most important indicator, and, in the case of areas covered by the management of the assets of national park directors, the management of the assets of the boards should be increased. It's not like the rural strategy. The rural strategy talks about 288 thousand hectares in 2012, but the state of 31 December 2013 is already about 294 thousand hectares of wealth management. What I don't know is whether it's a few weeks or a year and a half ahead of us, because if they're putting it in now and they're arguing how important national park management is while they're taking it away, it's kind of embarrassing, to put it mildly. I'll keep going. On page 42, the material says that it is a significant achievement that in 2013 Hungarian gardens maintained 335 protected potted plant species in ex-situ, which contributed greatly to the achievement of the objectives set out in the conservation strategy for the flora as an integral part of the Convention on Biological Diversity. I admit that this is a significant achievement, the only question is what it is compared to. Does the manufacturer know how much he spent in 2009 and 2010? Because if we don't note how much it was then - I know how much it was - then this result is different than just writing down a number and adding that it is a result. By the way, there has obviously been a decline in opportunities due to previous institutional abolitions. The biodiversity monitoring system in 5.2.1 is relatively cleverly silent about the fact that there is no money to run this system, and I do not see it in budgetary systems either. I have already pointed out that it would be very necessary to add to the budget table how much money is planned to be spent on this, how much has been spent on maintenance between 2011 and 2014. 'Cause I've got a pretty good idea how much they've spent, but unfortunately, it's really, really sad. The sad thing about this is that we write something down - the paper can handle everything - but if it's not assigned to it, it's not worth anything. Environmental, nature conservation and water inspectorates - this is the title of 10.2. Here we find another embarrassing point, as it must not have been overlooked that these supervisors ceased on April 1st. In comparison, they are included in the proposal for a decision that will come before us in May. We would consider the reconstruction to be public, so if it were to predict that the supervisors would be restored, then we would easily support it, but if it were to be predicted that when his maker submitted it, he had no idea that there was no such oversight, it would be another embarrassing mistake in this draft. Otherwise, it would be worth rereading to the government or the specialist, because there are such unpleasant effects that when it comes to green authority and environmental oversight, it is not about whose jurisdiction it is, but about the authority itself. I was a little hurt by the VII. The fact that civil society organisations are virtually completely absent, although they should have been mentioned in the chapters on monitoring, research or awareness-raising, is partly about social relations. [[17.00]] Similarly, at the end, the annexes set out the institutional background for environmental and nature conservation awareness-raising, there is only one non-governmental green-education centre or forest school not included in the draft. If something is called a national, then it would be appropriate to fully include and maintain the social background. Obviously, Mr Secretary of State has recently been on a green OT, honoured by his presence at the event, he has certainly met with the fact that there are such green organisations in the country that carry out many, many of these activities. Despite all these criticisms and all these embarrassing bugs I found, I considered it a relatively thought-out, overall purposeful plan. Worst case scenario, we'd be staying, but in the faction, if this were to happen and we'd go over it again, I'd be more in favour of the support. In my opinion, if someone really wanted to do a nature conservation programme in Hungary, this would create this possibility. All that is needed is one more thing, and this is their approach, not the change of government, but their professional approach. This would be necessary because I was saddened to see that in the indicator systems, in the annexes, which are on pages 90-91, there are all kinds of information about infrastructure, about how many educational centres, how many paths, how many cave shows are being created. This is very, very good, let's say, in a tourism plan, but this should have given rise to the change in the estimated, expected indicator system of the different species. My fellow Member, Jobbik, spoke about swallows in his speech after yesterday's agenda. If we want to measure biodiversity and the effectiveness of nature conservation, then this can be done exclusively not with educational paths or educational centres, because it is only suitable for one segment, but also with the change in the stock of certain protected species and communities. Overall, I feel eligible for the plan. I would like to take out these various minor bugs, make some changes and update them. And by the way, I wish that there was strength, purpose, and source for it to come true. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-12-122	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I am now giving the opportunity to speak to Mrs Mónika Bartos as a pre-registered speaker.
u2015-05-12-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to add a few points to what has been said, since the Secretary of State and my fellow Members have also presented what is included in the national environmental programme, which is nearly 300 pages. This also shows how complex the area, how complex the thinking is. I would like to stress that everything we have written down and set a goal cannot be achieved without the support of society. I think that thinking is an important element of both this programme and our next item on the agenda, our strategy to promote biodiversity. This is also important because the ecological footprint of an average Hungarian citizen is 3.6 hectares, while there is only 2.7 hectares for one person in Hungary in a sustainable way. The good news for all of us is that according to Eurobarometer surveys, the awareness of the domestic population in environmental matters increased to 69 percent by 2014 compared to 41 percent in 2007. This is also due to the fact that we have made great efforts to improve environmental knowledge during the stages of the national environmental programme so far. I have experienced this myself, because in Sopron, I have the pleasure of talking to students at the Institute of Applied Arts about such topics, and I am shocked at how informed they are. It is also shocking that they feel and know the responsibility of the individual, their own responsibility, outside the institutions, and this can give us all hope. It is very important, and this is precisely what the government has placed emphasis on, and we are trying to focus on strengthening environmental awareness at all levels in training, higher education, and it is very good that the government has put the vocational training system on a new footing in order to give priority to green economy training. I mean, we're not very good at this yet. It is also an important result that food processing based on domestic agricultural production allows Hungary to become self-sufficient from the main foods, but it must be said that in the last ten years, the import of high processed foods in Hungary has increased. We are looking forward to it, and we are pleased that a strategy for the development of the food industry is being prepared with a HUF 300 billion EU resource to help this. Forests are a very important resource. We have to say that at the moment, forest frying is 21 percent, but the target is 27 percent forest frying by 2025. In addition, it should be pointed out that the share of logging has not increased significantly despite the rise in biomass-based energy production. As I said, this is a complex programme and it consists of a lot of small details and cross-cutting strategic objectives. Perhaps a small element, which is not so small, let me bring it to my fellow Members. And this is for the protection of bats. In my view, the example of complex thinking and commitment is that it is now important for the sub-programme "Hot Home" announced by the government this year for the modernisation and renovation of condominiums, which will generate energy savings, to provide information on whether the investments concerned by the tender affect protected animals, whether they affect the place of life of protected animals, typically bats. And if so, we can protect these bat populations and communities. It is a great pleasure for me to continue with the Teszd! It's a program that's gonna be held this weekend. Many families, young people of different ages, are involved. I think that this environmental awareness is a very important element of awareness campaigns. I encourage my fellow Members to take part in the Szedd on 16 May. in his next campaign. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-05-12-124	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck as a normal word applicant.
u2015-05-12-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the beginning of his speech, my colleague, Fraction, said that the environmental programme could be evaluated, expressed from an environmental policy perspective, and that it could also be assessed for what elements of activity the draft itself contains. I chose a third, a system-based approach. Environmental policy initially tried to address environmental problems, which was the era of end-of-pipe environmental protection. Then, with the idea of sustainable development, it became clear that the fate of the environment is inseparable from development, that is, our development ideas and practices determine the pressures on the environment. In the '90s, the world reached the point of realising that environmental protection cannot be a separate sector, environmental aspects must be integrated into sectoral policies. Obviously, this is a forward-looking principle, but it has not helped to alleviate environmental problems, since so far there has never been a political will to limit economic growth anywhere in the world, based on the expected or already actual scarcity of environmental resources. Unfortunately, the world does not currently have a macroeconomic response to how to grow the economy without increasing consumption. This, of course, results in the increase in the consumption of natural resources beyond the ecological tolerance of the global system and, instead of the 2 tonnes/year/person consumption that can be tolerated, it has approached 10 tonnes per person and every year in terms of total material consumption - i.e. five times more. Increasing material use represents an increasing environmental burden, which has become unmanageable at a number of points. [[17.10]] Such is the change in global carbon and nitrogen circulation, the accumulation of wind in the airspace as a result of climate change and, in conjunction with this, the unprecedented loss of biodiversity. The development of environmental policy, as outlined here, has also taken place here. It should be noted that the fourth national environmental programme ahead of us is the most complete among the previous programmes. For the first time, programming has reached the point of realizing that the state of the environment is determined by social driving forces. The value choice of society dictates the institutional system and the functioning structures and sectors. This results in environmental pressures, which, if they exceed the flexibility of environmental systems, will lead to a change in the state of the environment. The environment must therefore carry measures that change the driving forces that have a negative impact on the state of the environment. The NKP is attempting to do so, but at least it evaluates some of the social driving forces, and then it sets out very detailed directions for action for the sectors. However, beyond the praise of the programme, it is not possible to see how the fundamental reasons can be influenced by the programme, especially if they are not explored. The basic deficit is an analysis of the values of society. The programme reports on the decreasing importance of environmental protection in the development of the values of Hungarian society, based on Eurobarometer surveys. However, even this decreasing weight is favourable compared to real judgment. The truth comes out when we ask people not about their own values, but about the values of others. While family, human relations, health, personal safety and the quality of the environment in seventh place are the most important values in the surveyed's own range of values, if we ask the former citizens about the values of others, they put income, high living standards and a enjoyable life first. In line 30, the last place to look after the environment is the last. Unfortunately, this latter range of values better justifies the behaviour of society, the main value being high income and the associated consumption potential, and the environment can be sacrificed on the altar of everything. It is no wonder that political forces will come to power who identify with this set of values. While it would obviously be the responsibility of politics to think about the future to promote the restriction of greedy sections of society to meet its excessive needs, four-year political courses cannot be expected to undermine their own power by telling unpopular truths, especially by taking measures. This is, of course, not an exemption for politicians. All the more so, as society is not sufficiently sensitive to the negative environmental and social consequences generated by the economy, as the benefits of the income offered by the economy are direct and the damage generated will be indirect and other regions or other generations will be burdened in the future. In other words, the production of material goods is a short-term interest that undermines society's objectives for the future. In doing so, the choice of individual well-being precedes the need for the survival of the human race, individual and group interests conflict with social interests, short-term goals conflict with long-term goals. The correct choice of value, the proper assessment of the environment, is essential for people to understand that their material consumption needs must be limited on their own will. However, while we are waiting for this, we need a regulatory system that prevents us from constantly increasing our environmental burden. At this point, the correct assessment of domestic loads should be addressed. Many of our politicians today boast that, based on domestic figures, the environmental burden has decreased significantly, while GDP has started to grow. This is supported by the fact that greenhouse gas emissions decreased by almost 40 percent, and we can also report a decline in energy consumption in the short term. However, if this were true, our country would be among the first to have been able to separate GDP growth in absolute terms from the increase in environmental burdens. However, the situation analysis forgets that due to the transformation of the domestic economic structure, the environmental burden of related economic activities remains outside the country, and this shift covers the real environmental performance of our country. Since we have no interest in exploring this, NKP IV. He's also being modestly silent about this fact. There are two important ways to reduce its environmental burden. One is the reduction of total material consumption, which also involves reducing environmental emissions. Another condition is the complete ban on the conversion of natural ecosystems and the restoration of the services of damaged ecosystems through sustainable use. It follows that the State should be provided with means to reduce the use of resources. Such an instrument could be development policy, along with its resources. It is possible to coordinate the reduction of growth and environmental burdens through development policy, and it would be very good for Minister Lazarus to hear them once. This would require development policy to support only activities that trigger an earlier activity with a lower environmental burden than the previous one. Achieving such an objective would also guarantee that spending development and Community money is not for private and group interests, but for the main public good, the environment. Unfortunately, however, the NKP does not use this option, it does not analyse development policy as a driving force and does not develop a programme to bring it into service. Nor does the NKP address the elimination of environmental losses from waste. Paradoxically, we must say that fortunately we have reserves. It's a paradox, because our reserves come from waste control. The limited nature of natural resources is unquestionable because of the fundamental law of ecology. The potential for growth is limited in nature, because different environmental processes limit each other. Yet, mankind's greatest waste is what is scarce at its disposal, environmental resources. It is known to everyone how low the primary energy sources are transformed and that only a few percent of the primary energy source is used by the final consumer. It is also morally alarming that nearly half of the food materials and prepared foods produced will become waste. In transport, we sometimes go for miles completely aimless, and in trade we transport goods for up to a thousand kilometres only to increase the choice to prevent local producers from competing in price competition. We build huge houses, supply energy without inhabiting them, or taking advantage of them for the family, and we do so despite knowing that we will eventually be left alone in them. We destroy living things aimlessly and senselessly because we have no idea what their role is in the community of life. As much as we would use wasted resources to save money, so much less of nature should be taken away, so much less renewed, and during renewal, we would not pollute our environment with emissions, or live up to the natural habitats, the sites of renewal. Why can a society that does not waste the resources of the environment not be brought to life, and why should it be wasted? Growth is its own, no matter what drives it. Growth is caused by the correction of the mistakes made, natural disasters, wars, accidents, and social waste are the biggest drivers of the economy. Production may increase if consumption increases, if some eat what we produce. In the absence of demand, production is pointless. It is noteworthy that the economy is not a waste, because in order to maximise profits, the economy is interested in increasing efficiency. However, the economy is interested in wasted society, as growth can come from more solvent consumers, i.e. population growth, growing consumer needs and wasting. [[17.20]] The economy is interested in making mistakes either by itself or by society, as correction of errors is also an order for the economy. In particular, repairing environmental problems for ourselves is also a driving force for growth, so environmental protection is not a priority to prevent problems but to deal with them ex-postly, as we see in waste management and sewage treatment. In order to ensure sustainable use of resources, economic efficiency is not enough; society must also be effective in the consumption of natural goods. While we take care of the former, we listen deeply to the latter. Dear Parliament, It would therefore be an illusion to believe that without the large social and economic framework, without reorganizing social value choice, we can solve our environmental problems. The reason for the unsustainable world is the values, attitudes, knowledge, behaviour, and culture of work that do not take into account the future, which wastes the resources of the Earth in order to gain short-term benefits. Only a higher morality and a deeper understanding of processes can be the basis for people overcoming selfishness, momentary interests and making sacrifices with at least a pinch of resignation for their future. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-12-126	As a normal comment, I am now giving the opportunity to Congressman Jenő Manninger.
u2015-05-12-127	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to make a brief addition to the speech and to reply to a few comments. Of course, I think we could have a long discussion, and I think those who are talking about it agree that even the Union's environmental policy, the goals of the world, can be analysed and the consumer world changed. There is no doubt that we can say in the area of transport that there has been a great deal of action in Europe and in Hungary, but they will probably not be enough, but I think that all the objectives that the European Union decides or what Hungary decides, however, in the documents in front of us, still contain significant progress. As many people here have said about the opposition side, they actually agree, and they will rather be watching whether these will be achieved and implemented as described, so I think this is a nice task. Let me just say so much about the comments that, of course, we have learned that the MSZP does not support the reduction of the rent right now, because they have just taken out these actual policy things, and I think that this has been rediscovered. If this is good for them, they should continue to insist on this, so they did not support the reduction of the rent, they still do not think it is good, but I think that the reduction of the rent has been beneficial in all aspects. It is also a fact that we can tell a lot of data - which my fellow Member here has also described - which do not, however, paint a terrible picture of Hungary at all. If we start to present the data, it turns out that significant progress has also been made in many areas in recent years. It has not only increased public awareness, which has already increased before, and it is true that the importance of the environment has been reduced, as has also been said, but unfortunately it has decreased throughout Europe. So statistics can always be extracted, but we have achieved results in a lot of areas, and - with the help of EU funds, of course - Hungary, and Hungary's image is changing, the cities' lives are changing. We could list a lot of cities, including the center of my constituency, Keszthely, where they won a lot of applications, otherwise not outstanding, so I have to say, there are a lot of places where there are more, so from biomass power plants to solar panels, to energy-raised solutions to change public lighting. So many, many, many of these programmes are going to take place, and it is likely that more will happen in the next period, so I think that there will also be a major success side, and, as I said, of course, this can be achieved primarily from European Union funds. So I wouldn't paint such a black picture, which, of course, the opposition might try at times, because environmental protection is a good topic in this respect, but, as I said, I mentioned, the results and statistics are fundamentally different. It is a different issue now, and that is another subject, it really does not belong to what it is usually enough for in the world, but it only increases the importance of it, and I agree with those who show that we have a thorough document before us, and, of course, we all have an obligation to achieve as much of it as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-12-128	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in a normal time frame.
u2015-05-12-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, My fellow Member Jenő Manninger, in spite of his intentions and his will, gave me two balls that I would like to respond to, because I would be very interested to know what the statistics on environmental policy are reporting on results, because I do not really know about them. So if you look at all the results that are trying to analyze our real environmental status, they are unfortunately not positive. What is true of what the Member said is that, according to European trends, certain processes - unfortunately, we have to establish - also apply to our country - are all negative processes. I am not saying that the Fidesz government is to blame for this, so they do not have to apologize, but there are many other factors, so there are also global impacts, but our environmental status is not fundamentally improved. So if you look at the amount of air pollution, the amount of recycling, or a lot of other things, I don't think there's any very, very good results here. And one more thing was also about financing: it is also very, very important to see that there is actually funding for an environmental programme, so there is a structural fund - KIOP, then KEOP - that has financed environmental protection tasks, but the problem is precisely because of the fact that there are multiples of infrastructure development activities in the environment, which are directed contrary to nature conservation objectives. We put a billion in some way into an environmental task if we use multiples to counter environmental destruction, and it is very important that this is not in proportion to each other. So the point of my first comment was that this would require much more intent and much more resources. If this is what I'm talking about, that we need a lot of resources, then it's worth talking about the thing I've drawn attention to, which is that the indicators and statistics of this, if you like to look at the whole material, contain a lot of data in 2010-11-12, at best in 2013, most of them are relevant. Obviously, it seems as if everything had stopped here in 13, so this design process or I don't know what it is, it's finished, but I don't understand why it wasn't submitted for a year if it stopped. This is interesting because, in the 2015 budget, we should have allocated funds to these implementations, which were not. Let me tell you something interesting that I've labulated out of the material here. The environmental law provides for the environmental programme - this is the environmental law 40. §2 (1) of the Act on Environmental Planning is based on a national environmental programme renewable every six years, approved by the National Assembly. When submitting a proposal for the renewal of the programme, the government must report before the Parliament on the implementation of the programme and its experience in implementation. I don't know if I've been left out of anything in the last year, but I haven't seen it before this House to report on the previous programme, and it would have been a legal obligation to do so before we begin to discuss it. The material itself says that the government in the current programme refers to the completion of the six-year report. Then where is this? Who's hiding this? How could it not have come before the National Assembly if the law said it should have been here? So I don't know what happened to this. It is equally interesting for me, at least - but I know it doesn't mean anything - and the law requires that the programme is also set out in - 40. § 4 - economic policy decisions must be enforced during territorial and urban development, regional planning and state planning and enforcement activities in any sector of the national economy. I can honestly say that I have seen a lot of things in this House in the last year, but I have never seen one of these legislations argue that what the environmental programme contains is a very big mistake, because that is what we are talking about, what is the intention of implementation, to achieve something from this. [[17 .30]] Paragraph 1 of this Article - economic policy decisions should be implemented in the context of territorial and urban development, regional planning and public planning and implementation activities in any sector of the national economy. I can honestly say that I have seen a lot of things in this House in the last year, but I have never seen one of these legislations argue that what the environmental programme contains is a very big mistake, because that is what we are talking about, what is the intention of implementation, to achieve something from this.(17.30) Let me just say one interesting thing: the 2015 budget, when we say that everything should be subject to the programme, there is nothing wrong with that, I am just setting an example. In support of strategic measures to improve the situation in the pig sector, FM made HUF 1.4 billion from the budget in its 2015 budget. Here's the data: according to the report of the National Institute for Environmental Health, the deaths of more than 1,500 people per year could be prevented by providing adequate air pollution data. To reduce air pollution caused by PM10, how much do you think the government has spent? 54 million. So in its proportions, these figures show such significant differences that there may be concerns about the intention of implementation, and I can only repeat myself that the programme is overall good, but I just need someone who wants to implement it, I need a government intention to allocate all the resources to it, and that this programme could be used - to answer some of its points. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-12-130	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2015-05-12-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Their reduction in the rent was just as good as saving foreign exchange credentials, but people don't feel it, the big problem, you know, my dear fellow Member; the most important of all, of course, is that people can pay their bills and we also support the fact that they have to pay as little as possible. You have only managed to create a system of waste management that has made the whole system unsustainable, because you have managed to impose only a small amount of six taxes on these non-profit companies, such as product charges, deposit charges, tolls, supervisory fees, telephone taxes and reduced overhead. You know, if you asked your own mayors, who are involved in non-profit waste management companies, they would say that they are actually slowing down there, that there will be situations in Naples in the country, because they won't be able to take the waste away, and then they will hand this job over to disaster management, because disaster control is really getting to everything, but they're not getting any extra resources - they're really going to do everything. It was just a well-functioning system that worked normally, even had the opportunity to raise people to a sustainable system, and otherwise it worked normally. You've managed to create a system that's unsustainable, and the mayors say you can't maintain this system in this system. I don't understand, really: either they live only in this world, which is within the walls of Parliament, and they don't talk to their own fidesz mayors, or they really don't understand what people are saying. The problem is, then, that a system must be put in place that is operational, functioning from all sides: from the people's side, from the waste management companies' side and from all sides, my dear fellow Member. Thank you. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2015-05-12-132	I now give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger for a two-minute comment.
u2015-05-12-133	Thank you very much. I'd just like to say this briefly, because I think we're talking on two levels. So what I can say about reducing the rent is that, on the contrary, I think that's what people feel. Of course, there is a burden left, but people have already felt a 10% reduction in their overhead costs in a positive sense, no doubt. Another question is that the effect does not last forever, so it is obvious. But they felt it, so I can tell you this after seeing it not only on my own account, but also talking to the people who did it. On waste management, I think it could be a long time, I do not want to get involved in this, they are written down, the congresswoman can read it, obviously, and then in the presentation she missed, that I did not read it exactly, there are very precise plans written there too. However, I must say that there have, of course, been a number of problems in the transformation of the waste management system. But I have to say that we also achieved a reduction in fees compared to April 2012, so it was a very important thing that they had fallen. How this will be sustainable in the long term is a serious problem, but it is in the interests of the people that the reduction has been made, and I must say this. I can say that I do not want to start saying statistics now, because the fact is that if we take numbers out, first of all, because in many cases numbers are not available from 2010 to 15, but there are no doubt that there are processes that have already been held in 2007. Let's just say that there are no statistics available for the last years, but the fact is, I am only saying this to my fellow Member from LMP, that I understand that he is dissatisfied with everything, and I think that a man committed to the environment, whose image is based on this, is a natural part of that dissatisfaction. So I agree that this is an important thing, but there are results, even if they can be debated. So Hungary has made progress in the field of renewable energy, Hungary has made progress in the area of selective collection, and has also made progress in the area of air pollution, although there is no doubt that there is a lot of data to be produced here, and I do not say that this is the merit of the last one or two years. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] But for example, transport policy, the planning and development of cities have had many results, which have all had tangible results, and obviously not only that 54 million... - because air pollution can be achieved not by such measures in particular, but also by integrated policies. Thank you. [[Laszlo Earth applauds.]]
u2015-05-12-134	I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck in a normal time frame.
u2015-05-12-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that the voice of Congressman Manninger makes me want to speak again. I think that such an environmental programme, which is for several years in advance, should certainly be part of it, so that we can have a serious, deep debate here in the House of the country on how we stand with regard to the state of the environment, which are the most serious problems in this area and what should be done. I think that one of the biggest problems here is that we treat environmental protection as a sectoral problem. So here, Congressman Manninger has also said that we have achieved results in waste, improving air quality, but we are not talking about or discussing how the environment has become limited, and within these frameworks, what opportunities are provided for the development of the economy. The same way we want to separate, we believe that we can do anything in society and do anything in the economy, not considering the potential of the environment. If we do not discover this and do not change that, then we will not be responsible politicians and we will not be able to establish a good economic policy for the longer term. Mr Manninger referred to the European Union's environmental policy. The European Union's environmental policy, yes, flourished a little, but not in this decade, but in the last decade, until the early 2000s, until the institutional system became stronger and stronger. But somehow, in 2008, when the economic crisis in the world got deeper again, the European Union also began to weaken its environmental policy. The European Union has forgotten what it said earlier that one of the main tasks is to integrate environmental aspects into sectors. So I think that we cannot be as proud of the European Union in terms of environmental policy as it had previously begun. I do not want to go into domestic environmental policy, its institutional system, but I think that unfortunately, we are also witnessing that it has been weakened in our area as well. I don't want to read anyone's head that the independent Ministry of Environment and all that. I think that the biggest problem, however, is that not only the environmental awareness of society is low, but at least the environmental awareness of the Members of Parliament is at least as low, and that is for sure to change quickly - I think because otherwise there will be very serious problems - it will be necessary. Thank you. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-05-12-136	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, State Secretary, to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-05-12-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to thank you for all the contributions. There is no criticism of the environment, of the nature conservation issue. I believe that we are all contributing to paying even more attention to the environment and nature. However, I also believe that environmental protection and nature conservation are not just some kind of fighting activity that can be done with fist-clenched hands, with wrinkled foreheads, with a sad look and a row of worse indicators. After all, there are some areas in which we have achieved positive results either in the world or back home. [[17.40]] Perhaps I would first consider the thoughts of Mrs Anita Heringes in the list of comments, although I would have preferred that we were talking about this, which is the programme itself, because we can discuss the other issues in the context of interpellation and an immediate question, but let me just mention that there could be another attitude. For example, the Member would say that we, the socialists, have a role to play in the increase in environmental awareness - something that Mónika Bartos spoke about in her speech - because NKP III has a role to play. This is also the result, and there is already a positive comment, and not just about our lack of credibility. You and several of your opposition fellow Members spoke about the institutional system. This is, of course, an important element, but let us record that we are not here to finance the institutional system. The institutional system itself is an asset, not a purpose. The aim is to preserve and preserve an excellent, good environmental condition and nature. I'm not sure there's necessarily a close correlation between who's in charge of the environmental authority and what level a government is installing it to. This is also done by a number of other countries, such as Slovakia, and by indicators that can be expressed in numbers, whether infrastructural results or indicators in air and water quality or biodiversity. Let me mention with regard to the declining money of civil society organisations that during this period civil society organisations should, of course, not only rely on domestic resources, because the EU support system has given civil society organisations the opportunity to increase environmental awareness, and we also want them to benefit from it in the coming period. Waste management is an area where we have been particularly successful in recent years. Think back, everyone, 10 to 15 years ago, there was a hole next to every village where they poured the garbage they collected. These non-licensed and non-technically-insured landfills have ceased to exist, none of them have permission anymore, and we're gonna recreate them in a row, and there's hardly any left. But to say the number, for selective waste collection, the level of 2009 is 183 percent of the amount of waste collected separately by the public at the level of 2000. So there are results in this regard, and since then... - I'm sorry, compared to 2009 in 2014, I'm sorry. And it is a very important milestone on 1 January when we operate the separate system throughout Hungary and, unlike EU rules, a selective system has developed as a main rule. Some municipalities have doubled in January the amount of waste with higher purity, selective collection and valuable secondary raw material compared to December. The reduction of the rent: I also said, Madam Congresswoman, that clear sentences should be said. We, socialists, want to raise the waste transfer fee - we have to say this. That's what you're saying. Don't say that's not good and that's not good. You have to raise it. [[Anita Beringes: Six taxes have been levied!]] For the tax sex... First of all, there's a deposit fee. What you criticise, for example, is the landfilling levy, the tool used in all developed waste management countries. The fee is to get as little useful waste as possible into the landfill, to divert it from the landfill, and the waste disposal contribution - now HUF 7.1 billion - will be fully returned to the farm and service companies. So I suggest that you consider whether this current situation is not a transitional period. I feel like you're popping into a house under paint, putting your hands on your hips, telling me what kind of mess we're in. Now there is a transformation, the start of the transformation started when we formed municipal and state majority-owned companies from profit-oriented companies, and then it became non-profit, and there is still a task. For example, to create units that can be economically operated in the country, which is both from the point of view of waste management and environmental aspects, and to establish a long-term, sustainable charging system based on the principle of solidarity. We are at work, and it is indeed not good to be a public service manager today, because this world is full of problems, but, in the end, I think that we are committed to serving the recipient of the service, and indeed, during this period, we should help him get through the management difficulties and do this transformation as soon as possible, but let us note that at the moment, this does not cause any inconvenience for the user of the service, and represents a particularly low-level service fee, and we have not changed this for three years. In the case of parlagfű several times, the topic brought here before the House: the Hungarian state spent tens of billions of HUF on this area against the 600-700 million. So it is also good to say this several times, and the Association for Parlagweed-free Hungary itself has asked us not to give this up by accident, all the money for thinking, but it would be good to give it to public companies for cars and infrastructure to land these areas. The Ministry of Agriculture has allocated this amount without shortage to associations that want to kill grass, not just to tell others to kill parlagfüt. Mr Zoltán Magyar talked about the reduction of renewable energy. Congressman, let me mention that the numbers do not justify this. In the period 2007-2013 there was HUF 219 billion in this area, which will increase to HUF 370 billion in the 2014-2020 period. His thoughts on the free movement of capital, to rely instead on local resources, are divided. Many of these programmes serve this purpose, such as the "Short Supply Chain" programme, which is one of the most important elements of the rural development programme and indeed has significant environmental impacts. Our aim is to prevent food from being carried across continents by developing local food production and processing. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek spoke of a broken institutional system. Here again and again, let me mention that a number of institutions can work well and work less well. Let me mention some of the results that have been made in the past year. We spent 2.5 billion forints on the national air pollution measurement network. In fact, the entire measuring network has been renewed, its laboratory background, we have purchased over 300 new measuring and laboratory instruments, we have installed four new mobile measuring stations. But the aim here is not the measuring station, but air quality, let me mention that there are positive data here, as in PM10, so pollution with a particle size of less than 10 microns has not exceeded the limit for three years. [[17.50]] Thus, air quality has improved with regard to small particulate matter. And let me confirm our fellow Member, Jenő Manninger, who has corrected here that there is no mention of spending fifty or a few million forints on this. This is the central coordination of the programme. Hundreds of billions of dollars is the program that we use for air quality. This includes replacing the entire bus network, but also the coordination of heating systems. So a tens of years of programme has been prepared by the government, which, once again, has the magnitude of hundreds of billions. Thank you for thinking of a professionally prepared and thought-out programme, and if there is a source and a will, we will achieve this. Here I also mention that there are not some unfortunate failures in this material when it records the name of the institutional system two months ago. Obviously, we cannot initiate an administrative consultation within the public administration on behalf of a future institutional system. Ms Erzsébet Schmuck is about integrating environmental aspects, how important it is to integrate them in sectoral policy. On the one hand, let me mention that these aspects appear in a number of documents, such as the National Transport Infrastructure Development Strategy, the National Action Plan for the Development of Organic Farming, the Second National Climate Change Strategy, the National Waste Management Plan and the National Forestry Strategy. But let me give you a practical example. The second or third phase of the Kis-Balaton water protection system has been completed in the last year, depending on how we look at it. Everyone considered this to be some kind of water development and did not have much attention; more than six billion programmes. This programme has broken up with a water-only approach so far, and has put first the need to achieve ecological objectives, such as the expansion of wetlands with a huge area, and can be controlled in flooding areas where there has been no water, except for almost a rare period. In the other part, however, it tries to eliminate the associated water areas that can produce only a poorer life from the point of view of wetlands. So the first aspect of this investment was specifically nature conservation, the element of biodiversity. The second element was improving water quality. Here, let me mention some changes over the decades. While at the time the Kis-Balaton was made to prevent Zala's unclean and high-contaminated water from being released directly into Lake Balaton, the situation is now reversed, because sometimes the Zalán, thanks to the sewage treatment, comes down to cleaner water than that which could be transferred from Kis-Balaton, and this system is now able to close it short. But the same solution serves a third element besides ecological goals and water quality improvement, which is flood protection. This investment shows that there is no need to look at technical interventions with a clear contrast, it can serve other purposes than conservation interests. Overall, let me thank you all for this constructive debate. I also strive in my work to make sure that the assumptions that appear about the fate of national parks disappear as a result of the lack of confidence in them. I am convinced that a significant part of this is due to the fact that we do not talk enough to each other, and we presumably assume the government, the ministries, that there is some ulterior motive behind the existing technical amendments. I trust that our work in the coming period will disprove this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-12-138	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the proposal for a decision on a national strategy for the conservation of biodiversity for the period 2015-2020 is now taking place until closure. The submission is H/4581. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor once again to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-12-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The H/4581 in front of you. The proposal for a Decision contains Hungary's national biodiversity conservation strategy for 2015-2020. Hungary's first biodiversity conservation strategy expired in 2014 and it was therefore necessary to review and renew it. Another reason for the creation of a new national biodiversity conservation strategy for 2015-2020 is that, due to the continuing decline in biodiversity diversity, significant international and EU commitments have been made, which need to be integrated into national development processes in line with the specific circumstances of each country. The aim of the proposed decision is to determine the survival of Hungary's highly diverse life on a European scale, to halt the loss of biodiversity and the further decline of ecosystem services, and to ensure that ecosystems are improved as far as possible. Biodiversity is a diversity of life on earth, of living life, the existence and survival of which is essential to ensure the conditions of human life and our well-being and even our economic development. Biodiversity includes the diversity of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems and diversity between species and within species, including both wild fauna and flora and the variety of farmed species and varieties, which are the basis of our agriculture, i.e. genetic diversity. Biodiversity also provides ecosystem services that are essential for human life. At this point, everyone thinks only of the pollinating activity of bees, that without them, we could not maintain our agricultural production, although there are also foreign articles about the fact that in some countries, fruit trees are pollinated with human hands, because there are no sufficient quantities of insects. So this problem is also real. However, it is much more than that. Healthy biological systems provide us, among other things, healthy food, natural pharmaceutical materials, drinking water, clean air, a peaceful, recreational habitat for people, along with many other living organisms. The undisturbed ecosystems play a role in avoiding disasters, epidemics and diseases, mitigating their harmful effects and regulating the climate. Hungary has been a Party to the Convention on Biological Diversity since 1993 and for 20 years the 1995 LXXXI has been a Party to the Convention on Biological Diversity. It was done by law. The Convention requires all parties, including our country, to develop a national strategy for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of biodiversity. The European Union's biodiversity strategy for 2020 is one of the outstanding results of the effective work of the Hungarian presidency staff during the Hungarian Presidency of the European Union in June 2011. [[18.00]] National strategies of the Member States of the European Union should be drawn up in line with this. The priority is to stop the loss of biodiversity and the decline of ecosystem services by 2020 by Member States, including our country, and to restore habitats as far as possible. In addition, they need to contribute more to reducing global biodiversity loss, i.e. more emphasis is placed on international cooperation in the area of biodiversity protection. It is therefore also the responsibility of Hungary to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Global Strategic Plan for the Conservation of Biodiversity 2011-2020 and to develop its national objectives accordingly. In addition, we must comply with the renewed strategy of the European Union's biodiversity strategy for 2020 adopted under the Hungarian EU Presidency. The document before you is primarily a comprehensive strategy for the conservation and sustainable use of Hungary's biodiversity. In line with international and EU obligations, biodiversity conservation is not a private matter for some people, but must be integrated into cross-sectoral policies, strategies and programmes and their implementation in order to maintain our natural resources, the biological funds on which this country is based. To achieve this, we have set out the objectives of the national biodiversity strategy and measures to achieve them. In line with the structure of the EU biodiversity strategy, the Strategy focuses on six areas: the protection of protected areas and species; the maintenance of landscape diversity, green infrastructure and ecosystem services; the promotion of the role of agriculture in the preservation of biodiversity; sustainable forest and wildlife management; the protection of aquatic resources; the fight against invasive alien species, also known as flood species, and the involvement of our country in the implementation of the obligations arising from international biodiversity protection agreements. Within these strategic areas, twenty objectives focus on addressing domestic biodiversity protection problems, of which I would particularly like to highlight the application of the precautionary principle to address the negative effects on biodiversity when introducing genetically modified organisms into the environment. Of course, there are a number of specific objectives for each objective, which are implemented through measures and monitored by indicators. The strategy also identifies actors and responsible institutions involved in implementation. Dear Parliament, H/4581 submitted on 30 April. The Commission therefore proposes to maintain the biodiversity of our country, to improve the state of ecosystem services, which are essential to ensure the conditions of human life and to ensure our well-being. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the proposal for a resolution on the basis of the reasons given and to adopt it afterwards. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-12-140	Dear Parliament, We will now begin with the speeches by the representatives, and we will start with the speeches by the keynote speaker, as appropriate. I therefore give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-12-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the former item, we discussed the proposal for a decision on a national environmental programme, and before that, the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Mr Manninger pointed out that the national environmental programme is an integral part of the framework strategy for national sustainable development, and now we have a national strategy for the conservation of biodiversity. We might think that one strategy follows another, that some might wonder whether there is any point to all these strategies - as has been said in my fellow Member before - whether these strategies are worth something, or whether they are intended only for the desk drawer. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I confess to my fellow Members that the general debate on the framework strategy for national sustainable development has been one of the most memorable points on the agenda, not only because it was good to agree on something and to make a decision by consensus, to vote for a common value, but also because it is memorable that today we cannot pretend and think that this framework strategy does not exist, because it exists. We refer to it, I have done it several times myself, and if everything is not perfect yet, but we know that we must comply with it, we must comply with it. This strategy is also important because all strategies are creeds, as they say what we have done wrong so far and what we want to achieve in the future; a written document on important values for us and a physical warning if we move in a different direction. For a society, the strategy for the future is not just a set of guidelines and objectives, it is like a living conscience. So there is a need for strategies. And how much it is necessary to define, describe and implement our goals, let me quote a paragraph of the national environmental programme we have just discussed. This is how it is said:. The findings and forecasts based on international and European statistics and indicators are also in line with the results of the large-scale questionnaire research on complex processes and contexts conducted in the framework of the research carried out by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in 2025. The research identified among the main global problems: over-use of the environment, loss of energy resources, increase in the frequency of weather extremes, population explosion in the developing world, population decline in welfare states, conflict of cultures, primary principles of profit-making, political conflicts. In addition to general negative trends, for example, there is hope that by 2025 professionals will see a chance for global cooperation, which could lead to a reduction in physical pollution. - so far is the paragraph quoted. There is therefore a success experience, a success experience, which is the result of decisions and coordinated actions. The strategy before us, linked to the national environmental programme, aims to preserve biodiversity and focuses on it. Perhaps it is not exaggeration to say that the preservation of biodiversity is the basis for our survival. Unbelievably complex and interrelated systems serve the survival of the living world, including its man, one of the keys of which is to adapt to the ever-changing environment. If there are many and large changes in this complex system, it can fundamentally shake the sustainability of the whole system. Many now warn of the signs of this. Many have said many things about how we should relate to nature, to our environment. I am not quoting them, but I would like to draw attention to a Hungarian proverb: what you can do today, do not delay it tomorrow. I think that this call is very timely when it comes to preserving biodiversity. As the Secretary of State said, a number of domestic and international circumstances and obligations called for the strategy - but what is the purpose of the strategy? In the national biodiversity strategy's 2020 vision, it sets out to halt the decline in biodiversity and the further decline in ecosystem services in Hungary and to improve their state as far as possible. [[18.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, In order to achieve this, however, a change of perspective is the most important. I think that the national environmental programme and the national strategy for the conservation of biodiversity go hand in hand, complementing each other in this area. They say that everything is decided in mind, I share this opinion, so I believe that thinking is one of our greatest weapons, our tool to fight against environmentally harmful processes and customs. The basic objective of the strategy before us is to integrate biodiversity conservation aspects into, and implement, cross-sectoral policies, strategies and programmes. To achieve this, the national biodiversity strategy places emphasis on six strategic areas, as Mr State Secretary said, in line with the structure of the EU's biodiversity strategy. These include the protection of protected areas and species, the maintenance of landscape diversity, green infrastructure and ecosystem services, the enhancement of the role of agriculture in the conservation of biodiversity, the focus on sustainable forest and wildlife management and the protection of aquatic resources, the fight against invasive alien species, also known as flood species, and the involvement of our country in the implementation of the obligations arising from international biodiversity protection agreements. Within the six strategic areas, twenty objectives focus on addressing domestic biodiversity protection problems. Allow me, fellow Members, not to list the other areas of the strategy, and I think that we will have another opportunity to do so at a later stage of the discussion, and I would prefer to focus on complexity by mentioning some examples. One example is perhaps the area of national parks. I would like to point out that from the start of 2007 in the framework of the 3rd priority axis of the Environment and Energy Operational Programme for Nature Conservation Development, until today, the national park directorates have implemented 94 developments in more than 118 thousand hectares of target areas. These included 6 forest school development, 3 garden reconstruction projects in two objects, 31 habitat reconstruction projects, 13 inanimate natural values, caves, sinkholes, kunhalom, land castle development, 10-line facilities, roads, mid-voltage air lines natural friendly remodeling or 31 nature conservation infrastructure development projects, all in the hundreds of millions or even billions. We know that a total of 1.4 million visitors were registered in the national parks in 2012, which represents 10 percent more guests than in the previous year. It should be said that these visitors are mostly children or family members, and this is a potential opportunity for social thinking and practical nature conservation education, because if a young person walks in these national parks, does not litter in such a place, and consciously takes care of nature conservation values, then this will continue to be reflected in his everyday activities. A visitor who rows in the Tapolca Lake Cave, which has just been renovated, gets a lifetime experience, and as a result of the renovation, not only the environment receiving the visitor is cleaner, but it is transparent and the XXI. You will receive information of the quality and technology of the century. So it can be said here that we are talking about national parks, and these national parks actions can be grouped into strategic areas 1 and 2. Or in the same way, forests need a complex approach, as it is necessary to support conservation of forest genetic resources, linking them to combating climate change, as forest and energy plant and reproductive material producers are seedlings of future forests and energy plantations. At the same time, the environmental and nature conservation, welfare and aesthetic functions highlighted in recognition of the economic role of the forest, and the species and species associated with the domestic forests mean that forests play a key role in the conservation of biodiversity, but not only in this. In 2012 there were 22 forest schools in the management of forestry companies and 15 forest schools in the maintenance of national park directorates, but also social organisations and enterprises maintain a number of forest schools and provide services based on local conditions. Here, too, what I have said about national parks is that they are very important in raising and shaping children, for example, who is involved in a series of Vaccor Castle programmes, for example, will be linked to forests in the lowlands. So this shows that thinking about forests includes not only a strategic target area, but also strategic areas 1, 2 and 4. There are a lot of targeted programmes in the strategy before us, but all of this will remain dreams if we do not implement them. I share my fellow Members' views on this because we and our children need results. And if these objectives are not just dreams, but results, the first step is that my fellow Members adopt the strategy before us. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-12-142	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the group of the MSZP, Ms Anita Heringes, will be here to speak. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-12-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary signed the Convention on Biological Diversity in 1992. According to the provisions of the Convention, our country also had to develop a national strategy for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of biodiversity. The national strategy for the conservation of biodiversity, which is annexed to the proposal for a decision submitted, for the period 2015-2020, meets the criteria. At the same time, the last five years of activities of the Orbán government are decredited, as we have just said. It is not possible to take government intentions seriously when we have witnessed the destruction of the environmental institutional system in recent years. Nor can it be said of the implementation of a significant obligation on organic farming when Kishantos was well plowed and decades of work have been destroyed. It is not possible to improve the state of Natura 2000 sites and areas covered by protected natural or international nature conservation agreements and to ensure adequate conservation management when the government is making impossible the national park directorates on which the national nature conservation system is based. This also puts at risk the improvement of the conservation status of the species of the worst-case Community importance and of the most endangered protected species. The withdrawal of 40 per cent of the budget resources for national park directorates, which you have gone through, hampers the development of a knowledge base for the successful and effective conservation of species of Community importance and of Community importance. In the same way, improving the visibility and social perception of biodiversity, protected natural values and protected natural areas of Community importance and Natura 2000 sites will be put at risk by means of information, awareness-raising and demonstration tools when the operation of national park directorates becomes unsustainable. As long as Hungary does not have an operational programme for rural development approved by the Union, we cannot move forward in preserving landscape diversity and ecological landscape potential. Due to the lack of agreed EU development programmes and to the downsizing of the domestic institutional system, it is also not possible to develop the elements of green infrastructure in a coordinated way, to maintain and improve the functioning of natural systems and to facilitate adaptation to the effects of climate change. [[18.20]] Due to the significant slippage of poor land law and support programmes, the elimination of agri-environmental aid and the withdrawal of failed land-based support, it is not possible to spread a diverse mosaic agriculture focusing on the conservation of biodiversity, environmental and landscape protection aspects, focusing on the use of domestic and local biological funds. Finally, the implementation of the strategy and the monitoring of its implementation are not seen in the proposal in a very typical manner for government policy. The 2017 report is limited, while at least a checkpoint or milestone should be referred to. The Hungarian Socialist Party agrees with the national strategy for the conservation of biodiversity for the period 2015-20, and considers the objectives described in it acceptable, but given that the strategy's own five-year policy of the Orbán government discredits the proposal for a resolution while stressing critical comments, it will apply residence while presenting the criticism of the government. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-12-144	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, will be speaking. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must start with, as with the previous two proposals, that Jobbik will be able to support the national biodiversity conservation strategy before us. I'd like to congratulate your creators. I think that the detailed background to the strategy and the preparation of it itself deserve to be congratulated orally. By the way, Jobbik supports all similar initiatives, but we also miss the fact that the government does not miss the resources behind them. I would encourage the government, too, if we are discussing next year's budget soon, then let us look at where we can place, in substance, instruments for implementing this strategy that will be able to implement it through it, and in 2020 we will be able to talk about the fact that a strategy has finally been implemented 90 percent and everyone is pleased. I would like to highlight a few small points on landscape diversity and ecological landscape potential. Here we have to mention the farm development programme, which, I think, could affect the implementation of this point, and we would be very pleased if, let's say, the V. district were not the biggest winner of the farm development programme next year. I think that point would be a step ahead of us, and we could take it more seriously. In my speech after yesterday's agenda, I have just touched on a topic that may be resolved by preserving landscape diversity and ecological landscape potential. Here I mentioned the problem of swallows, which has already been mentioned today, namely that within five years we cannot respect any of the three species in our country if this continues. It could affect that, too. I would also like to mention the genetic resources that form the biological basis of our agriculture. I am pleased that, at least at communication level, this government is putting more emphasis on this area than its predecessors, it is certainly a step forward. At the same time, I have dealt with a number of specific cases in my written questions, which proved that this problem often remains at the level of communication. I am thinking of the issue of the Carpathian skunk, or of the wild carp population in Lake Hévíz, which is all areas that have not received enough attention from the government, even though I have drawn attention to these written questions. I would also like to put these to the attention of the Secretary of State. In the field of forestry, as regards the conservation of biodiversity, we also have something to say. There has previously been opposition concerns that forests should also be seen through a variety of glasses, since they do not represent the same quality in terms of biodiversity at all. It would be good if this could be done by law. Wild game management is also affected by the strategy. We'd be looking forward to the amendment of the hunting law. Since 2010, I have been in Parliament, and since then, practically every six months, one of the State Secretarys has been standing up and telling me that there are only months left and that the new legislation will be passed. In view of this, we would be much more able to interpret this strategy if we knew this, since we have a number of problems and sources of conflict in the field of wildlife management, which is currently unmanaged. I would also urge you to share this with us if you know something concrete about this, because the profession has been waiting for this change for a long time. I have also read the material about fish farming, and it paints a very accurate picture of the situation in Hungary. I know that this is not only the competence of the Hungarian government, and it is not only up to the Hungarian government, but I would like to mention the problem in the Vaskapu area, which has a serious impact on the management of fish. If I say nothing else, it may be worth mentioning here that, if I remember correctly, six specific indigenous species of fish were also involved in the disappearance of the Iron Gate's unprofessional implementation and not taking into account the fish aspects. There have been international negotiations on this too recently. I do not know how these things stand, whether there will be any progress on this, whether there is any way to build a fish staircase, whether there is any information about this with the involvement of European Union funds. This would also make a lot of effort to end this strategy in such a way that it has a happy ending, to meet everyone's needs and to achieve its goal. I've already touched on water management on an earlier subject. I would also like to say here that our country is facing a lot of problems in this area. As I mentioned, it is not normal for the entire country to struggle with drought a few months after the floods of the century. It is worth mentioning the many hundreds of years of well-functioning landscapes that have completely disappeared as a result of modern water management. This is where I think about the management of degrees, which would also help to preserve biodiversity if I were to help spread such land use methods. In the past, there have been a lot of promises in this regard, but in practice nothing has been made of them either. With regard to invasive alien species, I would like to say that it is obviously not just the government's responsibility and problem. Here we need a European cooperation, but I see that the European institutional system reacts very slowly to these deluges, often a decade goes by before the call for help from experts to decision-makers and understand the risks of the emergence of a species. We have seen many times that the appearance of a species of deluge could have been stopped, crowded, controlled at the time of detection or at a time close to it, but by the time it reached the decision-makers, it was multiplied to such an extent that there was so much of an area that we could no longer do with it. Brutal, dramatic data on the extent to which these alien species have spread to molluscs, fish, and crabs in Hungary are exposed, and in addition to crowding out native species, there are many diseases against which indigenous species are unable to defend themselves. I don't want to waste time right now, but Mr. Secretary of State knows that there are plenty of examples here. Government attitudes towards genetically modified organisms should be supported at the level of communication. I believe that there has not been a case before this House that has been so unitedly represented, that every parliamentary faction has stood up for all the legislation relating to genetically modified organisms, from the Fundamental Law to the various proposals for decisions, and has consistently said that we stand for our country to remain free from such modified organisations. However, in the field of human nutrition, food, for example, we are no longer so honest, and I know that there are a lot of problems in how to replace protein crops that come in as genetically modified and feed them to animals, and then, of course, we consume them later. I know that this is not a step that happens overnight, it is not just a decision, but it would be good if this protein strategy existed not only at the level of communication, but also in practice. For species at risk of trade, too, I must say that this is also a pan-European problem. The authorities react quite slowly to how a fashion, a fad, spreads among livestock owners. By the time we realize that the small population is fading, it's often too late. [[18.30]] It would be nice to take them seriously. I recommend, for example, that the authorities look around more often on the most well-known search sites in the country. Now, as a test, I've hit some species on these sites, and I recommend Google, and it wasn't a species that was endangered, protected by trade, or even a category of CITES that didn't have the right permissions, and they were still destined to be sold. But, of course, it is very good that this strategy contains it, and that is not why I brought it up, just to pay attention to these in practice and in implementation, and to give the authorities the necessary resources to fully implement this strategy. I'm not going through all the other points. I thought it was important to mention them now. Once again, I congratulate the makers, and I hope that the government will provide the right source for this strategy to be implemented. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-146	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the LMP Group, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, has made a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, As I read this plan, I wondered if I could actually vote for Fidesz if Fidesz would do what it says sometimes. 'Cause he writes such beautiful things a lot of times that would be supportive. The problem is, he always goes in a different direction than what he wrote. And here I could say the rural strategy and a whole lot of other things when it was completely off course. But this strategy is also very sympathetic, it gives us good directions. In fact, the strategic ambitious objective that is included in this is to be supported. I apologize, and I'd like to correct it: I said that he rarely follows what he promises, he did in land distribution, land grabbing, and stuff like that, so sometimes they kept it, but I was thinking about all the rest. Turning to this strategy, I've been going over the entire file. For my part, I think that a strategy of this kind, which is partly for political purposes, should not be significantly more detailed. He's pretty much handling the situation comprehensively. Let me tell you, up to the first 45 pages, I can almost say there's nothing wrong with that, there's no mistake. In my opinion, it provides a perfectly correct assessment of the situation. I assume that this was done by professionals and not by fidesz, because it gives a real picture of Hungary's natural state, whether the state of forests or problems related to wildlife management. It gives a full picture of the situation of species and habitats of Community importance. Let us say that these results are not very reassuring. If we consider that the conservation status of Community-important habitat types in Hungary is nearly 60 percent unsatisfactory, if the situation of Community-important species is not satisfactory 53 percent, then let's face it, they will certainly try to give a realistic picture. In the same way, I am particularly pleased that the conditions of lawn management and grazing livestock management are treated as a priority, as a separate chapter. Obviously, here too, the extremely negative trend that has taken place since the change of regime is described in a completely factual way. It describes how grazing livestock has been repressed, how the grassland areas in the country have fallen. So I was totally sympathetic to the fact that he tried to give a consistent, real picture in this, too. This is not always the case when the government evaluates its own situation, so it was really welcome. With regard to the forest stock, let me say that when I looked at the proportion of natural forests and natural forests in terms of tree plantations and culture forests, we were once again given a very good assessment of the situation. Let me mention, however, that not so long ago, when we were discussing legislation on the real estate register, Fidesz did not support the amendment in which our group initiated the fact that it was finally time to distinguish trees from forests, and that the biological, ecological forest should also be separated in the land register as regards the cultivation sector. How much it would mean now in the biodiversity strategy if this difference in the cultivation sector were to appear! Using the available scientific background as a data source in the National Wildlife Management Database of St. Stephen's University is worrying about the graphs that are about either the growth of large wild game stocks or the reduction of indigenous small game stocks. These clearly point to the tasks needed in this respect. And then we will reach page 43, where, in international funding, we are talking about greater mainstreaming of biodiversity conservation aspects. I already have a problem here, which is that in previous years, in addition to the many problems of the then government, which you criticized in the MSZP years, there was one thing you did: there was no LIFE programme that did not add the national self to encourage applicants. At the moment, even government candidates must be looking for self-esteem and other sources of funding. However, the aid intensity of this type of EU funds has been significantly reduced. I can give you specific examples of where and in what situations we now had to resolve the level of self-strength differently. So when we are planning this and talking about preserving biodiversity, it would be very important to allocate the right resources to this as well as to the environmental programme. Well, we made it to page 45, and I say that with regard to the assessment of the situation, I could fully agree with the analysis of the situation, and I accepted them in a significant part. And here begins a terribly poorly edited and almost incomprehensible table system, which, in turn, is still professionally eligible. I think it is absolutely good that these 20 points have been formulated in the strategy. But from now on, the rest of the strategic plan is not only inaccessible but also problematic. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar mentioned a minute ago the situation of species endangered by trade, the species covered by the CITES Convention. I do not know if my fellow Member has seen the resources allocated to him by the strategy. Zero, no resources assigned. In point 18, not a single source is assigned. This is the case in the fair sharing of benefits from access to and use of genetic resources and in point 20 in the implementation of biodiversity conservation aspects when providing international resources. For these last three points, there are X's everywhere, from which source they would be implemented, where a single source is not named. We do not know whether this is a lack of government intent or just a table editing problem that needs to be modified. Indeed, this table gives us the most puzzles, in the first part because it does not assign resources to it. So we do not know how you intend to achieve these goals. Obviously, to put it mildly, it's a slip when I name a source, but I don't write down its financial background. The funding table, such as the European Union funds registered as structural funds in Hungary, or even the EAFRD, is managed in the same way as the financing system of the Green Source in Hungary. This is funny because in one case we are talking about hundreds of billions, in the other we are talking about 72 or 90 million HUF. And the indication of these with an equal X does not in any way reflect the background of the resource requirements assigned to the strategy. This is a very big problem, this is the last part of this chapter, because we do not see the objectives set out in point 20, which, as I said, are eligible and welcome by our party, if there really was a government intention to implement them, how they will be financed. How will the budgetary background be put in place to settle these? The financial asset system begins on page 70, so here's what I said about points 18, 19 and 20 that have no resources at all. But in many other ways, I feel that this could be expanded. For example, the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund would have significantly more opportunities to develop knowledge base or to provide information on biodiversity through LEADER, as this was the case in the previous cycle. It would be good to think about these, because if there was a dialogue with the Prime Minister's Office and the Prime Minister's Office with the State Secretary for Rural Development, I think that it would be possible to extend these appropriations so that it can help this strategic objective significantly better. I feel another strategic problem in addition to funding is that Table 4.2 - this is the worst table in the whole, because it identifies the number of objectives from 1 to 20, and then it is always necessary to go back in the strategy to see what these are, and to define the tasks of the Ministry, the Central Territorial Administrations and other bodies. Well, in my opinion, it's completely unthinkable. Obviously, everything is ticked to the Ministry of Agriculture from 1:00 to 20:00, but from then on, it's all starting to fall apart. For example, the Ministry of Human Resources does not have a role in raising awareness and shaping attitudes. Why? Schools don't have forest schools or environmental education, good green days? Why wouldn't he have a job? [[18.40]] Similarly, with the Ministry of Defence, although it is written, but no X is included for any task, so we do not know what his role will be in this, who will deal with the natural values in defence areas. In the same way, it is interesting that, say, in forest wealth management or in some things, national park directorates were completely excluded from the implementation of Titles 8, 10 and 12. This is a protected stage, which in the case of forests, for example, is a specific problem. However, the same problem is that the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development has been designated as an implementing body only under two headings, item 11, 12, even though it can achieve significantly more funding, for example with significantly more tasks from the fourth pillar grants. The biggest problem I see there is that environmental, nature conservation and water inspectorates - which is mentioned in this text - are certainly again not updated before submission, but I do not know what happens at this time, and then, in a month's time, they will bring them back to government offices, or will they remain so, but once again, I accept the reason for being Secretary of State. So, in environmental, nature conservation and water inspectorates, he mentions virtually four titles where he has a role. In all other authorisations, it distracts these items. So there would be a substantial number of tasks and responsibilities for the licensing authority, practically through almost all of its elements. You can't protect biodiversity if building permits or anything belonging to a government agency aren't named here. In the same way - I am going back again to refer back to my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, in relation to, say, trade in endangered species - the role of the police is only marked for this one action, the 18th. The amount of illegal wood cuttings in protected areas, illegal launches in protected species, general nature destruction, general environmental destruction, all of them should have the police and nowhere, and no mention of the same Ministry of Interior! So in these executive tasks this table is not clear, which is a problem because when implementing the strategy, there will be a background to who is responsible, if this does not state exactly who has to carry out these actions. Overall, other than me, we have looked at this in the faction, and we had the impression that we could support and accept this proposal, because in terms of its direction, we believe that it should be supported, but it is certain that, until the final debate or the vote, at least these shortcomings, which are in Table 4.2, which I referred to in the implementation of the institutional instrument system, should be replaced. We would be really happy if the systems that created the background of funding were quantified, because again, we can say the same thing as we said in the national environmental programme that without a background of resources, it does not guarantee that this will contribute to the conservation of biodiversity. I think that those who, as policy makers, are dealing with this in various groups, whether Mr Secretary of State, are aware of the problem we are talking about, so how we are losing species around the world every day, how the biodiversity index is falling across Europe, how we are creating worse indicators for biodiversity in agricultural sites, so if this national strategy is suitable to influence sectoral policies, including, say, this agricultural support system at some level, it will be useful and good. If the intention is to do so as it has been for the past four years or as in the second Orbán Cabinet, then unfortunately this is just paper production and we're wasting each other's time here, because obviously it won't be worth anything. I can once again wish to Mr Secretary of State that there should be a government intention and a proper background for this, and I hope that, in the course of the 2016 budget negotiations, we will see in the budget the planning of the financial resources needed to implement this strategic plan. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2015-05-12-148	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-12-149	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to add one thought to the debate. The question of the size of the Hungarian swallow population has been raised. I confess that I have not heard the speech of my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar after the agenda, and I promise to read it from the minutes. But I would like to tell you that the wintering area of swallows arriving in our country is primarily in Central and South Africa. The use of chemicals there, often large and uncontrolled, causes the loss of the population of swallows in the areas, primarily in the food organisms and consumed by the swallows, to be destroyed. So it is not primarily due to bad weather, desert storms and not to agricultural practices in domestic or other civilised areas, but primarily to the root of the problem in the large and uncontrolled use of chemicals in wintering areas in Africa. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-12-150	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2015-05-12-151	Mr President, Dear House, The need to preserve biodiversity has rightly been raised. In this regard, the page of the Ministry of Rural Development contained the importance of preserving Hungary's GMO-free status when I was a member of the Agricultural Committee in the previous cycle, but since then a new kind of threat has appeared in Hungary. This is called a transatlantic investment agreement, which is not a Hungarian disease, but unfortunately, despite a debate day, we have not been able to reach the Hungarian Parliament until the government declares that it does not request either from this investment agreement or from the gnome-picked garbage that can flood Europe if the US becomes virtually one of the many EU Member States, without any obligation, can pour food products into the entire European market, of which today four types of products emerge from ten studies. It can be seen that European legislation is already being diluted, since in recent years insect-resistant maize and Amflora GM potatoes have been able to achieve essentially facilitations, they have already been authorised to produce, and it is also apparent that the agreement signed with Canada before the Transatlantic Investment Agreement could seriously undermine the rights that guarantee the preservation of the GMO exemption, at least this partial exemption, as, unfortunately, these modified ingredients have already appeared here in the feeding of livestock. Therefore, we clearly expect the government to declare and finally declare that it does not consider the Transatlantic Investment Agreement to be eligible in relation to Hungary and to insist on this position in the future. This is the only way to establish our long-term security. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-152	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am now giving the floor to Members who have applied for a speech in a normal time frame. First, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-12-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A few days ago, I was paying attention to the next scene. I walked or went through one of our inner city squares, and there was a young couple in front of me. Suddenly, they stopped, and one of the members of the couple had his feet on the side, and his feet slowly, comically, trampled on something. I got closer, and then I saw him crush nothing but a rose beetle moving his limbs. The other member of the couple watched the scene indifferently. The rose beetle was burned into the streetstone by the sun. I thought that these young people were certainly not among the 1.4 million ecotourists who met biodiversity in the visitors' centers of our national parks in 2012. In fact, there were no eco-school students, nor were they socialized in forest schools to protect nature. However, I suspect that they were among the people who, without thinking or reason, destroy the good of the living things that come before them, hysterically respond to a bat, hate a frog, fear a snake, chemotox ants, and love the panda bear and deer. There are more lessons to be learned from this case. The first and most important thing is that most people have no respect for the created world, life itself, and without thinking or reason, they destroy most of the living things around them because they see a pest. No wonder, for he sees one engaged in a fierce struggle with nature to bring him to his service. [[18.50]] Man has mastered the habitats of other living things, classified them as good and bad, according to whether they are beautiful or directly useful to them. The good ones can be exploited, the bad ones can be sacrificed for the good of man. This approach is strengthened by the whole functioning and behaviour of the school, society and economy, so it is not to be admired that biodiversity-related thinking will remain ineffective. Rose bugs get trampled, don't they? Unfortunately, people's education on biodiversity is shallow, as it would be a barrier to short-term profit. Even science will remain in debt to reveal the diversity of life, to at least name the species that we killed before we knew them. It is assumed that the number of species currently known and the number of unknowns is 50 times the factor. However, being unknown would be a reason to spare what we do not know yet, since we do not know its role as a whole. How many people in this room or in the whole country know the role of the rose beetle in all of this? The rose beetle is expendable, this species is not protected by nature protection, its victim is not threatened by the ideal value of the law, by animal torture, the case will not be on the front page of the newspaper; only a rose beetle was killed in the open street, the sight will not cause public outrage. Nor does it, when a dozer plows through the body of nature, in a technical sense, an ecosystem, radically destroys the people who live there, it doesn't matter whether it has a protected or defenceless status. The paradox is that nature conservation, if you know, punishes a person who destroys a protected organism, but is helplessly forced to watch a green area for development covered with concrete. Dear Parliament, The strategy before us shows a low level of management of the importance of biodiversity. The protection of biodiversity is only possible within the system of society and the economy, and therefore its dependence on one sector does not reflect the intention of biodiversity policy to shift the whole decision-making process, leaving the strategy with a sectoral partial issue that can be largely identified by the traditional approach and instrumental system of nature conservation, which, unfortunately, has not yet been able to prevent the decline of biodiversity. Subordination is indicated by the fact that the author of the strategy is the Ministry of Agriculture; to put it in a style appropriate to our subject: making decisions entrusted the goat with the cabbage. Indeed, agriculture has a wide relationship with biodiversity in terms of its mode of action, but it is doubtful that the basically economic performance expectation sector should be able to limit itself in order to protect biodiversity. In the strategy, we find certainty of this when discussing the relationship between agricultural and biodiversity. How is it possible that no mention of soil biodiversity is made of soil in a short way, such as the storer of crop production, from the point of view of nutrient supply only. But this year is an international year of soil, and it's not for nothing. The vast majority of Earth's species, about two thirds of them, live in the soil, that is, the majority of biodiversity is linked to the soil. We are not aware of this because this life is not happening in front of our eyes, and micro-organisations, tiny beings, are invisible to our eyes anyway. At the same time, these tiny creatures are responsible for 60-80 percent of the nutrient turnover. In one gram of soil there are approximately one billion low - order living creatures, and the combined mass of living organisms in an area covered by natural vegetation exceeds 15 tons and can reach 35 tons. The number of soil-dwelling minions is likely to exceed one and a half million, of which only a few percent are currently known. The organisms in the soil are essential elements of the soil processes, and organisms are responsible for the relaxation of the soil, the breakdown of the dead organic matter, the provision of circular energy, and the detoxification of the soil. On the other hand, fields are slowly becoming deserts in terms of the number and quantity of wildlife. The soil deprived of organic material covers is exposed to the abrasion of wind and water, soil compaction, dehydration, frost-alterability, and life in it to hunger. Compared to the soils covered with natural vegetation, it is good to have 2-4 tonnes in comparison with the said 13-35 tonnes per hectare. Man reduces the support and regulatory ecosystem service of the soil, which ultimately reduces the supply functions and leads to the destruction of the soil and to low food quality. Talking about sustainable exploitation in the strategy, while the soil is dying significantly faster than it would be renewed, is rather uncredited. There is therefore a need for a large-scale change in technology in agriculture, and Community funds that are still available today should not be used to support short-term profits, but to serve the common good. Dear Parliament, Protection of biodiversity is not a pledge of generosity, but a guarantee of the survival of human life. According to the strategy, international research has estimated the world value of the ecosystem, which is nearly half of the world's annual economic production, to an average of 33 trillion US dollars. But what value would the global economy have if there were no support and regulatory services for ecosystems for just one day? Without them, we'd run out of air in one day, poisoned waters, decaying food plants, eliminating the condition of life. Biodiversity is life itself, and its protection is the protection of life. Human existence is unimaginable without biodiversity. Compared to this large-scale truth, this strategy is unfortunately a weak instrument. It does not have a comprehensive set of instruments capable of effectively embeding the overall aspects of biodiversity protection into different policies. We do not know what, in the absence of such a system, will prevent the further loss of green areas, the fragmentation of habitats, the spread of invasive species, what we expect the improvement of ecosystem services, or why the protagonist of our story will not crush the rose beetle. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-12-154	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-12-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would respond to my colleague Mónika Bartos that, of course, I did not want to pin the disappearance of the swallows on the government, and I know very well that the factors outside our country are the main cause of their disappearance. However, I think we too can do much to slow down this process, not to give it to God, because, for example, we are part of a European community, where, I think, we could put pressure on countries where they are so irresponsiblely using chemicals that are responsible for the destruction of these birds. Back home, the protection of nesting sites or the disappearance of feeding opportunities are all areas where we can do a lot ourselves. I would like to thank my fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, for his comments on the ground. We are very sorry that not only in this strategy, but also in general, even in sectoral laws, we do not see the place in which we can see the way in which we think, by what means the leaders of both the government and Europe would try to stop and reverse this process. Unfortunately, we are not even really aware of the gravity of the problem, which I think is the biggest problem here. But what can we decision-makers or average Hungarian people do to help or complement the strategy? I think that education has a very important role to play, which has already been highlighted by many, and that is definitely up to us, the decision-makers. The allocation of resources on the government; as in previous strategies, the implementation of this strategy depends on how much it will be worth in practice, how much resources we can provide for them. [[19.00]] Thinking is important, both in our own environment and in a narrower and wider sense in our environment. It has a very, very important role to play in how citizens view this, feel, feel as their own, or even in their own environment, in their families, how they try to do so in order to preserve biodiversity. A Hungarian citizen living in a condominium can take such steps, but I would like to give the example of a married family, because I too come from a family house. We can build our garden, our small local farm, to preserve biodiversity even in the heart of the city, whether it is the protection of birds in the winter and summer in the right way, whether it is about creating a small nook for amphibians or reptiles, or creating an ovulating place. They cost almost nothing, and yet they make a small miracle of a few square meters within our garden. For example, I experience with a very sad heart that I know the Szigetköz well, and if I can do so, I spend most of my spare time there that in the last 15 years I have found only one area in the Island, where the swamp turtle has a viable population, so there are also young individuals, and I meet not only some of the older examples of 20 or 30 years of age, but I really see a renewable population every year. There's only one place like this I know myself, and I hope the experts and the people with my experience can list more than that from the Szigetköz. But I could say the same about the meadows of Rábaköz, where the decline of lizards, different lizard species, over the past ten years, only what I myself have experienced is so brutal that it is amazing. So now you can't actually find some species, and let's not talk about quantity, because it's dropped by magnitude, really if I'm just looking at the last ten years. So in all of these, I think that we, citizens, can do it ourselves, and not only must we wait for the government, but certainly the greatest and most important tools are in the hands of the current decision-makers. One more point at the end, since we have talked about so many forward-looking or positive strategies, I would very much like to see the national rural strategy at last before the walls of this House, I think that we also have something to argue about, and it may not seem so at first hearing, but I do think that it is very seriously linked to the strategies that we are discussing today. It would be good to have the courage to bring this to the House, as it was promised in 2010, because I believe that we could debate it in substance through other glasses. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-05-12-156	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-12-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by commenting with Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, raising that point. I have written to myself that it is a literary, polished, beautiful line of thought, and in the meantime, I forgive you for referring to the goat and cabbage in connection with biodiversity, but allow me to try to deny it further. If we want to illustrate the gravity of the situation in the field of environmental affairs, I usually use more France areas of floating garbage. Here, for biodiversity, the current sad series of data in this area is also good for a comparison of swallows, because we all feel it, we see how it disappears from our environment. The WWF has a good set of data or other statistics that say that since 1970, I've looked at this several times to see whether nearly 50 percent of the population, sorry, 50 percent, and larger numbers than wetlands, have disappeared. As unconventional as these figures may be, they are shocking, and allow me to bring here, in this connection, the half-phrase of Congressman Sallai R. Benedek to commend the proposal. This is not always the case when the government evaluates its own situation. It's not about your own situation. So if it is not possible to cut the valuation for four years, then it is certainly true for biodiversity. Anita Heringes considered the 2017 review inappropriate that it was not enough. It is clear that the short-term assessment of changes in natural processes on this subject does not make any sense; this is not possible, it is such a small time frame. In recent years, since 1970, in the case of missing species that have disappeared from our environment, it is interesting that 24 species have been resettled or attempted, and only a quarter of it has been successful. These may include the beaver, although I would add that in the case of the beaver, there is already some concern on the part of the agricultural sector, or rather on the part of the forest farmers, and then on the part of the flood protection, that it is possible that this has been done too well. The successes in these, however, do not forget that the small gamers have really disappeared from the country, and in the other part, according to many people, I think there is a significant surplus in the big game, however. The question of MEP Zoltán Magyar is connected here: the wallet is working on the Hunting Law, but because it affects such a wide range of areas, it is so sensitive and sensitive, we see that this is a matter of time, and of course, if we are done with this work, we will present it to the government and then to the Parliament. The pound was missed by Anita Heringes. Let me just say a few words about this, given the course of the past few years. It's really not appropriate to bring in previous government activities on this agenda, but I would make an exception. I would make an exception because anyone who knows the previous rural development programme can see that, in order to favour large economies in amazing proportions, the kg programme was designed to be predominantly allocated to arable crops, to give them the opportunity, somehow, to put the poison that I put out on the ground, after which I will get what is due. Now, when the program was redesigned, the following had to be taken into account. One is that all the resources for agriculture have indeed increased for the seven years, but rural development, including agri-environmental management, has decreased. Therefore, the government could have done so by continuing to provide the source in an unchanged structure, in an unchanged structure in which we agreed that it should be changed, so that in order to turn the aid towards the grasslands, towards the more sensitive areas, it is impossible to move the declining source further, thus giving even less room for manoeuvre for the next period. So it is quite certain that the same, the same, the same length of time, could not have been sourced, and there was no other option but to carry on the previous incorrect program. So that's why the government is redefining the agri-environment programme. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Born two years ago! Anita Herring:...and that's why no one got it.]] Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned the Free Trade Agreement on GMO. Here again and again we have to say that Hungary is on the side of GMO-free, and we were the first to join the Duna Soya Association. Let me say, however, that we do not think that soy is the fodder plant whose dependence on imports should be removed and replaced by domestic feed. There is a significant genetic reserve at the Plant Diversity Center, and we can prove that it can be used as a fodder plant for about a hundred species. [[19.10]] Congressman Róbert Sallai Benedek resented the Xes in the table. Here in the table, of course, we should name the main drivers of each objective, and obviously other wallets can and should also be involved in the implementation of the project, apart from the wallets, for the whole society. Overall, I thank you for contributing with your questions and comments to the success of this programme, for which, by the way, the energy efficiency operational programme will be included in the next cycle. For the next seven years, we plan to spend HUF 30 billion on habitat development, conservation interventions, the necessary management infrastructure, the presentation of natural values, so we can keep the resources for nature conservation at a level compared to the previous period, when the environmental status has improved on more than 100,000 hectares. We will, of course, also participate in the LIFE programme, and we will ensure domestic co-financing. So let me reassure the ladies and gentlemen of Congress that it is not a question of the government treating nature as some sort of stepmom. After all, the resources, whether within the rural development programme or within both pillars of the common agricultural policy, are unprecedented. When the institutional system is mentioned, I always mention the example of whether today's nature protection would benefit from 10 percent more nature conservation guards or the good situation that the common agricultural policy has created is that 30 percent should be used for greening. I am quite certain that a single Member State would not have taken on its own commitments, which mean either the ecological target area or biodiversity requirements or the maintenance of grasslands. This is a significant change compared to what has already been done, and monitoring and compliance with it is carried out, for example, not by the nature reserve system, but by the Agricultural Rural Development Office itself, which is involved in this activity. In conclusion, let me thank you for both supportive and critical thoughts, and I am sure that if we can continue to discuss these matters in this manner, we will be successful in the coming years. Thank you again for your attention.
u2015-05-12-158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2012 XXX. on the Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums will follow. general discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/4649. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I declare that, as said at last week's meeting of the House Committee, the presentation will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-12-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, XXX of 2012 on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums law states that Hungarian national values, including Hungaricums, are to be preserved and unique values. In order to strengthen cohesion, unity and national consciousness, the values of our nation must be collected, documented, the documentation on which the value protection is based must be kept in accordance with the rules of strict records and researchability, and values must be maintained, protected and supported. Our heritage, the millennia values of Hungarian culture, the spiritual and material creations of Hungarians, the values of man-made and nature must be combined in comprehensive securities depositories; the protection of our national values contributes to the development and consolidation of national identity. The law itself is unique in a sense in the general use of words only called the Hungaricum Law, since we have no information about legislation based on social initiatives from other countries, which is equally broad, comprehensive and basically based on social initiatives. As a result of its uniqueness and novelty, a number of issues have not yet been clarified, and in some cases the practical application has revealed the need for additional rules. The purpose of the bill is to establish clarification provisions that facilitate interpretation of the law. A number of notable topics can be found in the bill, which allow effective implementation of the objectives set out in the preamble to the law. The amendment is grouped around the following major issues. One of the most important provisions is the possibility of creating foreign value collection on a domestic sample. The foreign organizations participating in the Hungarian Permanent Conference may operate foreign national securities depositories for their own country. In addition, foreign governments and legal entities may set up local, municipal and regional security depositories in the event of the support of the organisation invited to the Hungarian Permanent Conference in abroad for their own country. The aim is to support local, municipal and regional value collection and bottom-up initiatives beyond the borders. As a result of the amendment of the Hungaricum Act, the range of persons and organisations proposing to the Magyar Értékár and the Collection of Hungaricums will be brought into line. Proposals may be made by a member of the Hungaricum Committee, by the local-level CSD committees, by ministers operating a sectoral CSD, or by the person or entity who originally submitted them. The tasks of the Hungaricum Committee also need to be reviewed, as the current Hungaricum Act also defines tasks for the Committee which set out objectives that are difficult to achieve in practice. Some of the objectives have run out of purpose, so that their abandonment from the Hungaricum Law has also become timely. The section of the Hungaricum Act defining the tasks of the Hungaricum Committee differentiates between tasks according to the fact that they relate to the outstanding national values and the Hungarian Value Reserve, the Hungaricums and the Hungaricum Collection. In view of the fact that the existing Hungaricum Law is not consistent in this context, the amendment also carries out the organisation of tasks. The amendment will increase the membership of the Hungaricum Committee. Among the members of the Hungaricum Committee there will be a delegation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Ministry of National Development and the Ministry of Defence, since the values of Hungary have foreign, foreign and foreign policy, infocommunication and military traditions. The amendment also includes the prohibition of misuse of the term Hungaricum. The term Hungaricum can be used in the name of legal persons, commercial and catering units, with the consent of the Hungaricum Commission, which aims to ensure that the Hungaricum designation is used by companies and commercial entities engaged in activities in accordance with the provisions of the Hungaricum Act, thereby representing a high quality of national values classified as Hungaricum. [[19.20]] In addition, according to the experience gained in the application of the law, the bill also makes minor changes, clarifies concepts and clarifies terms. The broad presentation of our national values both at home and abroad, its introduction, our linguistic, intellectual, cultural, economic performance, recognition of our natural and built values and the strengthening of the national image is a priority goal. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support and adopt the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-12-160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-12-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungaricum Act was adopted by the National Assembly in April 2012 with a four-party consultation, and our goals started to be realised in the three years since then. The definition of Hungarian national values and the range of Hungaricums has begun, and their documentation, organisation and promotion have been started in order to make them known and preserve them with the current and future generations. Based on the experience of the past three years, the proposal before us clarifies a number of interpretation issues and makes additions to solving the problems that have arisen in the application of the law to date. We would like to highlight a few more important proposals: the amendment aims to give the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Ministry of National Development and the Ministry of Defence the opportunity to delegate members to the Hungaricum Committee, so that all ministries will have the right to be represented in the body. This is important, because Hungarian values have already been included in the national securities depository, which belong to the area of competence of these ministries, and there is a need for this body of the current government to be an active participant in the work on Hungarian values in the future. Another important new regulatory element is the inclusion of a Hungaricum term in the law, a ban on abusive use. It is also in our interest to protect values that natural or legal persons whose activities are not in line with the objectives of the Hungaricum Act should not be allowed to use the term. I would also like to point out that, in order to ensure a more logical and transparent operation, the proposal will bring the range of persons and entities proposing the Hungarian Value Reserve and the Hungaricum Collection in line with the proposal, as well as suggesting that foreign securities depositor regulations should be built up in the same way as domestic depositories. I consider it important to make proposals for fine-tuning the legislation, such as the abandonment of the tasks of the Hungaricum Committee, which create unintelligent demands or are no longer responsible, or the delegation of tasks which have been proven to be unjustified in their legislation. Dear Parliament, The various proposals could still be classified or detailed, but, overall, they point to both practicality and better applicability of the law. These amendments are therefore aimed at improving the system of protection of Hungarian value that has been in operation for three years. I hope that this Parliament will also have great support for the subject and concrete proposals, as the previous one, which adopted the law in 2012. Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2015-05-12-162	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group indicated that the group's position will be presented by two key speakers within a total of 15 minutes' time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bellozó. Here you go, Congressman. [[For signal:]] I see Congressman's indicating there may be some confusion. On the basis of the preliminary announcements, Mr Gábor Harangozó and Mr Zsolt Legény were indicated, if Mr Zsolt wishes to present the group's position alone, of course he has the opportunity to do so within a 15-minute time frame. There you go. You have the floor.
u2015-05-12-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, this is probably an administrative error, and I will explain our position on my own, just because it is a not-so-complicated case, because, as Mr Secretary of State or even Congressman Pócs has said, it is a matter which, by the way, enjoyed a public agreement with the whole Parliament. The Hungarian Socialist Party also supported this initiative and supports the initiative itself now, and we do not have any objections to the amendments either, as they really clarify and clarify detailed rules that move the Hungarian Hungaricum case forward, so there is no problem with that. We consider it very important that this should be a particularly successful initiative, where everyone is reminded of excellence, uniqueness, pride and national pride. That is why we also supported the adoption of the law itself, and that is why we are cooperating partners in improving it. It is also the right idea and the established practice that the law establishes several levels of protection for our values, and it is also an initiative to support this amendment to allow us to introduce some protection into the law where the term Hungaricum was abused. This is about the fact that Hungaricum has a European protection, it has a national trademark type protection, and the use of the term itself is now regulated by the law in such a way that it is not possible for anyone to use the term Hungaricum simply for marketing purposes in a self-abuse manner, but only for those allowed by the Hungaricum Committee. This is all right, and it is also okay for the Hungaricum Committee to be broadened accordingly, as this committee decides, for example, who can use the term Hungaricum itself. But if this is the case and it is a matter that is intended to express and symbolize the size and unity of the nation, and assigns a tool to it, then it is a little incomprehensible to me, even at the time of the adoption in 2012, the opposition resented the fact that the committee is composed of Parliament to delegate two members in total, and after the majority of the government has already evolved as it is now, so that Fidesz-KDNP was in the majority, so the Hungarian Parliament will not be surprised - a Fidesz member and a KDNP member have delegated to the Hungarian Parliament. If, in order to show and embody the unity of the nation properly, this amendment, for example, puts in place the Defence Committee and all the ministries, which, say, will result in ten ministerial representatives sitting in this committee, I do not believe that any majority would be upset if we allowed all parliamentary groups to be represented in this Committee. It is simply a way of ensuring that this unity can actually be realized in its operation, and for example, no one should remember that, let us say, the name Hungaricum is awarded more easily by this committee because of some party affiliation, because there are only people from a party or a party alliance in it, but if all factions are involved, then the transparency and control of this is ensured on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is better to show the unity of the nation, that if we put politicians in it, then we should be able to do so from every parliamentary faction. Accordingly, we have tabled an amendment earlier today, which proposes this. I would also very much ask the Fidesz-KDNP, which makes up the majority of Parliament, to support this proposal, because it is not bad for the cause, but it is good for it, and we can make the otherwise good initiative even better in terms of transparency and political correctness. [[19.30]] In the spirit of this, I can say that if you can be partners in this, then we can continue to support this initiative with a very good heart. If they cannot be partners in this, I cannot quite understand it, because I cannot see any sane, acceptable explanation that, if we have already expanded the Hungaricum Commission with new ministries, then why not do it so that we can also present the parliamentary consensus that already exists in the committee's membership. So, if you can be partners in this, then, of course, we can continue to support the matter and the amendments. Thank you very much, that's all I wanted to add.
u2015-05-12-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Just to clarify: Mr Tamás Harangozó, Deputy Head of the Group, indicated that there would be two rapporteurs on the part of the group - it means nothing but clarification. This information was faxed on the 11th at 2:04 p.m. Thank you very much. [[István Gábor Bellozó: Thank you, Mr President.]] I was forced to report this in defense of my colleagues. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2012 XXX. on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums law was adopted in the previous cycle with the aim of identifying and collecting Hungarian national values, selecting the Hungaricums within them, and allowing them to become more widely known. In the definition of national values and thus of Hungaricums, the law contains a broad concept covering several fields of science, within which eight categories can be separated. In addition to tangible property, a service, such as a protective service, or the intellectual heritage of an intellectual product, such as Count István Széchenyi, may be of national value. Until January 2015, the Hungaricum Commission registered a total of 107 headline national values, of which 42 were declared Hungaricum. In the meantime, in all 19 counties, the CSD committee was established and 486 settlements established it, so far 1351 municipal and 518 county values have been counted. At the same time, the foreign depositor has been enriched with more than a hundred values. Connected to this line this year, the Pest County valuables conference series ended in Cegléd at the end of April. In South Pest County, which includes Cegléd, Nagykőrös and Abony, it is particularly important to maintain traditions and protect our national values. This is an important step in creating an image in Pest County, and we need to be aware of what our settlements think is important, what our settlements think is valuable. The Pest County Value Reserve has 35 values so far, but the new ones are constantly emerging. Such proposals will soon come from Cegléd, such as the Cegléd apricot, the Cegléd kettle, the Reformed Great Church in Cegléd or the unique Dobosgala and Dobmuseum. The Government's bill No 4649 seeks to amend the Act of 2012 on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums with a view to clarifying the legislative provisions. A number of issues have not yet been clarified in the design of the regulation, and in some cases the practical application has revealed the need for additional regulations. The scope and interpretation of each concept has been further refined, as the Secretary of State has said, my fellow Member Pócs mentioned, and only persons and municipalities supported by the organisation of the States participating in the MÁÉRT can create a municipal or regional unit CSD. I think it is important - a number of people have said before me - that the Hungaricum Committee is expanding, and three more ministries can enter this system. I also listened to and heard with a good feeling that a number of things would be removed from the specific tasks of the Hungaricum Committee that had been unintelligent to date, inadequate, out of place. Certain rules have been proven to be unjustified by their statutory regulation, such as the provisions of the Act under the heading Magyar Vértértér, concerning the reporting obligations of individual local level depositories. These provisions would, according to the proposer's intention, be regulated at a lower level in the future. Clarification of the interpretation provisions and the different definitions is an important part of the proposal. In addition, several amendments are aimed at eliminating legislative inconsistencies or improving spelling inaccuracies. In summary, it can be concluded that the amendments are necessary and are justified by the experience gained during the application. We know how much value we have in our hands, our job is to keep these treasures well stewarded, to protect them for the future, because they are the unique identifiers of the Hungarian people. The KDNP faction supports the proposal and encourages my fellow Members to do so. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-05-12-166	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-05-12-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Members, I do not wish to continue the entire debate in the current amendment of the Hungaricum Act, so I would like to say this first. Of course, as we can largely support the original proposal, it also contains technical clarifications that we have been calling for for a long time, and even if the criticisms of the opposition had been taken seriously in the debate on the law, then half of the current amendments would not make sense, since we had already drawn attention to them. What I would like to highlight, however, is the part mentioned by the opposition representatives before me, namely the election of the members of the Hungaricum Committee and who may be members of the Hungaricum Committee. We have problems with this, too, and not because we have any problem with the work of our fellow Member Lezsák or Simicskó, or we have a personal objection to their being members of this committee, and I know that they have been very good at their work, and I know that they have been dealing with such matters before the committee was established, they are certainly deserved in this committee, but we, the bettermen, do not understand that - and we have already submitted this as an amendment to the original debate on the law - why this opportunity cannot be given to the parliamentary factions. This would make no difference to the world, at least in the sense that the government should not have to worry that the opposition can achieve anything against the other members of the committee, so that would not mean such permissions, but perhaps it is clear from my written questions that we are also being approached with a large number of requests from various areas that would affect the work of the committee. Of course, we are forwarding these, and there is a proper way for the committee to know about them and to reach a decision on the matter, but I think that in the system of national cooperation it would be a positive gesture if at least the parties with the factions were given the opportunity to participate in the work with one representative. I do not believe that any ulterior motive can be discovered in this, that it would not entail any extra costs, and yet, as I said, it would be a positive gesture on your part, and on our part, I think it would ensure that this committee is able to operate more transparently, because there have been debates by various organisations that did not approve or would have taken a decision differently. The smoothing of these would also be easier, or indeed, in substance, I think that there would be a representative from each group who could participate in the work of the committee, so even the committee itself would have an easier task, because there is a lot of work to be done, and we can see that. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to consider this, and we are now re-submitting this amendment. In the past, there have been such confusing arguments from the government that they did not support this kind of amendment because it would make the number of the committee uncertain, since the factions could change. Then let us say that there are three pro-government, three opposition representatives, and we can count on a fixed number if this is a problem - although I do not understand why this would be a problem in operation - but we are open to any other solution. [[19.40]] There are also organisations and representatives of Hungarian scientific life whose involvement we would also like to consider useful, and in this connection we will, of course, submit amendments. As far as I'm concerned, the time tomorrow is 16 hours until they have to arrive. As a requirement for a system of national cooperation, I hope that we will be able to take part in this work, because I believe that the Hungaricums are not only the Hungaricum of the government, but also the Hungaricum of the entire Hungarian nation, and all opposition parties, the opposition party with more than one million votes, like ours, I believe that they have the right to participate in such a work, and I ask them to provide the conditions for this. Thank you for this opportunity, Mr President, that is all I wanted to say briefly. I do not see the point in arguing here for other technical amendments. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mr Mihály Hepp, a Croatian ethnic advocate. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2015-05-12-169	Parliament of Štovani Predsjedavajući, Štovani zastupnici Madarskog! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungary's Fundamental Law states in the National Creed that the nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute state-making factors. On the basis of this reference, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and the Parliamentary Act 11. § 1 (paragraph 1) (b) defines as the item on the agenda for the interests and rights of national minorities the XXX of 2012 on Hungarian national values and Hungaricums as the item on the agenda. T/4649. Bill No. 1. Among other things, the preamble to the Act states: . The collection of national values is enriched by the values of the peoples living together in Hungary, the Hungarian nationalities and the individuals and communities living across the borders, who claim to be Hungarians all over the world, as well as the values of the Hungarians and communities living across the world, and the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary held on 11 May 2015 in connection with the amendment of the above law and established its opinion, which I would like to present in my speech. On behalf of the nationalities living in Hungary, we are proud of the extensive and comprehensive register of national values covering all areas that can be considered, established under the Hungaricum Act, which is a unique initiative in the world. The treasures of national values are enriched by the values of the peoples living together in Hungary, the Hungarian national governments and the individuals and communities living across the world who claim to be Hungarians. On the basis of the above, we can say that the Community values of Hungarian nationalities are an integral part of the collection of national values, which is demonstrated by the hundreds of years of cultural, historical and community concentration, which in many cases contributed directly or indirectly to the aging and colorising of our national values. This is no more evident than the numerous items on the current list of Hungaricums and national values, the origins of which can in many cases be traced back to the cultural, community and natural values of the nationalities that are still present in Hungary, and to landscape values that include material or intangible assets related to the landscape and wildlife, which show the historical relationship between a human community, where appropriate, nationality community and the territory. We could also mention the Kalocsa spice pepper in the Collection of Hungaricums, which is also largely the intellectual and gastronomic product of the Croatian nationalities who still live in the area, since a large part of the population of the Croatians, such as Bátya and Dusnok, who are well known for their spice paprika, is involved in the production of this product. On the other hand, the Csaba sausage with Hungarian roots is also worth mentioning, whose original recipe and method of preparation have Slovak ethnic roots. On the other hand, the popular folk tradition of Croatian ethnicity also began as a masked winter-walking practice in Mohács, which resulted in the winter tradition of the Croatian nationalities of Mohács and its neighbourhoods, which became a nationally recognized cultural event, and deserved to be included in the highest-level collection of Hungarian Values. In addition to these, we should also mention the famous Gypsy Orchestra of 100 members worldwide, all members of which are Roma nationalities, so their intellectual and artistic value not only embellishes the Collection of Hungaricums, but also symbolizes the large contribution of Roma nationality to Hungarian culture, with its unique and artistic values in its category. For example, the dance house method can be found in the list of cultural heritage, as a Hungarian model for the transfer of intellectual cultural heritage, which is also based on ethnic foundations, and this method is characteristic of a large part of Hungarian ethnicities. Based on the examples listed above, it is clear that ethnic communities in Hungary, which are currently active, have contributed significantly, directly and indirectly to, and have contributed to, the creation, promotion of Hungarian national values, Hungaricums, and to, and contribute to, them with unquestioningly significant added value. On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to make the following proposal. We are initiating the creation of a national security deposit guaranteeing us that many cultural, gastronomic, historical and community heritage, which is characteristic of our community, will capture value, which would include invaluable values for the particular nationalities in a collection of nationalities, thereby further enriching the diversity of Hungarian culture, recording for future generations. I believe that every ethnic minority in Hungary has unique values at local, regional and national level, which are characteristic of the particular ethnic group, which, in the absence of a collection like the one mentioned, are increasingly forgotten and integrated into the collection of national values as a result of multiculturality. Therefore, in order to maintain nationalities and their culture, it would be vital to establish a national security depositor and a security committee on the basis of the form and operational principle of the existing national security depositor, which would prevent the oblivion of the heritage of national minority communities and significantly contribute to the promotion and recording of our values in cultural, historical, gastronomic and other sectors, and, not least, greatly enhance our reputation, increase our appreciation at national and international level. We would also like to see the Hungaricum Commission expanded with a nationality expert who could be worthy of representing the interests of the 13 ethnic communities. As is typical of Hungarian localities and landscapes, cultural, folk art and gastronomic diversity can be observed within nationalities, as a result of which we can find unique intellectual and material works, both authentic and genuine, that can be presented to the wider public through the creation of this national security deposit box, and preserve them for future generations, thus honoring the cultural and historical legacy of our ancestors. We also consider it essential to collect, document and recognise our linguistic, intellectual, cultural, economic and built values for our nationalities, to preserve, maintain or protect the documents and records on which the protection of value is based, and to help establish that national security depositor. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-12-170	Thank you, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, We now have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Greek speaker Koranis Laucratis. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor. [[19.50]]
u2015-05-12-171	Κύπροςριε Πρόεδρε, κύριε Υφυουργέ, κύριοι βουλευτές ευχαριστώ το λόγο. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Honourable Members, Thank you for the floor. The 2012 XXX on Hungarian National Values Law No. 1 § (g), (j) and (l) determine what can be considered as a Hungaricum, a national value. Regulation (EU) No 114/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the European Regional Development Fund and repealing Council Regulations (EC) No 1083/2006 and (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 81). Government Regulation 1. §2 of the Act describes the nature of the type of value that may be initiated among the Hungarian national values and the Hungaricums. Article 1 § (c) describes the category of the built environment. In this connection, I would like to mention the village of Beloiannis, which was built in the 1950s with the dedicated, powerful help of the Hungarian people to create a home for refugees of the Greek Civil War, but not just a home, but also to satisfy all the needs of a nursery, kindergarten, school, cultural institution and a unique Orthodox church of the Greek Byzantine type. I recommend registering the village of Beloiannis as a national value, where, to this day, the people of dual identity show to the world that the Hungarian people are inclusive and can live with the people they receive. I thought it was important to mention this because Hungary has recently suffered a lot of criticism and criticism of its refugee policy. Please accept my proposal. Thank you. Ευχαριστώ.
u2015-05-12-172	Thank you, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-12-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to thank you for the fact that, as in the adoption of the Hungaricum Act, it seems that there is a common understanding between us in the case of Hungaricum. I would like to thank you very much for all of you for understanding the substance of the law, because this is not about creating a new trade mark system that would replace either the EU trade mark system, geographical indications, the system of trademarks in origin protection and trade, but this is another dimension, another field of our values. It is not only important for the elements at the Hungaricum or other level of the value pyramid to be valuable, but also lovable; because our goal was to be an identity-creating, strengthening force, either at the municipal level, at the level of the landscape unit, at the county level, and obviously also at the national level. In this category, in this joint cooperation, of course, we included, we also felt the nationalities, as they enrich the range of Hungaricums, Hungary's values, and the outstanding products in the national securities depository, either by working together with them, or by creating an independent intellectual, cultural or material product. The proposals presented here will, of course, be considered. One of the conditions for the functioning of the Hungaricum Committee is to be a competent expert in all areas. This is how the representatives of the wallets who have not yet participated in this work were included, as it is clear that the Ministry of National Development may be there, for example, in connection with a technology, process or construction related to transport, or the Ministry of Defence, because of the Hussar tradition. But the other limit to such a body is to be operational. So it is also important that decisions can be made. I, a member of the Hungaricum Committee, see how thorough work must be done in order for decisions to be made in large unity, almost unanimously, but, of course, each one has a debate. There is a debate, and these debates never take place along the lines of party affiliation, there is no way to discover what kind of party sympathy the members of the committee, represented either by Hungarians from across borders, or by experts, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences or other bodies carry. We will consider these proposals and, if we develop our opinions, we will obviously bring them to the attention of the House and the relevant committees. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-12-174	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-meeting speech: . We demand that the protection of the land should not be unfairly imposed on anyone with its title. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-12-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It could have been the address of my speech on how many more victims the MVH would have had. I'm glad Mr. Secretary of State is still here. After all, if someone asked me which department was most involved in the operation of domestic agriculture with negative effects, my answer would clearly fall on the institution of MVH. In recent years, there have been countless cases in which the press and the farming community have been loud with the excesses of the agricultural peak organ. The fact that the MVH is unable to fulfill some of its tasks to the satisfaction of farmers, to comply with the deadlines, of course, does not give many people a good feeling, but there is no need to be surprised. But I think that if we live up to the history of specific calls for proposals, then perhaps it will become more understandable what I mean by that. The National, Agricultural Advisory, Training and Rural Development Institute launched a tender for the establishment of innovative technologies plants in 2013 with the aim of enabling the winners to present the identity of individual agricultural technologies to the original producers and other farmers for two semesters in 2014. Based on professional scores, NAKVI selected the winners, which were notified even in 2013. The MVH decisions should then have arrived before the start of the programme. The first half-year programme could in principle be started by the winners from 1 January 2014, but in the absence of the MVH decision, it was decided either to start the planned demonstration programmes without a decision on their own responsibility and to risk pre-financing the 25,000 HUF cost per programme and student, or to wait for the decision and slip out of time. Finally, the MVH rewritten the calendar and announced in June that the first half-year programme could be held between July and August, just when farmers were known to be busy working in the field. But even then, they did not receive a decision, but only at some point in the month of September-October, i.e. nine to ten months late. During this time, the MVH changed the conditions several times in a communication. This, of course, was a profound downpour of enthusiasm, since these conditions could no longer be accepted by the organizers of the plants or universities to be presented, or changed at a level that could not be followed. [[20.00]] Ongoing changes and uncertainty have led in many cases to rejection of payment requests and subsequent appeals. However, since the MVH has transferred rural development issues to the Prime Minister's Office, chaos has become even greater, and the Prime Minister is apparently unable to cope with the large number of professional cases he has brought in, which is well shown by the fact that there are appeals lodged five months ago without the slightest response. But the approved first semester 2014 programmes have not yet been paid. Another measure which puts farmers in a very difficult position, which indicates the incorrect practice of the Land Traffic Act in this area, is exclusion from lease applications with land protection fines. Of course, there is a basis for measures, since if a farmer does not estimate the land received from the State and does not use it for the intended purposes, then he should not be able to make any further tenders. On the other hand, there are cases, not even a dozen of them, where farmers are almost unduly excluded from the system. After all, the MVH's CSIs are now ruling out farmers who have been living and supporting their families for 30-40 years, their only source of income, and they have settled down for this. I believe that there is a need to comply with management discipline, but it is important that we always adhere to the principle of proportionality. Because if a farmer makes a mistake and admits to paying the few tens of thousands of forints of penalties, which basically recognizes his guilt, so he loses his right to appeal, he will correct his mistake at the given time, and I'm not sure that he should be subjected to exclusion from tenders. For many of them, this is their only source of income and thus risk the livelihood of the family. In many cases this happens because of a stray ball or similar caliber cases. I believe that the principle of proportionality should be respected in such cases. Of course, the MVH's above all position currently rewrites such written and unwritten rules, making the top organ an ugly body in the eyes of the host society. In the eyes of a layer that does its job with humility and best knowledge. I hope that this practice will change and that the MVH will work more for farmers in the future. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-176	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-12-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Obviously, one of the two cases raised in his speech after the agenda belongs to the Prime Minister's Office, but this does not prevent me from giving some thought to him. The first is, obviously, that we will have it investigated in concrete knowledge of the case, and you will receive the answer in writing. In recent years, I have listened to a number of similar cases, read through them, watched them, and these experiences encourage caution. Each one must know the details and then form an opinion. Of course, the MVH can be criticized, I have done this for four years, but let me protect them now in the sense that I have seen not only when the client criticizes them, and a procedure seems to be incredibly complicated to them, although we have done everything we can to alleviate this, but I have also seen when the European Union audit arrives. The European Union's procedure is as complicated as the sky is blue and grass is green. Of course, this burden can be removed by an organisation from the shoulders of the applicant, the farmer, whether the Chamber or other interest representatives do so, but at the point where the European Union is to be accounted for, it is incredibly complicated, not just here in the European Union. The second question of how strict or how not to control farmers is, in many cases this is not a freely chosen category either. Hungary has been punished for not being strict enough in its sanctioning system. If the control system finds more errors, so to speak, not retaliated, it raises the control rate, throws the even greater burden on the same organisation, causing more farmers to be inconvenienced by the tests. I said all these things in general, which, of course, does not mean that, in the case at hand, either you or the complainant are wrong. For the sake of simplicity, please come to me with both cases, and I will pass them on to you where this answer can be obtained correctly. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-12-178	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Farkas, Jobbik Group also applied for an after-the-date speech: How long do Hungarians from the Highlands have to wait for compensation? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-12-179	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I would like to draw the attention of the government and my fellow Members to a problem that is solved by the old debt of the current Hungarian government. A few weeks after World War II, it was the Memorial Day of Hungarians in the Highlands driven by tens of thousands from their homeland. The creation of the Memorial Day was, of course, supported by Jobbik, but we continue to believe that, in addition to symbolic actions, it would be necessary to compensate our fellow countrymen who were displaced by violence and threats. In addition to a property law treaty of 1964, where only a fraction of those displaced received some reimbursement, they were not compensated. Even though they have suffered amazing sufferings, they will not be compensated. In 1947-48 Hungarians were mainly displaced from the larger villages and towns of the highlands, mostly from the more efficient ones, but many of the poorer peasants were taken on trains. The main purpose of the installations was to break down the Hungarian block in the south-highlands. There were some who had only a few hours to gather some packages knowing that they might never see their homeland again. Many families were torn apart and installed at different parts of the country. According to Jobbik, the restoration would be primarily the task of the Slovak State, but they are not even willing to repeal the Beneš Decree declaring Hungarians to be a collective criminal, so we cannot expect, for the time being, any kind of financial benefit to the victims. Of course, this does not mean that Hungary should renounce its subsequent enforcement of its claim. My hometown, Kecel's neighbourhood, is also heavily affected, as the neighboring Imperial Loading and Boats population, where a significant German community still lives, also suffered a great deal as a result of the inhumane treaty. In the two settlements, Hungarians from the highlands were brought to the place of the displaced Swabian population, who have not yet been properly compensated. In this way 248 families, or 914 people, arrived on the Boat, and 139 families arrived on the Emperor's charge with the number 599. Many of them still retain their identity, for which the Cultural Association of Hajósi Felvidék and the Cultural Association of the Imperial Loading Association are also active. I had the opportunity to talk to a gentleman who was only two years old when his family was deported at last week's boarding hours. My former colleague, Dr. Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, asked me about the government's plans for compensation last February. At that time, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári replied that many kinds of calculations have been made, there are several models for compensation. At the same time, instead of making a concrete promise, he was only able to trust that any of these could be supported financially if the country's economic capacity allowed it to do so. This is what has been going on in recent years, that Hungary is performing better. I would therefore like to ask what steps the government has taken since then in order to make amends, whether they are fulfilling their moral duty. I am aware that the calculation and assessment of redemption is a difficult task. In his reply last year, the Secretary of State also referred to incomplete documentation. [[20.10]] In my opinion, however, this is more of an excuse and averting responsibility on the part of the government, because the truth is that a lot of people have probative documents about what happened to them. I therefore ask the government, as it does every year for other groups that have been persecuted, to make efforts to compensate the Hungarians who have driven away from their homes. Jobbik also calls on the Government of Hungary to act more decisively than the EU institutions in the interests of our fellow countrymen. Put pressure on Slovakia to finally repeal the provisions of human rights, the general principles of international law, the principles of discrimination and the inviolability of property. Although there is no one on the part of the government now, even though they knew in advance what subject I would be speaking on, I hope this does not reflect the government's attitude towards the matter. I hope that, on the one hand, this unfair situation will finally be resolved after nearly seventy years, and on the other hand, we will soon be out of the scope of the decrees that stigmatize hundreds of thousands of our countrymen in the Highlands. I ask the government to take the necessary steps for both cases. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-12-180	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 8:11 p.m.]]
