u2015-10-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 9th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech on behalf of the Government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Modern migration is the most serious challenge in the history of the European Union, and this remains the same until the European Union can regain its ability to control its own borders. This remains the same as long as five to ten thousand immigrants enter the European Union uncontrolled daily. Europe must be protected from the flood of immigrants. We must protect Europe, protect Europe's security, protect our common values and protect our common rules. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary has proven that this is possible, but it is possible to stop modern migration. And Hungary has also proved that it is possible to solve the remaining complex and complex border police tasks, and this requires two things: intention, will, and cooperation. Hungary defends its southern border at the head of the Visegrád Four, and today I can report to the Parliament that the influx of illegal immigrants on the southern border of Hungary has now ceased. So we protected Hungary from this danger and protected the Hungarian people. Thank you for all the police and soldiers I could not have done all this report here today in Parliament without your hard-pressed and sacrificed work. And thanks to our Visegrád partners, we also thank Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland, because together we have proved that we can protect Hungary's southern border, we can protect the external border of the European Union and the Schengen zone, and from then on there is no acceptable explanation, there is no reasonable excuse why 28 of us cannot defend the external border of Greece, that is, why we could not use the best solution, why we had to reach the second best solution. Ladies and gentlemen, This danger has therefore been removed, which is coming from the south, but here is another danger of modern migration, but this is peeking at us from the west, in the form of compulsory immigration quotas. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union intends to introduce a compulsory admission quota. In Hungarian, who are now allowed into the territory of the European Union by breaking European rules, uncontrolled, they want to redistribute these immigrants, including to countries that are making serious efforts to comply with all European Union rules. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary does not accept or accept the compulsory admission quota. And the reason we do not accept this quota is not only because, at the five-party conciliation with the Prime Minister, the parties have made it clear that they themselves do not support such a binding mechanism; we do not accept it not only because, in our view, they have taken this decision in breach of European law; we do not accept it not only because they have taken Member States' rights when this decision was made; and we cannot accept this system because it is against the will of European political leaders. We cannot accept it either because the Hungarian people expressed a clear opinion at the national consultation, and the position expressed at the national consultation does not match a mandatory immigrant admission quota. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The task is therefore clear: we must defend our national sovereignty and protect and restore European legality. We must protect Hungary, protect the Hungarian people from another threat to the immigration wave, which comes from the west and is called a mandatory quota. We believe that it is in the interest not only of Hungary, but of the European Union as a whole, to ensure that this regulation does not remain in force at all. For this reason, the government is examining possible steps that it can take on the European scene against the mandatory quota. We will also agree with our Visegrád partners, the government will bring its proposal to Parliament, we will ask for the decision of the Parliament, and we will act on the authority of the Parliament on the European scene against this new threat. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-2	Thank you, Minister. I will ask the political groups if they wish to speak in a two-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] Yeah. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, May Other be Politics.
u2015-10-19-3	Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thank you for your report, as you have said, but I would also refer you back to a previous speech that we heard from Prime Minister not so long ago, and we learned that the Hungarian Government wants to deal with the problem first and then, sometime later, he is willing to think about the solution. It seems to me that people who do not feel sufficiently prepared to think about real solutions speak that way. Dear Minister, This is a situation in which Europe is in place, in which non-comprehensive solutions will not work. I could put it this way that the time for additional actions is over. I think that if you continue to do so, there will still be relatively many different members of the government standing before Parliament and the country and explaining their certificate as to why we cannot get out of this pothole. It is true that the quota, as such, is not a solution in itself, but I want you to know that neither is the fence. In fact, the Hungarian government has been able to present nothing but a fence in recent months of crisis. This is obviously an absurd situation. Think about it, if everyone in Europe copied the solution of the Hungarian government, what the European Community would look like. There would be fences between us across borders, but - and that's the point - the problem would remain the same. Therefore, the replacement actions will not work, but if we want to talk about solutions - and we are definitely partners in this - three fundamentals need to be clarified. One is that there will be no European solution if the Member States say no to everything. There is a need for cooperation, as Minister said, but it is not enough to say that we have to do it. The second groundwork is what the LMP expects of the European Union, including the Hungarian Government, as you are entranced to the negotiating tables, is to provide real solutions that are developed, well-founded and sensitive to the different load-bearing capabilities of the countries. It's also a fact that it's never been born like this before. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, One more request for you. Hungary has a long-term interest in talking to our neighbouring countries in a civilised way. Please take this advice. [[13.10]]
u2015-10-19-4	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Bertalan Tóth, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-10-19-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The double speech, the peacock dance they have been doing over the past period, is also apparent from your report, as it talks about the need to protect Europe, protect European values and stop the wave of refugees that is affecting Hungary. You yourself pointed out that by closing the Hungarian border, this problem has not been resolved, and that it presents further problems for Hungary. I'm asking you to stop this double speech. The point was to challenge the adoption of the mandatory quota, which was adopted by the Council of Home Affairs of the European Union, and it was said that we will be discussing it here, in front of Parliament, but this proposal is not on the agenda. The permanent distribution mechanism is being attacked on the grounds of national sovereignty, while there are Slovak, Polish and Czech police and soldiers in Hungary, and you demand that the European forces and border protection should enter Greece and preserve the borders of the European Union, while it also affects Greece's national sovereignty. Orbán said that a nation-state solution is needed in an Austrian or German daily today, while they are talking about a European solution. Finally, it should be decided that there is a need for a common European solution, which is the proposal of the MSZP. Indeed, the mandatory distribution mechanism and quota can only be the end of something, so it is not a solution in itself, but in this connection we do not get an answer to what happens if Dublin III - which is also the subject of this permanent distribution mechanism - is about amending this regulation - if Hungary does not do so, then what happens to the 176 thousand registered asylum applicants who are registered here in Hungary. Because Dublin III. It's still in effect, that's the danger. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And we don't get an answer to that. Please answer these questions later. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-19-6	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Péter Harrach, leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-10-19-7	Mr President, Dear House, The KDNP's opinion on the situation and the solution is briefly as follows. We need to exercise double responsibility to distinguish between refugees and immigrants. Immigrants need self-defense. And let us immediately ask: why does this self-defense reflex not work in the EU's leaders? Obviously, the attitude, the spirituality of which the representatives have failed. Faith in a multicultural society that can integrate masses has failed. There is a multicultural society, but this is done with the participation of individuals who respect the standards of the host country and not want to introduce a new culture that is completely alien to it. Therefore, the situation that Western European leadership today accepts results in the Islamicisation of Western Europe being a complete fact. This is what we need to protect Central Europe from. This is what the Hungarian Government is doing today, and therefore this solution, which has been implemented so far with the protection of the border and, of course, with the exercise of humane behaviour, we support and continue to ask for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-8	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker is Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, Jobbik.
u2015-10-19-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, I am pleased to hear what you have just said about the quota system, but before I explain this further, let us make it clear to everyone here once and for all that the leading powers of the European Union are, I would say, that the dilettantism and impotentness of the Western European community and political thinking on this issue is not a better indication that they are talking about a quota system that they are discussing the placement of 120 to 160 thousand illegal immigrants, but we know precisely that by far more than half a million illegal immigrants have arrived in this country. So the maximum right to fear is what will happen to the nearly 400 to 500 thousand people who are already in the various Member States of the European Union. Here, however, the government must make its actual position plain and correct public. It does not work, although I very much like the fact that the Minister strongly rejects the quota system on behalf of the government. This is what we propose to each political party, but Zsolt Németh, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has said and stated on several forums, that if the European Union proposes this, we are obliged to accept it. I call on the Government and everyone to either refer to the European Court of Justice or to initiate a referendum at European level, but let us not give in to this practice. And it would also be practical and helpful, and once again in full awareness of our responsibility, let us say that this is not only a pan-European, but also a national issue, and it would be good if the left also made it clear to all its parties what their actual position on the quota system is, because it will threaten us in the next period, and it would be very lucky if this issue did not degrade to party policy. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] but, as a whole, as a national issue, everyone would clearly reject the quota system for the safety of Hungarian society, Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-10	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is President Zsolt Németh.
u2015-10-19-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to emphasise once again, as we have done several times, that, in addition to the humanity aspect, Hungarian society must listen more closely to the common sense of Hungarian politics in the present situation. Hungary protects Hungary's southern borders and protects Europe's southern borders. Thank you to the Hungarian Government for its initiative, the Hungarian law enforcement agencies, and indeed the law enforcement agencies involved in the cooperation in Visegrad. The protection of the external border has become a priority of the European Council last week, as we have heard. This is also an outstanding result of Hungarian diplomacy. It is also that, today, Chancellor Merkel is negotiating with Turkey in Ankara, and we trust that the Turkish agreement will also bring about a financing agreement aimed at financing refugee camps in Turkey, and that a political solution to the Syrian crisis will begin. As far as the quota is concerned, I would like to reassure my fellow Member, Mr Mirkóczki, and the compulsory quota system is not a solution, according to the Hungarian government. The process of pushing down the throats of the Central European countries is the main problem with the mandatory quota, and the European Union's division is also the result of the European Commission's attempt to push down this binding quota solution. [[13.20]] I would also like to draw your attention to the agreement that on 2 November the issue of compulsory quota will be on the agenda in the Hungarian Parliament. The yellow flat procedure has started, and the European Affairs Committee will discuss it this week. And there is also a positive proposal for the quota to the Government of Hungary, and this is the proposal for the world quota. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-12	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP. The title of his speech: "The need for systemic changes is to eliminate the poverty of workers." You have the floor.
u2015-10-19-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Saturday was the World Day against Poverty. Today, the world is divided into few rich and many poor. The chasms go down year after year. The process is clearly based on the neoliberal economic model that serves the interests of multinational companies, as opposed to working people. The same is true in Hungary. Fidesz, contrary to its earlier promise, has not sided with the people, but has sunk our country into a assembly country, where it has made cheap and vulnerable workers the key to competitiveness. In terms of poverty and inequality indicators, we have never been good, but the situation has deteriorated dramatically as a result of the spill-over of the 2008 economic crisis and the dead end policy of the former and the Fidesz-KDNP governments. In Hungary, poverty is increasing, social inequalities are increasing, social scissors are opening. This process is now on a dangerous scale, undermining the country's ability to recover. According to official statistics, one and a half million people live in poverty, but there are nearly four million people who are forced to live on income below the minimum living age. Poverty is not an isolated problem; it is increasingly spreading to the middle class, to a large number of working, tax-paying people. More and more people don't come out of their paychecks, they live from one month to the next. Nearly half of the taxpayers make more than two million people under the minimum living. The economic and social model that the government is following has simply failed. The downward wage competition, increasing the vulnerability of workers, and restrictions in human areas are serious errors. The government favours multinational companies, large investors, but it is not in the interest of society and the economy as a whole. It is impossible to build a successful country on assembly plants, low added value work. The consequences are known: accelerating poverty, increasing inequalities and ultimately mass migration. The situation has changed to the extent that the government has recently acted as if it wanted to tackle the problem of workers' poverty. But what we're seeing is only symptomatic treatment, not the root of the problem. An example is the extension of the family tax allowance, the family home-building discount and the free school meals. Due to the nature of the family tax relief, it only reaches the workers, and it helps the higher earners in particular. In addition to tax relief, the amount of other family policy support, such as child benefit or family allowance, has not increased by a penny since 2008, even though these are benefits for all families with children. With the family home creation discount, it is possible to use millions of dollars, without significant self-esteem and high income, it is still impossible to obtain housing in Hungary. Cradle and kindergarten meals for the needy and large families have been free. Despite the expansion, the food of the needy remains unsolved outside school time. During summer holidays, although the social summer meal programme works, children who are in need - we are talking about more than half a million children - reach only a quarter to a fifth. Other school holidays or weekends are still unsolved for daily meals. The LMP calls for systemic solutions to poverty, to halt the growth of inequalities, and to tackle workers' poverty. For the most vulnerable, the minimum income to replace the current relief system should be introduced. This is not the unconditional basic income, but it would provide a minimum social security for all those who lack social security. Over and over again, we recommend to the government that LMP's previous proposals to tackle workers' poverty: to reduce labour burden, to restore the multi-key tax system, to increase minimum minimum wage levels, to extend family allowance and family tax relief to the age of 24 in higher education, to introduce wage increases and career models in the public sector, to reduce the burden on start-ups with low incomes, and to reduce the VAT on basic locally produced foods. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-19-14	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-10-19-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Towards the end, at about 4 minutes and 10 seconds, she came out of the bag, because she betrayed herself with a half sentence when she said - as was written in their electoral programme - that LMP was preparing for a personal income tax increase, as you called it a multi-key tax, but that would actually mean a personal income tax increase, which is the systemic solution to low incomes for LMP. It is quite a unique solution that a party wishes to take a tax increase against low incomes. I don't remember exactly whether the LMP proposal had the highest tax rate of 41 percent or 51 percent in the election campaign. I don't know if you can recall your own party program from a year and a half ago. Fidesz-KDNP, on the other hand, introduced a proportionate single-key tax rate, which now amounts to 16 percent and will be even smaller next year, 15 percent. You didn't support any personal income tax cuts. Here in Parliament, they speak that people should make more money, and when tax cuts can leave more money than people, they press the "no" button. I think you would not be a systemic solution, but a systemic problem by trying to move forward with tax increases. It was a strange accusation from the congresswoman that she accused this government of supporting multinational companies. There will be no longer an international company that would not have brought an action against Hungary in Brussels, because we have made sure that their additional payments - with bank taxes, special sectoral taxes, insurance companies or special taxes on trade chains - are able to keep more money than families. That's how we were able to introduce the family-type taxation system, and that's how we were able to reduce personal income tax. Because what citizens paid from their wages six to eight years ago, these large companies now pay from their own profits, leaving more money in Hungary. This is why people's wage conditions have been improved, which is why the Hungarian wage level has doubled in the last five years compared to GDP. So as GDP grew, wages in Hungary increased twice as much. Thus, the average wage rose from HUF 202 525 to HUF 243 217, while inflation essentially ceased. The average wage grew from 200,000 to almost 250,000 forints. Madam Member, I am not the one who contradicts you, but the numbers and the data. So don't accuse us, honourable Member, that we, in whatever form, are in the interest of multinational companies. To this end, I think that the Brussels filing stamp is the best example and counterexample. How the number of workers at risk of poverty has evolved is then a very important issue that you have raised. Let's look at how this has evolved in the EU as a whole: 8.1 percent in 2006, 8.4 percent in 2009, 8.9 percent in 2013 and 9.6 percent in 2014. So he's up from 8.1 percent to 9.6%. And what data do we see in Hungary? From 2013 to 2014, it decreased from 6.6 per cent to 6.4 per cent. These are Eurostat data, so she would certainly refer to it. We have decreased from 6.6 to 6.4 percent, while in the EU it has increased from 8.1 to 9.6%. Hungary has been able to reduce workers' poverty according to Eurostat data, while the proportion of people working in the European Union has increased, and yet they have to live in poverty. Because we chose a policy of tax cuts, while the Western European countries responded with tax increases to the crisis. This is why, according to Eurostat, this ratio has become better in Hungary than everywhere else. [[13.30]] You brought up the family tax relief. You know, Madam President, that from 1 January 2014, when we extended family-type tax incentives to contributions, families with three and more children have been able to make more use of this benefit, they had more money than before when we introduced the possibility of family-type taxation in 2011-2012. In addition, the family's home-building discount and the CSOK provide an opportunity for all families, with a grant of up to HUF 3 million, to buy their own apartment, not just to build a new one, but to buy their own one, which has not been used for years. As for the children's meals during the summer break, you also mentioned this, Congresswoman, as you know, this summer we made a record in several respects, since we spent 3 billion forints on children's summer social meals, which is 400 million more than last year, and more than ever spent by a government after the change of regime on a break meal. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-19-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Lajos Korózs, from the MSZP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-17	Dear House, Fellow Members! It was at the end of the week, as my fellow Member mentioned, the World Day against Poverty. All parliamentary parties remembered this in some way, except for the governing parties. They were only able to respond counter-reactions to the press that the socialists, among other things, had done. And I find it a shame that, for the second year today, the Central Statistical Office has not published or published any studies on poverty, segregation, social exclusion or deprivation at the end of September, beginning of October. It's an outrage, please. It is also a shame that, in the summer of this year, they announced that they would not publish their minimum living research from next year. However, there are some civil society organisations or scientific workshops that are very serious about poverty. Allow me, fellow Members, to bring some data here to the Parliament. According to a study published two weeks ago by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, 75% of Hungarian households have some degree of difficulty in covering their usual expenses. This means, my fellow Members, that these households cannot finance a larger amount of expenditure, because they cannot solve a boiler change, they cannot solve a roof renovation. This study says that in the municipalities this ratio reaches 90 percent, and in small settlements, in the north-east-Hungarian region, in the northern region and in the northern lowland region it reaches 95 percent. What's this about? It is about, my fellow Members, that there are about a thousand households in a 3,000 enthusiastic settlements, and 990 out of the thousand households are unable to finance a more serious expense. He cannot save 100,000 forints to finance an extraordinary expense. Fellow Members! In this study, 38 percent of respondents have some kind of deprived indicator - those households are called sociology deprived, where at least three indicators are lacking in a family - and 21 percent live in massively disadvantaged, severe material deprivation. Fellow Members! In this study it is also stated that 67 percent of society cannot afford to go on vacation for at least a week. And hold on: 25 percent and a quarter of Hungarian society cannot afford to eat meat every two days, or to have enough food for a vegetarian. It seems, fellow Members, that this government cannot govern - it can incite. But I would like to advance one thing: poverty cannot be fought by wire fences, it cannot be protected by wire fences against vulnerability. Dear fellow Members, Although I have an outrageous opinion on the Central Statistical Office and its President, yes, Madam Secretary of State, it is worth taking some of your studies. What we see is that the workers in this country are also living in an awful lot of poverty. Not so long ago, the incomes of the small regions were published, and it turns out that in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county the average net salary of a patient-bearer is 75 thousand forints, the income of the catering chefs in Borsod County is 83 thousand forints, and in Békés County a nurse does not make more than 80,000 forints for three shifts, and a stonemason who does very hard physical work does not earn more than 95 thousand forints. I dare not mention that these figures are even worse in the county of Nógrád. With regard to small areas, the Bodrogköz is the annual net income per resident, hold on to 394 thousand forints, which comes out to a monthly average of 32 900 forints. Tell me, fellow Members, how do you make a living with this money? Socialists are on the side of working people, and therefore we demand a raise not only in the public sector but also now in the competition sector. If the multinational Auchan can afford to make 10 percent wage development on 1 January of the following year, then I am of the opinion that every company in the Hungarian competition sector must do this wage increase, at least this wage increase. And we still demand that the public sector employees raise their wages, which we have done several times before the Parliament, because they are building the country, protecting the country. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-19-18	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-10-19-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, allow me to bring up the few contradictions that you said at the beginning of your speech. You said that the Central Statistical Office did not publish statistics on people at risk of poverty and then quoted these data. He was able to quote it because, last November, KSH published these data, and, of course, it will also be published in November this year, I imagine, as it did last year. Since he did it last year, that's why you were able to quote it. So he went against himself in 30 seconds. He pointed out, for example, that according to this research by KSH, how many people on the Hungarian side cannot go on a one-week holiday a year. The only thing he forgot was to compare the current number from 2013-2014 with the number that was in the previous years. Because it can be said that 59,6 percent of the population could not go on a week's holiday, but a few years ago that was 66,6 percent. 700,000 more people couldn't afford to go on vacation years ago than they are now. Or the lack of meat consumption every two days - because you have just said that about a quarter of people can't afford to eat meat every two days. How much was that four years ago? A third of them couldn't afford it. From 33 percent down to 27.2%, 580,000 more people can afford to eat meat food now than before, when the effects of socialist governance felt better. And may I say, Your Honour, you didn't take the rest out. For example, the lack of proper heating of the apartment now causes problems and problems for 250,000 people less. This is why, in recent days, the news has also come out that, thanks to the policy of reducing the rent, the amount of debts has decreased from HUF 143 billion to HUF 77 billion. The amount of the overhead debt has been reduced by half. Nor did you mention, honourable Member, that, on the same question, that someone does not have a car for financial reasons, 70 thousand fewer people have said that they cannot afford to have a car for financial reasons. Or the number of people who had problems with credit or housing, according to last year's data, was 130,000 smaller. So it was 130,000 more people who said that they could afford, to be precise, now they can farm out their loans or their payment details for the apartment. Congressman! You can take some numbers, but you can compare them to the socialist period, and not just toss a number, but admit that it is 700 thousand or 580 thousand, or 250 thousand more than during socialist governance. I think that if we went back to socialist governance, these numbers would go wrong again, and that is why it is worth moving forward with Fidesz-KDNP. But if you look at how much more people work, because obviously those who do not have jobs are most at risk of poverty, the number of people employed here too, remember, since the first quarter of 2010, it has increased by 445 700. [[13.40]] Instead of 3 million 709,000 people, 4 million 155,000 people now work. And as I have suggested before the other opposition agenda, these people are making a lot more money, since their average gross earnings grew from HUF 200,000 to HUF 250,000. Thus, the number of unemployed people is also 51 thousand less in just one year, if I look at the past period, from June to June last year, if I look at the summer data. And the other side, too, is that more money is left over than people, because on the one hand more people are working, on the other hand, gross earnings are higher, and, thirdly, taxes are lower, either due to family taxation or through a single-key tax. This is why from 2014 to 2015, retail sales increased by 7 percent, as there is more money than people, they can spend more, and therefore retail sales have increased, now perhaps 20 months on a continuous basis. In terms of savings, people's savings have increased by 8 percent in recent years. This also shows that more money is left over by people, they can make more money, and therefore workers' poverty is constantly decreasing. But if you look at other data, the proportion of cars placed on the market has increased by 20 percent, or the number of housing permits issued has increased by 39 percent. They all show that not only on one side, on the revenue side, but where this edition appears, you can see that there is more money left than people. Of course, we would also like to continue the policy of wage increases, as the wages of teachers will increase in September this year, and in all other areas, in the public sector, we strive to make more money and pay less taxes. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, from the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-21	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me remember, in the spirit of bureaucracy, one of the fathers of the establishment of the modern Hungarian administration, the 140 years ago, on 20 October 1875, the Tisza Kálmán, our fellow politician, the Prime Minister of Hungary, who was born on 16 December 1830 in Geszten of Bihar County as the young son of a wealthy noble family. In 1861, he was elected as a Member of Parliament and then became Vice-President of this House. Tisza opposed the Deák compromise, i.e. the establishment of joint ministries and delegations, so he joined the Deák Subtitles Party against which he became president. The independent Hungarian army, the commercial and financial system, has set itself the goal of establishing a separate central bank in such a way as to demand the diplomatic recognition of Hungary at the same time. In 1876 all former administrative units - chair, district, agricultural town, free royal city and the rest - were liquidated and united in 65 counties. In 1882 he set up the state police and introduced the school laws marked by the name of the cult minister Trefort Ágoston. From all of this, it is clear that Tisza Kálmán considered the old system to be unsuitable for solving the long-unsolved problems of Hungary, so today he sought and found unorthodox solutions. Ladies and Gentlemen, After nearly a century and a half, there is a question to be decided, namely whether the second Orbán government did not act in the same way when the Hungarian electorate overthrows the old system in April 2010 and authorised Fidesz-KDNP to create a new social contract and fill in its content. The answer is a clear yes. However, achieving yes was not easy, and it is not easy at present. The country expects us to continue this work in the area of public administration and to implement the service administration. The work started when we launched a complete reorganization of the public administration, and in order to ensure efficient, quick and simple administration, we created government windows close to the citizens' residence, where at present nearly 450 types of cases can be handled in one window, and our aim is to increase the number of cases at one window to over a thousand. Ladies and Gentlemen, The State Reform II. In the framework of the programme for cutting red tape, the government submitted a package of laws to Parliament, which, by amending 110 laws, helps to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses. The government has allocated HUF 10 billion from next year's budget specifically for this purpose. Ladies and Gentlemen, With all of this, I wanted to highlight that we are facing many challenges, but in the interests of Hungarian citizens, we are trying to be able to do what we know best, because we know one thing that Kálmán Tisza knew:. It is worth doing well, especially if he is doing them for God and his country. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-22	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Zoltán Kovács will respond.
u2015-10-19-23	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me, after this historical reflection, to quote a historical thought from the king of the hat I really don't like, but somewhere, there is nothing new under the sun you've been talking about. Count Ferenc Esterházy wrote to the founder of the papal hospital, which means that you will, regardless of the past and the present, only care to govern properly for the benefit of public affairs, to increase the state, with fairness to each individual. The main aspect must be the simplification of negotiations, the avoidance of any bypass, which results in decreasing amounts of writing, the saving of personnel. This was said more than 250 years ago, honourable Member, which is why the Orbán government started in 2010 in order to restore and improve the trust relationship between a citizen and the state within the framework of a reduction of bureaucracy in line with the criteria of a good state. After all, we all know that this trust has run out in the long run. This is being restored, and one part of this is the inclusion of a bureaucracy reduction package amending 110 laws before Parliament. In view of the fact that bureaucratic legislation actually kills administration - citing - and partly from the citizens' side and partly from the administrator's side. I would like to tell you and to inform this House that, although the government is the author of this proposal, the idea is, if it is allowed to use this term, that it comes from the ends, the district offices and the government offices, which laws are annoying to citizens, they ask them for a lot of permission, documents, and also from the administration side, to create extraordinary difficulties. More than 1100 proposals have come in, and a summary of them is included in this 110 law. This is about the partial simplification and transformation of the public administration, but the State does not wish to intervene only at these points in the public administration or in the public administration. Its firm intention is to bring new ones into the system both in the area of tax administration, which has already been mentioned by Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga; it also intends to establish a new system for building rules, which is simpler and makes it easier for citizens to apply construction legislation where appropriate; and access to EU funds is an area that is very important, whether on the side of businesses or on the side of different applicants. [[13.50]] I would like to say that this is only one part of this so-called package, and the other part is what you mentioned, that from 1 January 2016 the government intends to leave in the pocket of citizens some HUF 10 billion in the budget by abolishing or reducing a number of more than 20 administrative service fees or charges, that is its intention. The proposal on this is practically ready and will be submitted to Parliament in the near future. This is all a procedural and administrative service fee which, in the case of replacement of lost IDs, the student ID or admission fee for students, but it is also important to issue the certificate, the so-called zero certificate or, where applicable, the site authorisation procedure on the basis of the tax administration procedure, to a significant extent affect several social groups, and we would like to provide them with less expenditure and simpler procedures in this way. To this end, this package of laws contains a reduction in procedural times, it would terminate the repeal procedure in the appeal procedure, with a few exceptions, because it is very annoying that a procedure is being restarted, making the procedures subject to authorisation subject to notification in a number of cases. I believe that this activity on the part of the government, by reducing administrative bureaucracy, is simplifying and speeding up administrative procedures. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Part of a government programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Gábor Vona, leader of the Jobbik faction, applied for a pre-meeting speech. When will there be a settlement in Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-10-19-25	Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is safe to say that corruption in Hungary today is the swamp in which everything goes wrong, unfortunately the good initiatives too. Although in the last 25 years each opposition party has promised in its electoral programme to achieve accountability, to minimise or minimise corruption in Hungary, then when the respective parties won the election and came to government, they did not stop corruption, but instead became the engines and operators of it. And there are basically two reasons why this has always happened. One of the things that folk wisdom used to say is that raven ravens don't dig their eyes out, or the hand washes their hands, right, so those on government were involved in corruption, so they weren't interested in eliminating it. The other reason is closely linked to this, and this is that the parties to the government have not only become corrupted by going to government, but have already built their operation on corruption mechanisms in opposition, opposition party or party formation. And it is reasonable to see that anyone who is already building his party on corruption mechanisms and operation cannot eliminate this by going to the government, because if he were to eliminate corruption, he would essentially have to eliminate his own structures. And that's how we got there in 2015, which, by the way, I wouldn't have thought myself in 2010, that today we can say that Fidesz has surpassed the socialists in terms of corruption. In this Parliament, it has been said many times that when the socialists were in government, the money was rolled out with wheelbarrows. Ladies and gentlemen, You're doing the same thing, just not like that, with a wheelbarrow all over the place, but with a truck on schedule to get the money out on their corruption channels. I have fidesz acquaintances who tell themselves that they are ashamed, ashamed of all the corruption scandals that accompany the government of their own party. They tend to defend themselves in these conversations by defending their own position by saying that the Prime Minister is not aware of it, that Commissioner Viktor Orbán does not know about it, because if the Prime Minister knew about it, he would eliminate this corruption. I always think about it when, in the Soviet Union, comrades were taken to execution, and under the gallows, poor people said that if Comrade Stalin knew about it, this nonsense would certainly not happen to them. Now, Comrade Stalin didn't know what had happened, he gave the order himself, and I think we're dealing with something similar here. Every fish reeks of its head. Every fish reeks of its head! With regard to Viktor Orbán, I think that this self-destruction of the sympathizers of Fidesz is a deceptive illusion that should be overcome - a self-deception. So there's no such thing as bad advisors, and there's a good king. If the King's environment is bad, that king is bad. Let us remember a little about the period 1998-2002, the period of the first Orbán government: who then surrounded the Prime Minister? István Nemeskhürty - recently deceased, God rest his soul - Gyula Tellér, Tóth Gy. Laszlo, there are people whose morality is unbreakable. Now, if we ask ourselves, who are the Prime Minister's three main confidants, what are the names? Let me tell you three things: Andy Vajna, Butcher Lőrinc and Árpád Habony. Now, aside from all the political affiliations and points of view, I ask you, my fellow Members, are there any of us here who would dare put their hands on fire for these three people? [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Or even one of them. You don't need it for all three, just for one who would dare put his hand on fire - no one would dare put their hands on fire. By the way, what the Prime Minister thinks of this issue, in general about corruption that is flooding Hungary, can account for this today, since today all Jobbik's speeches are on this issue. We will have interviews, we will have immediate questions, personally to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, and believe me, my fellow Members, who do not have a shirt, do not take it on; I know that you have decent representatives, there are decent mayors, fair Fidesz members, and I will even say that there are decent members of the government, but you also know the story when a little bird flies over the big goulash and gets dirty in this goulash - who needs it? Nobody! No one's gonna eat a plate of that. And that's not the case with you, but the other way around: there's a bowl of bird dirt or a curly bird dirt - you'll cut a few slices of potatoes or a few slices of carrots and some vegetables, even with salt and pepper, it'll be a mess. And as long as this scumbag is not eliminated from Hungary as long as corruption controls this country, until every decent initiative - even your fair initiative - goes off in this corruption network, there will be no system change in Hungary; every decent and good initiative will drown in this corruption network. And until there is a government in this country that will eliminate it, Hungary will live in this lump. If Jobbik goes to government in 2018, its most important task will be to eliminate the corruption network. If we do this, we've done more than you and the socialists have done in the last 25 years. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-26	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State L. Simon László will respond. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. It's ringing.]]
u2015-10-19-27	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Dear Chief of Staff, The raven's eyes are not cut out: if the leader of the group wanted to interpret that the socialists and the Fidesz were blowing a platform, then he put on an old record, because you operate with it continuously in Parliament, and since they seem to have run out of their last subject, the government stands out as decisively and efficiently as possible. [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] in the most decisive and effective way in the protection of Hungarian citizens and the Hungarian nation, in order to stop the migrant crisis, you are coming up again with the old record because you cannot talk about the fact that this government will not do everything possible to protect our country. It's the old recipe. Socialists come at the same time with starving poor people and growing child poverty; we are used to you coming with such things. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] But, Mr. Group Leader, once you have the courage and the courage to stand up and name companies and politicians, you must press charges. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] You're just mean... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I have listened to you, my fellow Members, and I have listened to the accusations, and I would like to hear them with dignity. You're making accusations, you're not making any specific statements, you're not making any allegations, there's only one evidence in your hands, and there's nothing to prove, Mr. Group Leader. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Would they have been so loud at 200 million of Gábor Simon, honourable Member, or would they have been so loud then? [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] when the European Parliament finally suspended the immunity of your representative, Béla Kovács! What kind of cases does Béla Kovács have? Why did you hide Béla Kovács then, why didn't you stand up and tell Béla Kovács to give up his immunity? [[Dóra Dúró: We told you a thousand times!]] Here in Parliament, you are always voting against the maintenance of immunity, honourable Members... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] I wonder what kind of business he's brought you from the Russians and what kind of covert party support he's brought you from the Russians. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Paks II!]] Béla Kovács? Please report this, fellow Members. [[14.00]] Prime Minister, you've already answered once, Mr. Group Leader, that what hurts the most is that you don't own the business, that you don't share the money with your own people when you... [[György Szilágyi: The business is yours! Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks: Which business?]] - the business you're running. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-10-19-28	Go on.
u2015-10-19-29	Thank you very much. I'm glad to be able to continue. In any case, we say to the public of the country: this is the parliamentary majority, this is the two-thirds majority. [[Adam Mirkóczki: There are no more two thirds!]] the new Party Finance Act, which decoupled the parties from the circles of economic interest, decoupled their management from subsidies, decoupled itself from the oligarchs. This parliamentary majority is the one that can confront both foreign and domestic large companies in the interests of the country, the nation. This parliamentary majority adopted the new public procurement law two weeks ago, which will enter into force on 1 November, this parliamentary majority lowered the public procurement thresholds and made the procurement process much more transparent, honourable Members. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] What I can say, fellow Members, is that, thanks to God, the spiritual moonyard of Fidesz, there are excellent people like Gyula Tellér working right now. Gyula Tellér, the Prime Minister's Chief Advisor, is standing next to us right now. And he's got top-notch professionals like Professor Granadoi working with him. Take a look at it once. [[Gustav Zoltai!]] the intellectuals of the tycoon... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-10-19-30	Congressman, we're gonna wait for the Jobbik to stop laughing and yelling. [[István Apáti: This is a parliamentary genre!]]
u2015-10-19-31	Thank you very much. Take a look at it once...
u2015-10-19-32	Wait a minute, Congressman, Mr. Secretary, we'll count you in time. We'll wait for them to calm down. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-33	Thank you very much. Well, the truth is painful, and it hurts a lot, and that's why my better fellow Members are yelling. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, once you would like to see an intellectual meeting in Vötche, who comes there, what they are talking about, how they stand up for our policy. Who are the responsible intellectuals who support the national policy of this government, who have clearly believed in the recent years that the National Unification Programme, which was supported by the new Fundamental Law, the Law on Witnessing to National Inclusion, and what other laws could be listed, so who are the intellectuals who have supported our peaceful national unification programme? Who are the intellectuals who otherwise support our economic policy? [[Dr. Agnes Vadai applauds.]] Do you support all our efforts? What I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, is that corruption is always a two-way street. It takes not only the one who is corrupted, but the one who wants to corrupt. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Experience, Minister of State!]] At the moment in Hungary, half of Hungary's companies have anti-corruption regulations, and otherwise... [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] - but I'd really like to finish it. On the basis of the latest survey by Ernst & Young, I can tell you that 90 percent of the companies surveyed have said that their management is strongly in favour of anti-corruption, honourable Members. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So I must say to you that not only in the world of politics, but also in the world of the economy, there is an interest in ensuring that our public life is clean.
u2015-10-19-34	Thank you very much.
u2015-10-19-35	You're just accusing me if you have any specific information, press charges. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-36	Thank you very much. Mr Lajos Kósa, the leader of the group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader. [[Noise. It's ringing.]]
u2015-10-19-37	Mr. President. Dear House, By 18 October, 390,000 illegal border crossings took place. Recently, the number of illegally entering our country was between 5 and 10 thousand per day. Now, when the southern border sections are complete, the border lock , and the technical lock is not only there, but also behind it are soldiers, policemen and flesh-and-blood Hungarian civil servants, and we are pleased to note that the number of illegal border crossings has fallen dramatically: on 16 October 23 people were on the Serbian-Hungarian border section, there was no border closure at that time, 6200 people on the Croatian border section. Then, on the 15th, the border closure came into force, on the Serbian border section 8 people, on the Hungarian-Croatian section 800 people, on the next day 41 people in the Serbian border section, on the Croatian-Hungarian border section zero people. This sequence shows that, yes, the technical border closure is effective, we were able to protect Hungary and the southern borders of the European Union. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That's what the left-wing opposition says it's a symptomatic treatment. Of course, they are right in the sense that the border closure has not otherwise eliminated the fundamental causes of illegal immigration, of this modern-day migration. But protecting the Hungarian border and the Schengen border is certain. In fact, all we can say is that the legal order is restored. It is strange that the opposition is attacking this, and when the Hungarian government finally forces the enforcement of the legal order, of the Schengen conventions and of the Dublin conventions, they are not happy about it, but they are attacking it, they say that it is only a symptomatic treatment. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We laugh!]] But, dear opposition, when the patient lies with a fever of 40 degrees, the doctor will first relieve the fever, because otherwise the patient will die, and not think, like you, that he is looking for complex solutions in the ether, because the patient will die. You're like a buttercup who doesn't relieve the patient's fever, but you're wondering how a complex approach to the disease would be best suited. Thank God you don't govern, because today the number of illegal immigrants in Hungary wouldn't have stopped at 390,000, but we'd be at half a million. [[Zoltán Lukács: That's for sure! Zoltán Grimlock: I think it's over a million!]] Dear House, At the same time, we need to be clear: the European solution, which the opposition so fondly mentions, is the European solution on the left: as many immigrants come to Europe, everyone is welcomed. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: The entire opposition?]] Of the opposition, Jobbik is the exception, who has taken the simple position that the laws must be respected by everyone, even if they come from Saudi Arabia, even if they come from the United States, and even if they are from Pakistan, because we, oddly, do not tolerate illegal border crossings from the law states, and we obviously do not tolerate them from war zones to 100,000 numbers. It's not normal. The next round is obviously that Europe must protect its borders. We can't take the left-wing position of letting everyone in. We cannot let everyone in because we cannot be in solidarity by trying to stop Europe's foundations. That's why we're rejecting the quota. Neither the decision on the 120,000 quota of 140,000 is a solution to anything or even an invitation to immigrants, nor a distribution mechanism. In fact, this means for us that what the Hungarian police, the Hungarian soldiers and the civil servants have protected from the east, from the south, we will get it back from the west, now in the form of a distribution mechanism and quota. We must fight this, we must protest and we must hear the message of the Hungarian people: protect the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-10-19-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, Modern-day migration, as the most serious challenge in the history of the European Union, will remain with us until the European Union can regain control of its own borders, and this challenge will remain with us until 5 to 10 thousand immigrants flow into Europe every day uncontrolled. We must protect Europe, protect European values and protect common European rules. [[14.10]] This weekend Hungary proved that this was possible, the extremely complicated border police task was also solved. In practice, we can now report to Parliament, as Mr. Group Leader said, that the influx of illegal immigrants into Hungary has ceased at our southern borders. We thank, of course, the police and soldiers who, without their hard work, could not have done this report today, and we thank you, I must say once again, the Visegrád countries. We thank the Slovak, Czech and Polish governments for their help and contribution to prove that the external borders of the European Union and the Schengen area can be protected by joining forces. From this point forward, I think, Mr Group Leader, that there can be no excuse, no argument can be used against why 28 of us cannot defend the external borders of Greece, because that would be the best solution. This is the second best solution we have created at the southern border of Hungary. At the same time, Mr Group Leader, we agree that the danger coming from the South has been an obstacle, but we are now facing a new threat to modern-day population migration, which is coming from the West. And let's face it, the mandatory immigration quota, the compulsory immigration admission quota, in practice, if we translate it, means briefly that all the people who have been allowed into Western Europe without any control, in disregard of European rules, will now be redistributed to us, to us, who have made extraordinary efforts to protect our common European rules and our common European values. I would like to tell you, Mr Group Leader, that the compulsory admission quota is unacceptable for Hungary. It is unacceptable, because the decision which made this possible and which requires it is, in our view, decided by breaking European legislation. Our position is that nation-state entitlements and nation-state rights were taken when this decision was taken in Brussels. During the five-party consultation held with the Prime Minister, it became clear to us that the parties in Hungary are united in rejecting compulsory admission quotas. An even stronger argument, Mr Group Leader, is that, during the national consultation, the Hungarian people made their position on this issue clear, and in the national consultation, the Hungarian people made their position clear, and the compulsory admission quota is quite simply incompatible with that position. Therefore, I would like to inform Mr Group Leader that the Government will bring to Parliament its proposal on what action should be taken on the European stage, which could be taken against the compulsory immigrant admission quota. We will, of course, also consult with our Visegrád partners and we will ask for the position of the Hungarian Parliament, the support and decision of the Hungarian Parliament, so that Hungary can take action on the European scene against the new threat and threat of modern-day migration from the West. We believe that it is not only in Hungary, but also in Europe's interest to maintain this regulation in the long term, so we will be asking for Parliament's support so that we can attack this regulation on the European stage. Thank you very much for raising the subject, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-19-40	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-10-19-41	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik; Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward before the agenda: Bernadett Szél, LMP; Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP; Attila Móring József, KDNP; Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz; János Volner, Jobbik. On Tuesday, László Varju, independent; István Ikotity, LMP; Előd Novák, Jobbik. On Wednesday, László Varju, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP. On Thursday, László Varju, independent; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2015-10-19-42	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript of the appointment of a minister to the Parliament. I would like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript.
u2015-10-19-43	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that, pursuant to Article 9 (four) (c) of the Fundamental Law and Article 16 (7) - on the proposal of the Prime Minister - I have appointed Mr.Antal Rogán as Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister with effect from 17 October 2015. Budapest, 16 October 2015 Sincerely: János Áder
u2015-10-19-44	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, as decided in the resolution of the House Committee on the pre-appointing hearing of the candidates for ministerial office, the Minister-designate was heard by the Judicial Committee. You can read the resolution on the website. Now the solemn oath and the oath will be signed. I would like to ask the Minister, Antal Rogán, to come to the centre of the Chamber; and then I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read out the text of the oath; and I would kindly ask the Parliament to stand up and listen to the oath. [[The people in this room stand up. Antal Rogán steps into the middle of the room. Notary Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2015-10-19-45	I, Antal Rogán, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as a minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2015-10-19-46	Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would kindly ask Minister Antal Rogán to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring József, who signed the oath document, congratulates Antal Rogán and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] Dear Parliament, For the new mandate of Minister Antal Rogán, I wish the Parliament and myself effective work and good luck. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament his transcripts on the termination of the office of State Secretary and the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcripts of the President of the Republic. [[14.20]]
u2015-10-19-47	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the basis of Article 2 (2) of the Prime Minister's proposal, Nándor Csepreghy was appointed State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 8 October 2015. Budapest, 7 October 2015 Mr János Áder [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and Section XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and on the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 52. On the basis of Article 2 (2) of the Prime Minister's proposal, Nándor Csepreghy was appointed State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 8 October 2015. Budapest, 7 October 2015 János Áder. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties. )
u2015-10-19-48	I wish you good work, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Messenger?
u2015-10-19-49	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 55. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I relieved Dr. Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, with effect from 8 October 2015, at the same time as Article 9 (4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, Dr. Pál Völner was appointed Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice with effect from 9 October 2015. Budapest, 7 October 2015 Sincerely: János Áder [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and Section XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and on the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 55. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I relieved Dr. Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, with effect from 8 October 2015, at the same time as Article 9 (4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, Dr. Pál Völner was appointed Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice with effect from 9 October 2015. Budapest, 7 October 2015 Sincerely: János Áder. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties. )
u2015-10-19-50	We thank Róbert Répássy for his work and congratulate him on the appointment of Pál Völner.
u2015-10-19-51	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 54. On the basis of Article 8 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that the mandate of Dr. Sándor Czomba, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, was terminated with effect from 8 October 2015 and that the mandate of Béla Glatttfelder, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, was terminated with effect from 31 October 2015. Also Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. Law 52. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Anna Hornung Ágnes and Péter Cseresnyés, with effect from 9 October 2015, István Lepsényi, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, with effect from 1 November 2015. 7 October 2015 Sincerely: János Áder [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and Section XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and on the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 54. On the basis of Article 8 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that the mandate of Dr. Sándor Czomba, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, was terminated with effect from 8 October 2015 and that the mandate of Béla Glatttfelder, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, was terminated with effect from 31 October 2015. Also Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. Law 52. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Anna Hornung Ágnes and Péter Cseresnyés, with effect from 9 October 2015, István Lepsényi, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, with effect from 1 November 2015. 7 October 2015 Sincerely: János Áder. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties. )
u2015-10-19-52	Thank you for the work of Sándor Czomba and Béla Glattfelder. Congratulations to Anna Hornung Ágnes, Péter Cseresnyés and István Lepsényi.
u2015-10-19-53	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 54. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that the mandate of Dr. Gábor Zombor, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, was terminated with effect from 8 September 2015. Also Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. Zoltán Gusztáv Ónodi-Szűcs as State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources with effect from 15 October 2015. Budapest, 14 October 2015 Dr. János Áder. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and Section XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and on the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 54. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that the mandate of Dr. Gábor Zombor, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, was terminated with effect from 8 September 2015. Also Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. Zoltán Gusztáv Ónodi-Szűcs as State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources with effect from 15 October 2015. Budapest, 14 October 2015 Dr. János Áder. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties. )
u2015-10-19-54	Thank you for Gábor Zombor's work, and we wish him good health. Congratulations to Dr. Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs. Dear Parliament, Allow me, once again, to congratulate the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State on behalf of Parliament and myself, and to wish you an effective work and success in your work. At the same time, I declare that the provisions on certain house rules are laid down in Article 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution of 24 February 2006 3. On 12 October 2015, the Group of the Group of the Jobbik for Hungary Movement elected Mrs Dóra Dúró, Mr György Lukács and Mr Gábor Staudt, and Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the political parliamentary group, from this day forward, as Deputy Head of the Group. Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate you on your appointment and wish you every success in your work. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties, Jobbik and LMP.]] Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame on a proposal from the House Committee. On this basis, the Speaker of Parliament initiates that V/6541 on the transfer of state-owned land into private property. The Parliament shall discuss a proposal with a serial number in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the groups of the Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP, the resolution on certain house rules is 37 Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2015-10-19-55	Dear Parliament, The proposed four-hour timeframe is divided by the following: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, with a doubling in total of 164 minutes; 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, with a doubling in total of 92 minutes; 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, with a doubling in total of 82 minutes; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group; 24 minutes for the LMP Group, with a doubling in total of 48 minutes; and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2015-10-19-56	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed in a time frame modified by the notary, as requested by Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal by 136 votes in favour, 28 against, without abstention in the time frame. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group suggested that the 1997 CLIV on health. T/6398 amending Act T/6398 for the debate of the Commission's report on the National Fund for Earth 2010 (LXXXVII) on today's meeting. T/6080 amending Act T/6080 on the need to protect national land assets. A legislative proposal with a serial number shall be submitted following the negotiation of its application for inclusion in the series of articles. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. However, before that, honourable Parliament, I declare that the rapporteur has initiated the convening of the Committee on Budgets on the amendment of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 T/6326. Therefore, the debate on the Commission report and the final vote will not take place at this meeting. Thus, the presentation does not form part of today, tomorrow or next Monday's meeting. [[14.30]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The Speaker of Parliament proposed to ask the negotiating committee to decide on the Parliament's report. The house rules are 85. Pursuant to § (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on this without debate. B/5793.2. I ask the Honourable Parliament, on the basis of a motion with a serial number, whether it invites the designated Economic Committee to invite the T/5763 on the experience gained during the 2014 activities of the Economic Competition Authority and the application of the Competition Act in relation to the application of the law on the purity and freedom of competition. a decision on a proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take its decision by 107 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on personal suggestions. The election of the new notary of the Parliament will follow. I declare that Mrs. Erzsébet Schmuck has resigned as notary today. Allow me to thank the notary woman for her work so far. Dear Parliament, During the five-party negotiations to prepare for the inaugural meeting, it was agreed that the LMP Group could propose to fill this notary. President of the Parliament S/6753. He made a personal proposal on a serial number. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the proposal.
u2015-10-19-57	Dear Parliament, 11/2014 on the election of Parliament's officials. Parliamentary resolution is amended as follows: Parliament elects István Ikotity as notary of Parliament instead of Erzsébet Schmuck. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2015-10-19-58	Dear Parliament, An amendment to the motion cannot be tabled; Parliament shall decide on the official without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it elects Mr István Ikotity as notary of the Parliament. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Mr Ikotity as notary with 161 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. Allow me to congratulate you on the election of the new notary of the Parliament and wish you every success in your work. [[István Ikotity: Thank you.]] Dear Parliament, The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/6762. by serial number. In doing so, he proposes that Erik Bánki, Chairman of the Committee, Jenő Manninger, Vice-President of the Committee, and Mr Sándor Czomba, Vice-President of the Committee, replace Péter Cseresnyés, will replace István Hollik, as Chair of the Committee, and Imre Vas will be elected as a member of the Committee to replace Mr Répássy as Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposals by 161 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:35 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Lukács, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, What is the reason for 150 percent of the insufferable wage increase of state CEOs? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Mr. László L. Simon, Minister of State, Head of the Prime Minister's Office of János Lázár, who is responsible and competent according to the subject [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] János Fónagy? - I'm asking. (To sign:) Then L. Simon László Secretary of State will respond. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Lukács.
u2015-10-19-59	Thank you very much. Ladies and Gentlemen, When the second Orbán government took office, you called it impertinent - the word was used - the monthly salaries higher than two million forints in public companies. Then they said no one could make more money in the public sector. Then came the good friends, friends and relatives you've appointed, and then it turns out that they want to make more than that, and then you couldn't resist that. Therefore, they introduced the ruse that they had received very large premiums and other benefits in addition to their salary, so they had already exceeded two million forints, so they played out their own legislation. Then, in a short time, it turned out that even this was not enough, so in 2012 this two million-dollar ceiling was quietly abolished. They probably thought that if your friends got more than two million, it wouldn't be as brazen as others getting it. Recently, László Domokos, your former representative, President of the Court of Auditors, raised the idea that the salary of the heads of state companies should be much higher, since he is very behind the competition sector. I would like to point out that the competition sector is not so far behind, because according to surveys, the wages of Hungarian managers in foreign-owned companies account for an average of 606 thousand Hungarian-owned companies and 520 thousand forints on average in public companies. Therefore, you want to raise this ceiling to five million forints. I'd like to raise this to five million forints a month, and that's what you're gonna find out with a 20-percent bonus. And it also says that this bonus can be paid even if the manager can achieve a total amount that the company is not loss-making. So this means that if the company is already in zero, it can take up 20 percent of its five million-year amount... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Interjection, three minutes.]]
u2015-10-19-60	Three, I'm sorry.
u2015-10-19-61	Fidesz will reward five million a month for that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Secretary of State that if in 2010 the salaries above two million forints were considered impolite for public companies, then what would you call the five million-dollar ceiling at the same state company. Since the difference between the average wages of the competition sphere and the public sector does not justify this extremely high wage ceiling at all, how do they explain this measure? Are similar increases in wages planned in other areas of the public sector, such as nurses, nurses and education? Thank you very much.
u2015-10-19-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-10-19-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The truth is, they have a short memory. Prior to 2010, the salaries of state-owned companies were very high, and after 2010, we introduced the two million ceiling. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: No, it's a mistake, it was introduced by Bajnai!]] So it was just us who, in your time... [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I've been listening to you guys before, so let me finish. So, ladies and gentlemen, it was just us who, in 2012, stopped the incredibly high wages and maximized the salaries of the company's managers in two million forints. [[14.40]] During the change of government in 2010, many of the executives we were dissatisfied with felt that they were not doing their job effectively enough. [[Anita Bering: Were they not loyal enough?]] So I have to say that several of them have sued the Hungarian state. Some of them asked the state for compensation of nearly 200 million forints. This is a good indication of the money and payment categories that you have been thinking about, fellow Members. The two million ceiling has worked so far, but many have suggested that this two million ceiling should not be maintained. As you pointed out, this is what the President of the State Audit Office did. The President of the SAO was also a guest at the government meeting, and the President of the SAO expressed his opinion that the quality, transparency, regularity, performance and effectiveness of the operation of public companies cannot be separated from the remuneration and incentive system of state company managers. Ladies and gentlemen, After all this, the government began to deal with the concept that eventually took shape and form. An important part of this concept was to compare ourselves with all the countries of Europe, but in particular the V4 were the basis for comparison for us. Thus, the government examined, in addition to the SAO's opinion, the remuneration of managers of similar state-owned V4 companies. The first aspect was to put an end to hidden pay systems, to make it a real situation. After all, it is very important that there have been all kinds of bonuses and other additions in the last decades, and we have said that the system should be transparent and clear, and that is why we have examined the V4 Member States. In the Czech Republic, for example, in the public sector, managers' wages range from 4.2 to 14.7 million forints, i.e. to HUF 14.7 million. In Poland, the same amount is between HUF 1.6-6.8 million. In Slovakia they are between 1.2 and 5.6 million forints, and generally between 20 and 60 per cent of the premium is due to the CEOs of the V4 countries. I think that comparing the pay system that is now being introduced is a viable and fair system, where, in addition, we are eliminating the possibility to reward, in all ways, the managers of companies who run a non-profit public company or who otherwise run the public company at a loss. It wasn't possible in your time before. And now we are going to introduce a system, honourable Members, in which we have clear responsibilities and income conditions, and, of course, we are also introducing a wage ceiling, maximizing the wages of state company managers. This means that five, four and three million HUF categories will be created. And if the congressman has already asked the public sector, I can tell you that this two-thirds majority was the one who directed the wages of teachers, and this two-thirds majority is the one that also directed the wages of uniforms, and we are going on this work towards other areas of the public sector. Thank you very much, fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Luke if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-10-19-65	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, allow me to say who cares how much they make in Poland. What interests me is that in Hungary, you want to give your friends five million forints a month. In addition, honor the voters by not lying to their faces, because you pulled this ceiling in 2010 and ended it in 2012, not in 2012. That's a very big difference. You know, five million forints is a lot for one person in a month. I'd like to tell you that, say, a baby-school teacher earns in four and a half years as much as this one month's salary, or a kindergarten nurse earns in five and a half years, which is a month's salary. [[Interview from Fidesz: How much does he earn?]] Or the average wage of a firefighter will be paid in three and a half years as much as this five million forints, or the salary of a nurse will be five million forints in four and a half years. I would like to ask you to forget this, not distribute five million forints of salaries to your friends, but pay the normal working people in this country. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-19-66	Congressman Luke, I understood that you would not accept the answer. [[Zoltán Lukács: You got that right, Mr President.]] Thank you very much, confirm me. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 48 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. This is how you steal - fidesz corruption in Hungarian sports life. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2015-10-19-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, For the last 25 years, XX. The parties of the century, Fidesz and the MSZP together built a corruption-based world in the country. In the last five years, the second and third Orbán governments have developed a corruption-based harmful system in a new area, built it up and made sport corruption a part of everyday life with the help of state sports subsidies. Because, yes, in my opinion, it is also a form of corruption if the sports associations, the various associations, receive state money in order to achieve their goals, whether or not it is led by a fidesz politician. Unfortunately, that's how the sports world works now: if you're close to the inner circles of Fidesz, you'll get along, if you don't belong to the buddy circle, then solve your problems the way you can. This attitude has led to the fact that, from the Hungarian Olympic Commission to almost all the sports professional associations, politicians sitting in the presidential and leadership seats are sitting up to the larger associations. Jobbik has repeatedly demanded that politics, politicians, should withdraw from direct management of Hungarian sports life. We have repeatedly tried to block the role of politicians as sports leaders in the form of a bill, and you have always voted against these initiatives. Perhaps the best example of the harmful relationship between sport and politics, my brother Viktor Orbán, is what has happened in Felcsú in the last five years, since a super stadium of 3.8 billion forints was built in the village of 1800, almost in the garden of Viktor Orbán. In fact, in five years he migrated through the lake to the club founded by Viktor Orbán, the chairman of which is not just anyone: the Prime Minister's friend, Lőrinc Mészáros, is a major contractor. The Mészáros Lőrinc, who has become a wealthy major contractor from a simple gasman, is now one of the hundred richest people in the country, who said that he owes his rise to God, fortune and Viktor Orbán. This could mean that he prayed a lot to the good Lord to get lucky, and then he met Viktor Orbán. This is how sports development works in Hungary today, so you use tens and hundreds of billions of public money for your own personal and political purposes. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State why Viktor Orbán's friends always take the greasy state-government shops. Why does Viktor Orbán's friends control the distribution of public funds for sport? When are you going to eliminate this harmful trend, that the allocation of public funds for sport is not in the interests of sport, but in the interests of fidesz politicians? [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Why do you not support Jobbik's demand that politics, politicians, honourable fellow Members, withdraw from direct management of Hungarian sports life? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-10-19-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is probably not a coincidence, Jobbik is not speaking here in Parliament about how much sports subsidies have increased, both for mass sports and competition sports, because compared to the 98.4 billion last year, which was also a high amount, 111.8 billion HUF is available this year, so it is more than 20 percent more. However, you can see that Jobbik is starting today with the title of every speech he has said by saying that you are stealing. [[Interjection from Jobbik: Liberated after John Lazarus!]] This is a very witty and unique solution from an opposition party to accuse the ruling parties of corruption. Probably, if we looked around the world's parliaments, we would find this in few places - I quote. But no wonder, it seems that Jobbik recently had to find a theme to translate something from this negative trend by reducing its popularity. On the one hand, the faction leadership replaced all the faction leaders and then found such a topic. It seems to be the only consensus within the Jobbikon to launch such a communication campaign against government policy. There was nothing else that could be found within the faction, either an independent facial life, or a stand-alone subject, or a consensus, but to bring forward a topic that all opposition parties in all parliaments around the world can say at any time when they accuse the current party of government of corruption. It also seems that Jobbik's political machinery is tired and is trying to capitalize on some political capital. [[14.50]] That Fidesz would be linked to all the sports union presidents? Honourable Congressman, On the one hand, who is the leader of the sports federations is not decided by Fidesz, not by KDNP, but democratically elected by an autonomous organization. I understand that it is painful for you to be better-valued, or rather I would say that Jobbik-related people have not been elected to these positions, but Fidesz-KDNP leaders have. But if you were to look at this list and see who is at the head of the Kajak-Kenu Association, if you were to see who the Hungarian Swimming Federation is leading, or even who the Cycling Alliance is, you wouldn't accuse Fidesz of only joining the 16 flagship sports federations with Fidesz or KDNP leaders. After all, there are leaders who are truly political in the colors of Fidesz-KDNP, there are those who are not political in the colors of anyone, and there are those who have rated themselves or held a leading position in other political parties than Fidesz-KDNP. I think it is just a good example of the fact that these 16 sports associations have one, one at a time, and one at a time, that it does not matter at all what color one association is headed by, but all 16 associations receive much more support than they have received before, and each one has a greater opportunity to develop sports or recruit members. That Béla Kovács is not elected president in any of the sports associations? Well, I don't think there's anything to be surprised about. Let's see how else could have been created in the Tao system, for example, what you have just criticized here. The 300 new sports facilities are open to all, honourable Member, anyone can enter the new facilities that have been created into the 500 new sports facilities that have been renewed. Or there's a radical rise in the number of certified athletes. These are all results that are completely independent of party politics, and we can all be proud of it, such as the increasing number of recreational sportsmen. Or that in 17 we could host the World Swimming, Waterball, Diving, Swimming, and Open Water Championship, was it influenced by what kind of president the Alliance has? I think not at all, Your Honour. Or the fact that the Hungarian Olympic Committee, the chosen public body of athletes, now has a good part of the resources, also shows how the athletes are better able to distribute sports grants among themselves. This all contradicts what you said, honourable Member. What can be read in the news about one or another of Jobbik's party foundings, and I think it also challenges Jobbik's credibility in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-10-19-71	Mr President, I cannot accept it at all, because if I were to classify this answer as a category of jokes, which did not quite mention the issue at all. For example, Tamás Deutsch, Vice-President of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, Vice-President of the Paralympic Committee, and the president of the MTK's association, can be such a leading sports genius who, I imagine, would be welcome to be a sports leader of another nation already in Western Europe. Or, for example, how much you appreciate athletes, that you have squashed a former Olympic champion, otherwise an excellent sports leader, so that Szilárd Németh can be president of the Wrestling Alliance, and we can still name it. Their attitude is about what we see in Felcsút: the 3.8 billion stadium is not enough in Viktor Orbán's garden, now we also need the small railway to stop there with Viktor Orbán immediately, to get on with the children and to enjoy themselves. You're running the whole country for your own good, for your own personal good, and not for your own good, and that, if you like the man who sells peach seeds, whether he doesn't, that's the way it is. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes to 43, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:.. How many public workers have been reinstated by the government? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2015-10-19-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In fact, it would be an answer to a very short interpellation if you told me how many people have been compensated for the 2303 people who, according to your own ministry's statement, were practically fired from their jobs and could do the work you had done as an employee. But I assume you're going to take the four minutes, because I assume you haven't done anything in this area in the last few months. But they're not alone, there's Zoltán Balog, who promised to investigate this blasphemous situation, and then, with a fake test, that minister was satisfied. The story started there, I told you years ago that there'd be trouble, because they're kicking employees out of this country, and then you can come back as a community worker, or him or someone else. They ignored this for years, and then suddenly I turned to the Ministry of the Interior with a public interest request for data, and they admitted - although they responded more narrowly than I asked - that there was an existing practice of re-employment, and you gave a name to this index: they called it a re-employment rate, the way that Hungarian workers are fired from their jobs, and they can come back as public workers, or they or someone else. I've asked you for all the data since your registration, but you haven't given me any data from 2011-12-13, and I haven't received any data on who those people are, how many of them have been rehired for three months. But what we have learned is that there are 2303 people in this country - this is the Ministry of the Interior - who, within three months, have been kicked out of their jobs completely illegally, illegally, by breaking all the rules that exist, and have been taken back as public workers. I would like to say three things to you about this. According to the LMP, it is unacceptable for anyone in this country to have to be afraid of being fired from their job and come back to work as a public worker. Or you know what, Secretary of State, if this fashion is in Hungary created by Fidesz, then let it be fashionable here in Parliament. How can you do your job if the boss could come to you at any moment and tell you that you're fired, but you can come back and do your job as Secretary of State just for a lot less money? It's unfair practice, what's going on. Secondly, it must be said that public work is not an alternative to market work, it cannot eliminate market jobs. They say money talks, dog barks. Mfor calculated how much money the country and Fidesz could have saved on the fact that this exercise had been put into effect. If I was only looking at the 2303 unfortunate people who were admitted to being illegally re-employed within three months by the Ministry of Interior, then if we were looking at average wages, the total wage cost would be 600 million forints a month. If they're hired as public workers, we're talking about 209 million. In English, two thirds of the total wage cost could be saved. And you know what, these numbers could save a lot of money in two years on these working people, and I'm not talking about 2303 people. But what I'm asking now, Mr. Secretary of State, are you making it up to these people? Are you back in your employees' work?
u2015-10-19-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. With all due respect, I would ask the congresswoman to study the house rules: we do not need to deviate from the text of the interpellation. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'll answer me anyway. [[Tibor Scones: Yes.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government's aim, I think, is clear to everyone, and we may even agree with you on that, because our goal is that all people who want to work and are fit for it can work. Obviously, our aim is to make sure that everyone can find a place in the primary labour market. At the same time, because of economic conditions, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, I think it would be worth seeing if everyone is able to work on the primary labour market, but the point is that at the moment there is no possibility for everyone to work without public work. I believe that we have achieved a great deal by giving people the opportunity to not live on welfare with the public works system, by giving them the opportunity to feel useful members of the local community on a regular basis, and by recognising the work they are doing. The government clearly does not want any job to be lost in order to replace it with an employee in public employment. In fact, the legislation would not in itself prohibit this, but in the grant agreements, it is indeed clear that a job that has ceased 90 days earlier cannot be employed by the public. [[15.00]] In the study you raised, it was indeed apparent that there were 2303 persons in the employment registers who were likely to have been suspected of re-employment, if any. We asked government agencies to investigate the possible cases, and the government offices examined the 2303 cases individually, from the NAV database, from the forms of payment, where the reemployment actually existed. In the course of the investigation, it was found that in a number of cases the declaration of legal relationships was inaccurate, as they also wrongly indicated as normal employment relationships which were in fact public employment relations before that date, or in some cases, that public employment was recruited after the termination of the contract of employment of those contracted for project work with fixed-term contracts where appropriate, which also does not constitute reemployment. During the individual investigation, when the workers were examined individually, it was found that this unacceptable practice, not a practice, but an unacceptable solution, was indeed established for 375 people when re-employment took place in this sense. The Ministry of Interior has called on government agencies to eliminate this practice in any event, and we have instructed them to investigate all similar phenomena, even if they arise. The Ministry of Interior has initiated the Government Offices to examine whether the conditions for re-employment also exist when entering public employment. I would like to inform you that the activities of the Ministry of Interior cover the organisation of public employment programmes and the organisation of a public employment system and, if possible, ensure that everyone is returned to the primary labour market as soon as possible. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-19-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Since the interpellation was submitted by two, I do not see Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck and Mrs Bernadett Szél, but Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck in the Chamber, I believe that they have agreed in advance to accept or not to accept the Secretary of State's reply. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Please, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, make a statement.
u2015-10-19-77	Mr President, I am sure that my fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, agrees that this embarrassing explanation on the part of the governing parties and on the part of the Ministry of the Interior was relatively problematic. [[Intercoms from the Fidesz benches.]] Dear Secretary of State, I want to know what happened to that 2303 man, and I want to know what happened in 2011, 2012 and 2013, why we couldn't get the data. And I would like to be assured that no Hungarian citizen will be able to get out of his job and that he or someone else will be re-employed as a public worker afterwards. The thing is, we're the ones who put in a bill, which was about bringing this system to an end. Fidesz-KDNP was the one who voted against it. Now you come: present a bill to suppress this system in the bud, and we will vote on it for the benefit of Hungarian citizens. Now the Home Office has the ball. Put in a bill, pull out the fangs. Ensure that Hungarian citizens will not lose their jobs and will not end up as public workers for a third of what they do.
u2015-10-19-78	If I'm reading this correctly, you won't accept the answer. [[For signal:]] Thank you. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 41 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Gyula Vantara, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:. In the digital economy, Hungary is one of the strongest in the EU. Congressman Gyula Vantara has the floor.
u2015-10-19-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A prosperous European digital economy is one of the cornerstones of growth and employment in the European Union and plays a fundamental role in modernising the traditional industry. The estimated profit from the digital market in terms of further growth could be hundreds of billions of euros and boost job creation to a significant extent. It is clear that Central Europe's role in the digital economy will be appreciated, and this region will be the EU's growth engine for the next decade and a half. Dear House, The figures show that Hungary is developing the most in the 21st century. The industrial revolution of the century in the EU. The weight of the digital economy sector in the national economy is stronger than the EU average, and the digital economy accounts for 21-22 percent of the total Hungarian national product, which employs 400,000 people, 15 percent of the employees, and Hungary is third in the EU. The rapid change in the modern world poses a challenge to democratic political systems, whether it be modern migration or the digitalisation of the world economy. Of course, everyone wants a rapid and profound change that improves people's quality of life, but it must, of course, be brought into line with people's need to control progress. The government is seeking to meet this democratic needs of the general public. In Hungary, the national consultation system has become part of a democratic culture in recent years, so that it is possible to make important decisions concerning the country's strategic interests before the Hungarian people decide on the issues that concern them. In the national consultation on the Internet, on the Internet, people have given a clear response to the desirable direction of development. The Hungarians supported the tax reduction and the reduction of internet prices. The six areas considered by the population to be the most important include strengthening compliance with regulations and measures for the protection of children and supporting the circle of people in need. At the same time, it is important that the Digital Single Market enhances the growth of many European industries, such as the most innovative and young creative industry, which have significant employment opportunities in today's rapidly changing environment. I think that this is no doubt for our future and is crucial. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary what a positive role the digital economy can play in the Hungarian economy of the future. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-19-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-10-19-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Fellow Members! Indeed, the digital economy and its impact on Hungary's development and the lives of Hungarian people are one of the most important daily topics and current ones, honourable Member, since last week Budapest organised a very prestigious international conference, the world conference of the International Telecommunications Association, where my fellow Members could see and hear, as diplomacy says, 65 countries represented themselves with high-level delegations. But overall, they were from nearly 130 countries who either exhibited or performed at the event, or they came to Hungary for some good experience, to study for this conference. Overall, more than 4,000 participants have discussed the direct impact of developments in IT and telecommunications on human life. We have a successful event behind us, this event was a success of Hungary. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the digital economy is now a new industrial revolution, and infocommunication technologies, which bring new solutions day by day, are already being used in all areas of the economy. Effectiveness has become a determining condition of success. The digital economy is now not only a narrow industry, as it has been seen before, but also an indispensable and inevitable part of the success of all sectors. [[15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, This is supported by the data you have presented. I would like to confirm that the infocommunication sector accounts for around 12% of the total gross domestic product, but the sector also has a significant spill-over effect. There is no other sector that I believe would have such a strong impact on the other sectors of the national economy. Honourable Congressman, We should mention and say, we should mention employment, where about 170,000 people work directly in the sector, representing more than 4 percent of the total workforce. However, this number does not include the number of jobs created in other sectors thanks to the digital economy. If we take this into account, as experts say, it employs about 400 thousand people in total the digital economy, which now accounts for about 15 percent of workers. Honourable Congressman, You can remember it, we remember it, we started the program in 2014. By 2018, we will make the super-fast internet available to all households. By 2020, we will first provide training for 100,000 people, then 100,000 people, so we will provide training opportunities for digital skills. Obviously, we're talking about people who, by the way, can't get this under market conditions. We eliminate the shortage of IT professionals, which, according to industry estimates, accounts for about 10,000 people in Hungary. We are launching development programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, which will increase the competitiveness and efficiency of Hungarian businesses, and in three years we will help nearly 300 companies to reach foreign markets in this area. In answer to your question, honourable Member, the industrial revolution in the digital economy is economic growth and job creation. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to say this, because it is important, going back to last week's conference in Budapest, that the successful event was not only Hungary's, but obviously also the success of all participants. I would like to tell you that, at the initiative of the Hungarian Government, we have included an open day in the programme: we have opened up the opportunity for nearly a thousand young Hungarians to participate in this event without any charge, which has also contributed to the success. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-82	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-10-19-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I also believe that digital technology is worth an investigation through important entrepreneurial glasses, because I believe that if all businesses make use of the opportunities provided by digital technology, these methods, this is an opportunity for them to advance their productivity, their increased sales, their development in the field of the economy and gain experience in the field of online trading, which will help them to develop and develop their economic development. I thank the government for its support for this, and I accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Csaba Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What will happen to you, City Park? It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2015-10-19-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The City Park was built 200 years ago as the world's first planned public park, a planned public park that is available to everyone at any time. To this day, this nearly 100-acre area is not only a favourite park for the metropolitan people, but also for the visitors, where tens of thousands of people walk, relax and walk dogs every day. The Liget was created 200 years ago by our ancestors from communion, for the benefit of the public. Two years ago, Parliament passed a law with record speed in a few days, under which Városliget was handed over to the later established Városliget Zrt. for 99 years into free asset management. The real goal quickly emerged: the Liget was chosen as the site of a gigantic construction, where they imagined the new museum district. The planned museum district was estimated at HUF 140-150 billion at the time. From the beginning, the professional and civil opponents of the project, Liget Budapest, have been trying to argue for the preservation of the public park, and there have been serious plans for the exploitation of existing buildings, for brownfield investments and for the protection of green surfaces. Perhaps thanks to these, instead of the originally designed building monstrums, the idea is different now. However, the government continues to ignore the views of the people who live here. This spring, Zugló's municipality adopted a decision in which it declared its commitment to maintain its original public park function, which is why it supports any government intention to renew the park, agrees with the restructuring of transport, the renovation of existing museums, but does not agree with the construction of new buildings. Therefore, he asked the Government of Hungary to carry out the planned construction project on a site that does not involve a reduction in the green surface area and changes in the landscape nature of the 200-year-old City Park. Before that, a year earlier, we presented a parliamentary resolution proposal on the rescue of the City Park, but this was not even included in the series of objects at the time. At that time, we proposed that the museum district be implemented not in the City Park, but at an empty location in the capital, such as an area outside of use near the Western Railway Station. Two weeks ago, news came out that Sándor Demján's idea of a major contractor was that the museum district could be transferred to the rust zone at Nyugati Railway Station, and the government seems to be a partner in this. The investment carried out in this way, running alongside the Liget project, or triggering it in part or fully triggering it, could cost HUF 55-60 billion. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Honourable Secretary of State whether the Government supports the relocation of the museum district to the area next to the Western Railway Station. What about the renewal of City Park? What about Project Liget? And is Városliget Zrt. any longer needed as a trustee? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-19-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-19-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If this had been the position of the city leaders of Budapest and the government many hundred years ago, honourable Member, we would not have had a Museum of Fine Arts or a Kunsthalle, there would not have been a Vajdahunyad castle in Városliget, and it would not have been possible to give examples, let us say, that there would not be a zoo in Budapest today, because on the basis of these arguments all of them and even the Heroes' Square could have been prevented if someone had accepted it, but fortunately, the leaders of Hungary and Budapest did not think so. Városliget itself is a public area with at least a dual function, since it has the park character, the possibility to spend the green surface, recreation, leisure time, and on the other hand, the cultural function is still in it, if we look at the Castle of Vajdahunyad, the Kunsthalle, the Museum of Fine Arts at the same time, both are organically linked to the City Park. This is not just a park, but it has always been part of the City Park, the Liget cultural function, which is why it is important to develop both during every development, when we think about the City Park. I have answered you several times, and others here in Parliament about the City Park, which is why you know very well that there will be more green surfaces at the end of the development than there are now, since there are buildings, which are inherited primarily from socialism or otherwise left here, where green areas may once again be in place, or sections of roads, which are now concreted parts of the City Park that can become at least partially green. It's enough to think about the area of the Parade Square, the Hungexpo office building or the Petőfi Hall, which are no longer the wedges of the City Park. By linking two failed socialist thoughts, he thinks something positive can come out. In 20 years, the capital led by MSZP-SZDSZ allowed the City Park to get worse and worse, as it did not develop green surfaces there, there was no more green surface by an inch during the time that the MSZP was in power next to Gábor Demszky in the capital. And likewise one of the stains of socialist governance is the miscarriage that has been raised in relation to the government district. Mixing these two failures, believe me, wouldn't be a success. However, what the government is doing is successful: the large-scale development of the zoo, the renewal of the Romanian Hall of the Museum of Fine Arts, which has already started, and with further expansion of the green surface and the creation of museums, will continue on the originally planned site, as the government has agreed in an earlier schedule. On the other hand, the socialists are using a rather double speech, because while you are here in Parliament saying that green spaces are needed - you are leading the Zugló MSZP - you have tabled to the body of representatives an amendment at a municipal meeting, in which the local MSZP, whose, if I am aware, you are the president of, I quote, would have taken out the announcement of the development and protection of the public area. [[15.20]] How is it possible that the Zugló socialists would remove the development and protection of public green spaces from the public tasks of the local government, and you would demand more green spaces here in Parliament, referring to the Zuglós? I think it also shows that the socialists represent everything in weeks and months, so this kind of criticism on your part, I think, after this socialist motion, is not credible. But I'd like to assure you that Városliget Zrt. It will not only be responsible for development, but it will continue to maintain the Liget, and it is a good sign of the government's attention that we are already spending twice as much on maintaining the Liget, protecting the green surfaces as we did a few years ago. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Next year's budget will include a further pace of development. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-88	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-10-19-89	Thank you, Mr. President. No, I'm afraid I can't accept it. And I ask the Secretary of State to read exactly that motion, and then he will be able to interpret it. That's not what you said. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: About what? Let's hear it. What's it about?]] He didn't answer one question, so we can't reassure tens of thousands of people who go to City Park every day. There is only one person to be reassured by this, Városliget Zrt., who thanks you, is fine, can continue to spend hundreds of millions of dollars, but not what you should be, because even if you try to refer here to the fact that the Liget is renewed, one square meter has not been renewed in recent years. There have been no playgrounds, no sports fields promised, no toilets created, no trash bins renewed, no new street furniture has been put up since then, and the often promised running circuit has not been completed to this day, not to mention dog runners, bicycle roads. So there's nothing going on in the Liget except that Városliget Zrt. You're free to spend the public money you have access to. So I can't accept that answer, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-19-90	Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 97 yes, 33 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, So you steal: Fidesz corruption around the cash registers. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2015-10-19-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Mobile Data Ltd. a short but more meaningful history means one of the veterinary horses of the entire current system. The company was founded on 20 December 2012, but the date of its establishment is more than interesting, we could say that it is suspicious, as this is very close to the date of publication of the regulation on online cash registers. There are two circumstances worth learning about at this company. One is a rather complex circle of persons, a range of personal mergers, and the other is an increase in income of amazing size, which is very rare in the economy, in a short period of time, and an increasing rate of taxed, net, post-tax profits. In fact, this company has contracted with the State to secure the transfer of data between NAV and online cash registers with a SIM chip. But let's see how interesting these personal interactions are. Last year, the majority ownership of this company was transferred to István Garancsi, who was undoubtedly Orbán's patron. So the buyer is Mr Garancsi, while the salesman is a young man named Kornél Pap, who is a friend of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's son-in-law. You could say it's a coincidence, but at least I think it's suspicious. At this time, please, the brother of the Prime Minister's son-in-law is the head of the IT department of the NAV, and his boss is Ferenc Vágújhelyi, who has an excellent relationship and a sport-friendly relationship with István Garancsi. with his other founder, Gábor Hauser. However, if that were not enough, since we can say why it would be a problem if someone belonged to the Prime Minister's circle of friends, acquaintances and relatives, perhaps belonging to his son-in-law's circle of friends; of course, this alone does not constitute corruption, but it is very interesting that these companies can soar to an amazing extent. And that this is Mobil Adat Kft. What business success has been achieved, let's look at it in the light of the figures: In 2013 the income of this company was only HUF 89 million. In 2014, this rose to 1,500 million, or 1.5 billion. In 2013, the company's post-tax profit is HUF 1 million 300 thousand and HUF 226 million in 2014. In 2013, this company could not pay a single HUF dividend, but in 2014 it had already paid 220 million, of which nearly HUF 200 million was struck by the hand of Viktor Orbán's loyal arms bearer, his distinguished friend, István Garancsi. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to clarify without hesitation, to clarify what is behind these amazing business successes, what is it capable of, what is the company that increases its revenue to this extent and its net profit after tax. Do you not consider it transparent, astonishing, and outrageously impertinent that, almost without exception, only friendly, buddy companies linked to the Prime Minister take the municipal and state investments and state funds? I'm looking forward to your pointless reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-93	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As the faction leader has promised, the rightful corruption attack will continue towards the government and the Fidesz people, but will continue without any specifics. As much as you've said names and company names, as much as you've said you've signed a treaty with the state, first of all, that's not what we're going to find out about this corruption. It is not corruption yet that a company's turnover increases by means of a state-owned transformation of legislation, as a result of the creation of a public market. As by the way, let's say in your family, if agricultural subsidies are growing from one year to the next, it doesn't mean that your family has had corruption. The mention of these words, however, is that to his son-in-law's circle of friends, the boss of his son-in-law's brother's brother's boss's fellow sport friend, the founder of his interests, you told him that this was not corruption yet. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] As proof of corruption, he said that the turnover of a company, which provided a unique and extraordinary service in Hungary, did this in addition to in the market, because there are three other companies competing and competing for this, and they have become part of the market. In fact, the design of the online cash register is unique in Europe, the design of the cash register itself, and 34 companies have been able to produce it and sell it to 70 people, but the mobile connection service requires a particularly high technical requirement. Few people today are qualified for this service in Hungary, but I would like to emphasise once again that the company you mentioned is suitable in the market. I think that if you have a real desire for corruption in this matter, [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] , Accusation - Desire and Accusation (Fairness.) - It's not enough to mention sports-friendly relations and not enough to highlight a company whose economic performance has increased. If you are aware of any violation or offence, make it public, or you should go to the authorities in accordance with the oath of your representatives and prove that there has indeed been corruption or a crime. But first, I suggest you and you ask Béla Kovács. [[Defiance. Incoming: Poor Béla!]] Who did not commit corruption may have done something far more serious [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] because, let's say, he betrayed his country, served his country, and the European Union grants his immunity. I think that they should first discuss what Béla Kovács, their own party partner, did in Hungary, and then, after they have clarified the activities of their own representative and whether the charges against him are true, then attack the government in Hungary, against pro-government politicians without any evidence and knowledge and knowledge of any evidence and facts in corruption cases. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.30]]
u2015-10-19-94	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-10-19-95	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, You can't accept nothing, that wasn't an answer! By the way, I congratulate the Secretary of State, he has had a hard time, but he has unraveled the four minutes, somehow resolved not to have to give any meaningful answers to the questions. On the other hand, leave Béla Kovács alone, honourable Fidesz Members [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of Fidesz.]] They scratch in pain like flea dogs, they don't know what to say! [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Béla Vovács is accused of non-corruption, Béla Kovács stands before the investigation. [[Noise, uproar in the ranks of Fidesz. L. Simon László: Spying, treason!]] Béla Kovács is ahead of the investigations; otherwise, he is not suspected of an act against Hungary, of an act against European Union interests - the two are not the same. But if the Union is your country, then, on your soul, it is a Freudian saying. On the other hand, let me tell you, Mr. Secretary, because this is where you tried to insult me personally or my family; this has a great tradition in Fidesz, you are not the first to taste us, but it is bad for everyone who is wrong about these hunting fields. [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of Fidesz.]] You're welcome to check it out, we're ready for it, and on the other hand, Mr. Secretary of State... [[Noise, interruptions.]] I'm asking for a time-out, Mr. President, and a warrant for the guards, because I can't give you a proper answer.
u2015-10-19-96	Congressman, please continue.
u2015-10-19-97	I can't really answer because there's so much noise.
u2015-10-19-98	I expect the Member's reply: do you accept the answer or not?
u2015-10-19-99	Mr. President, I told you, but I've been kidnapped for at least 30 seconds. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-10-19-100	Congressman, allow me to lead the meeting. Thank you.
u2015-10-19-101	I don't accept, I don't accept the answer.
u2015-10-19-102	I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-10-19-103	They're even stealing time! [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] This is unprecedented! They're stealing my time! [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of Fidesz. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-104	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members to ensure the order of the sitting. From what I understand, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[The Foreman of Novak: He felt it well! He sensed it with his ears!]] Dear Parliament, Since Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 27 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What you have cooked, eat! It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2015-10-19-105	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, What you've cooked, eat it. - says the Hungarian proverb. As is unfortunately well known, the share of children with health problems increases year after year in Hungary due to poor eating habits and a low-mobility lifestyle. There are two basic pillars for maintaining our health: good nutrition and regular exercise. None of them can be replaced by the other. Nutrition is as important as sports. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that our tongue knows a lot of words for food. Health is the state of total physical, mental and social well-being. If our diet is not balanced enough, varied enough, it can lead to a reduction in our physical performance. Because of a poor diet, we can become tired, irritable, moody, and in the long run we can get sick. After the introduction of everyday physical education, our children's health is also served by the new feeding program that came into force from 1 September 2015. The undisclosed aim of the new mass catering is to get used to healthy diets and, as a result of this, to avoid them as adults, the cardiovascular problems, which are currently considered to be a population disease in our country. I'll finish my speech, because long sausages and short sermons are good. On this basis, I would like to ask the Minister what feedback is available on the menu reform. How does the Ministry promote a healthier meal for students, in view of the above, how does the budget for children's meals change, how many children can receive free reform meals? Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-19-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we look around a kindergarten or a school today, we can see that one in four or one in five children is already overweight. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: More Members!]] I'm sure two or three out of ten kids are already struggling with weight. And if we look among adults, even here in Parliament, then we can see that six out of ten people are already struggling with weight problems, in Hungarian: they have excess weight. This is one of the reasons why cardiovascular diseases in Hungary restrict their own life opportunities for many people after a certain age. Diabetes, high blood pressure, may all be the result of overweight or poor diet or excessive salt intake, and this may affect the age of everyone, may occur sooner, or may not enjoy their full freedom in their last years, since these diseases affect their options. Therefore, as you said, Mr President, either proper nutrition or movement can help to overcome these situations. So far, more has happened, as we have not only created coverage for health wage increases by introducing the potato tax, but we have also tried to reduce products containing most artificial substances or even health additives. Our radical legislation on tobacco control has also been able to greatly reduce tobacco purchases or the development of addiction. The introduction of everyday physical education in schools helps to get used to physical activity as a daily, natural thing during school, and to find the sport that you can practice throughout your life, for decades. If you look at these in a uniform way, it is in this picture, in this picture of public health, that from 1 September this year everyone is now receiving healthy diet foods in crèches, kindergartens or elementary schools. It is also important to get used to what this taste is like, what these foods are like. Many people in Hungary today are willing to pay even more money, a huge industry was built to buy healthy food, various books and literatures are born about it, which have more or less professional basis, but a lot of people pay for food that is said to be healthy from a scientific point of view. We can now guarantee these dishes to everyone who is in kindergarten, kindergarten. Reducing the salt content has already brought increased use of fresh green spices. A lot of people used convenience products, soup powders, from which the food was made. It won't be possible now. Much more vegetables have to be used, much more fruit has to be given to children, much more milk products have to be given to children, much more fish food has to be given. Perhaps few of these people know that 40 percent of the children went through the public catering system for up to 8-10 years without ever having met fish food during school meals. We have also introduced these, and we are trying to ensure that everyone has much more varied diets, fewer E supplements and much more fresh, healthy food. I don't think the long-term public health benefits of this need to be long-term. We have repeatedly pushed the deadline, precisely to give enough time to prepare for both kitchens, municipalities and service providers. We brought 10,000 flyers to schools, educational establishments, 7,000 posters, press conferences, and make kitchen technology special. In the field of food science, we have developed educational backgrounds, we will also provide a collection of recipes illustrated by photographs to everyone; and we must not in turn say that it has grown three and a half times, from 92 thousand to 321 thousand. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the number of people who eat free in kindergartens and nurserys. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-108	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-109	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply, which made it clear that since September of this year, children will receive a healthier and more varied breakfast, lunch and snacks in crèches, kindergartens and school cafets. [[15.40]] It has also become clear that the family of 320,000 children does not have to pay for mass catering. On behalf of the KDNP faction, I would like to express my thanks to the government that after the 28 billion forints last year and 58 billion forints this year, 70 billion forints will be provided from the budget for free meals for children. I accept your reply with thanks. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-110	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-10-19-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Today we are talking about the fact that in Hungary it has become normal and customary for working Hungarian citizens to live with the harshest violations of labour and labour protection, which they have to suffer. My question is briefly and succinctly how long Fidesz will let this happen and how long it will assist in practically destroying the entire labour and labour protection institution system, how long it will be necessary to look at this, that in practice we will find in Hungary a lost employee whose rights are guaranteed, who will be able to do his job safely. Let's look at the statistics, because you may not even be able to argue with them: in 2014, almost three-quarters of employers found infringements. This was only 50 percent in 2010. The share of illegal workers was virtually 71 per cent in 2014 and 50 per cent in 2010 respectively. I would like to highlight your role in this process because it was a fully conscious process on the part of the government. In 2010, when you came to government in the previous term, you practically started to dismantle the institutional system, liquidate the national supervisory body, but the greatest destruction, the greatest destruction, occurred when the regional supervisors were melted into government offices. And do you know why? 300 inspectors were fired from their jobs. And that is why you, of course, have let those people who can control the process into the wind, that today, compared to 2010, half as many workers are affected by investigations. So you see, half as many workers are being checked, and the rate of infringements has already increased in a crazy way. So it's not easy, I think, to explain to your constituents what considerations were behind this, that you've destroyed this institutional system. I've been informed of the situation, and I'm pretty sure that it's been a long time since we've been able to talk about working ability, that the institutional system is practically maintaining the appearance of working ability, and if we look beyond work and look at work security, then I'm going to have to share a very disappointing number with you. Practically one third of workers were exposed to serious risks, and death-related accidents in the workplace have also escalated horribly. The problem is that there is no OSH strategy at all in Hungary, and I am asking why. Why does Fidesz not feel that it is important, nor does KDNP feel that Hungary has a workable OSH strategy? There is an EU requirement for this, and there is also the OSH Act, which directly obliges you to do so. What I can tell you is that when we asked for money to add a billion forints to improving the institutional system - because where we are, there used to be a budget of 7 billion for the institution, there is now 2.4 billion for control - I asked one billion for things to go a little better here. You voted against that. Then I ask you, what are you going to do to change this terrible situation?
u2015-10-19-112	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to reassure you that there will be a State Secretary for Public Employment at the next parliamentary meeting. I hope that he will answer your serious questions, your interpellations. However, I have to note that there is some contradiction about your interpellation, because in the first half of your interpellation, you have just reported how effective work is carried out by labour and labour protection inspectors, less but how effectively, because they reveal irregularities and shortcomings. After that, he was talking about a reduction in their numbers and their inability to do the work effectively, i.e. to detect irregularities. I suggest you set a course in an interpellation, either to whip one area or to whip the other, because apparently, these two seem to contradict each other. Moreover, in the field of occupational safety, I would just like to indicate that in 2009, before the establishment of the Orbán government, for example, this rate of infringement was 86.5 percent, which has fallen noticeably in recent years, but one fact is that the rate is still high. The proportion of workers affected by serious irregularities is also quite high, as it reaches one third. This is why the National Labour Protection Authority is taking nearly 100,000 measures every year to improve the working conditions of workers. A significant fine can also be imposed, as it can impose a OSH fine of more than HUF 100 million on employers who commit serious irregularities. He is ill aware that the number of fatal work accidents has increased, as it has decreased in the first half of 2015, and this is also true of work accidents that have healed for more than three days. As regards the lack of a OSH strategy, in 2001, the first Orbán government created this, which, unfortunately, was not implemented later by the subsequent governments. I can tell you that there is indeed a high rate of irregularities in labour inspections, but this is also a positive trend in terms of the 2015 numbers and controls. What I can tell you is that the number of inspections carried out in the field of labour and occupational safety is also in place at international level. I must reject your criticisms of the transformation, since on the one hand, you have reached a much stronger and higher level, two departments of the Ministry of National Economy manage the professional management of OSH and labour inspections on the basis of national OSH policy, i.e. direct ministry management. In addition, as you mentioned, the metropolitan and county government offices perform such tasks, more than 400, so it is very difficult to compare costs. I can say that despite the organisationally changed circumstances, this is the government's activity in an effective international comparison. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-114	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-10-19-115	Secretary of State, I was genuinely surprised, I didn't know there was going to be a secretary of state for public employment, and I definitely don't know what kind of relationship he'd have with work and labour protection, but in any case we might have received a new piece of information. Dear Secretary of State, If there's an independent authority that I'm gonna turn into a department of ministry, I'm gonna deprive that authority of its licenses, its independence, and I'm gonna degrade it to a department of ministry. That's a problem. You say there's a contradiction. Well, Mr Secretary of State, if fewer inspectors find more infringements, then one conclusion may be that the situation may have deteriorated. Well, that's what Fidesz needs to change. That's the job. Instead, you wash, but I mean, I mean, it's actually a face toaster. Dear Secretary of State, Let's look at the sanctions. So far, you've had eight categories of fines in front of you, and now you've only got four categories. It may not be a coincidence that in 2010 it was still over 3 billion, which came in out of fines, we are now under 500 million. But you know what? Let's talk about the point. Let's talk about the fact that Fidesz-KDNP is not interested in the fate of the working Hungarian people. You have set up an assembly plant in Hungary, in which every working Hungarian for you, for Fidesz, is a device that you can replace at any time. I absolutely refuse to do that.
u2015-10-19-116	Madam Congresswoman, I would like to ask your answer. Will you accept the Secretary of State's answer? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: No.]] Dear Parliament, Congresswoman has indicated that she will not accept the State Secretary's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 103 yes, 32 votes not, without abstention. [[15.50]] Dear Parliament, Attila Gelencsér, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. The Hungarian economy reached the pre-crisis level? It's an address. Congressman Attila Gelencsér shall take the floor.
u2015-10-19-117	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, Following the excellent performance of last year, the growth of the Hungarian economy can continue this year and next year. Since 2013, the economy has evolved and its structure has been increasingly balanced, and last year it has increased by 3.6 percent, making Hungary the third largest growth in Europe. It is clear from this that Hungarian reforms are working. Thanks to previous successful negotiations, Hungary will receive a total of HUF 12,000 billion of EU funds in the 2014-2020 programming period. Despite the fact that certain political forces are calling for sanctions against our country, the government recently agreed with the Commission on another aid of 34 billion. The government is committed to spending at least 60% of development and investment aid on economic development and job creation, which is reflected in the 2016 budget as well. The period 2014-2020 will change the country substantially. In its recent September rapid report, KSH confirmed that the Hungarian industry is in good shape, the volume of industrial production increased by 3.4 percent in July and 6.7 percent in the first seven months of the year, which is well above the average of 2.8 percent and 3 percent of the EU. The Hungarian industry is particularly flexible and shows a healthy structure of growth that both exports and domestic sales have expanded. Out of the 13 underwear of the manufacturing industry, the statisticians recorded an increase compared to the same month of the previous year. It has been proven that foreign analysts already acknowledge the country's performance. A few days ago, the IMF amended the growth forecast of the Hungarian economy by 0.3 percentage points up this year, thus raising it to 3 percent and 2.3 percent for 2016 to 2.5 points, which support government prognosis. The success of the Hungarian model also occurs in the number of jobs: the number of people with jobs increased by 208 thousand compared to 13; the employment rate reaching 61.8 percent is the best result of the past 16 years. The number of people employed among the EU Member States has increased to the third largest extent in Hungary, and in terms of the number of people active, Hungary has made the biggest increase of Visegrád countries. In Hungary, more than 4 million people have never worked since the change of regime. The number of people employed has increased by nearly half a million since the government shift in 2010. Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, the government's economic policy has been focused on increasing employment, improving the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses, and balanced economic growth. I ask: how does the stable and lasting growth of the economy help to ease the burden on Hungarian families? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-118	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-119	Thank you for asking. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Indeed, the country was in a difficult situation, as domestic GDP fell by nearly 7 percent in 2009, and in this situation the Fidesz-KDNP Association had to take over the country for governance. Many really acknowledge the country's performance over the past five years. The Commission of the European Union, the IMF, the OECD and the credit rating agencies, are talking more and more positively about Hungary and making forecasts. But indeed, what could have caused Hungary to come out of such a crisis, and now GDP is increasing beyond the European average in Hungary, employment is increasing as a European leader? How is it possible to reduce public debt as measured by GDP, that there is essentially no inflation in Hungary and real wages, real incomes are increasing? Obviously, we could talk about this for a long time, maybe four minutes isn't enough, but it's enough to make one or two big decisions in the last five years. The first was the repayment of the IMF loan. I believe that Hungary has become independent, and the Hungarian government could make its economic decisions on its own. The next big question was whether we would be able to speed up the drawdown of EU funds and thus increase investment. Our answer was yes to that, too. The next important issue is the success of the employment expansion actions mentioned by you, the success of the job protection action plan, the transformation of the relief system, the conversion of the contribution allowance - both for employers and for workers. The result is the increase in employment you mentioned, which now exceeds 4.2 percent, but we must also include measures to whiten the economy. Two of them emerge: the introduction of online cash registers and the launch of the EKAER, which had a significant impact on the budget. It is important to mention the rescue of foreign exchange-credit families, the completion of the forinting, which has also significantly reduced the exposure of households and the exposure of the Hungarian state. They all had a positive impact on the Hungarian economy. But we also need to include the reduction in the cost of the household's consumption, the increase in the money, and the increase in consumption, the increase in retail turnover, and all of this has encouraged growth in the economy, but also in the budget. Of course, this includes what the government has done in the area of income growth and taxation: on the one hand, a significant increase in family tax incentives and, on the other hand, a reduction in personal income tax, which has also led to an increase in income and an increase in consumption. You could name the decisions, the good examples; this is the direction the government would like to continue in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-10-19-121	Dear Secretary of State, The break-out from the IMF really meant independence for Hungary, the payment of EU funds has indeed accelerated, employment has indeed improved significantly, the transformation of aid has really improved the situation of families, the contribution benefits have helped a lot of people in this country, the solution to the situation of foreign exchange credentials has really taken a heavy burden off families. The reduction in premiums cannot be mentioned in this line, the change in taxation, which has improved the income situation, is also one of the positive events, and the increase in retail turnover is also one of the positive events; so with all of this, Mr Secretary of State, thanking you for your reply, I accept it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-122	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Why is the government delaying the opening of next year's wage negotiations? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2015-10-19-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can start with a question right away, and it's about when the future wage negotiations are going to take place. The only reason I can ask you this is because the 2016 budget has already been adopted and these wage negotiations should have a clear impact on the 16th budget. If I look at the social partners, trade unions and their goals, it is obvious that this story is not only about wage increases, but also about trying to create a situation in which hundreds of thousands of people leave this country, especially those who can produce returns as active workers in the country. [[16.00]] Obviously, the goal is to achieve tangible wage increases as far as possible - the minimum wage level in which the minimum wage is worth five thousand forints less in five years - and, of course, not to raise its gross weight and increase the burden of contributions, not to benefit the government, but to be basically the people. And obviously, strengthening work peace is also an important task in developing these wage negotiations. Some people understand this, there are examples at retail level, but the vice president of the National Association of Hungarian Industrialists also says today that there is no way to stop the processes that I am talking about without a moderate wage increase or an increase in salary. What I want to ask you is, when are you going to end the process that you've been doing for the sixth year of five years? I mean, people aren't the beneficiaries of the story that goes on in terms of wages, wages, but the ones, the buddies, the pereputty, many others, who, if any, can get a monthly income of HUF 5 million, while the minimum wage affects a part of this one-fifty. What I want to ask you is when you intend to create a situation for the benefit of the people. I will give you an example: in 2005, when we reached agreement with the social partners and started the process from 2006, you know, remember, that's when the minimum wage for skilled workers entered the system. So when are you going to create a situation where these wage negotiations will result in an impact on the real number of employees in the competitive sector, a growing trend and a moderate surplus of income for people? And my two simple questions are: when are these wage negotiations going to take place, and is it expected that these wage negotiations will result in, say, the net of the minimum wage, the amount received by the hand, reaching the minimum wage? I would like to ask the Secretary of State for a concrete answer to these two simple questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-19-124	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I thought on his name day he might be a little calmer and calmer, because this is a holiday for you, which I congratulate you on. [[Defiance.]] But it seems that my hope has not been real, because you are again attacking the government for something that is completely unfounded. It is unfounded, because if this government has nothing to be ashamed of, we think that it is just measures and decisions for people, for increasing people's income. I have also told you in the previous interpellation, but I repeat to you that the government has been able to deliver significant results in its past five years of activity both in terms of increasing the number of employees and in terms of increasing the minimum wage, increasing the guaranteed minimum wage and increasing incomes in a two-way way. On the one hand, the reduction of the rent, which is a government decision and, on the other hand, what it makes in the area of taxation, as the already mentioned increase in family allowances and the reduction of the key to personal income tax, which will continue on 1 January, as it will decrease from 16 percent to 15 percent, so everyone's income growth is already guaranteed. There is no need to be ashamed of them either in the case of employees or in wage negotiations, we believe that even in the case of workers' advocates of interest, and more than that, they acknowledge these results. It is natural that there is a conflict of interest between the three sides, because the employee always wants to get more income, and this interest, this intention, I believe, is respected by both the government and the employers. I would like to reassure you that we do not want to define next year's wages as unilateral government measures in the future, but rather in negotiations and consultations, taking into account, once again, employee interests, but, of course, to the extent that the performance of the Hungarian economy allows. From the fact that the budget has now been adopted earlier, it has been jointly established by the members of the competitive sphere and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government, that the negotiations will not start earlier, that other factors affecting the economy will also be taken into account, and that, of course, they will sit down and agree on these issues only after the year. I think that the agreement will be reached, as it has been in recent years. It is therefore very important that we do not want and wish for a unilateral decision, but that, in consultation and in compromise, next year's wages will be created in Hungary during the wage negotiations. The government does not want to stop this process, and we will continue this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-19-126	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-10-19-127	Mr. Secretary, you don't have a name day, but God bless you. Speaking of facts, it is the National Tax and Customs Office who has shown that every worker in Hungary, one in three of every working person, is in a state and position to earn a minimum wage or less. You have to know that from tax returns, that's what it is. He also knows that with a minimum wage of five thousand HUF less, people are in their hands when they pay them the minimum wage. You don't have to look at the gross, no, not even the net, but what the minimum wage is worth when you go to the store and buy it, while, as I said, you give your friends five million forints of unspeakable salaries. Look, the only thing you need to take on is that until you get to the minimum wage of 100,000 forints net in hand, you didn't do anything, you just took it away from people, because there's only one beneficiary of the extra contributions: you, the government, and not the people. Well, that's what they should change. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-10-19-128	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:. This is how you steal: Fidesz corruption in the energy sector. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2015-10-19-129	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As the MET energy trading company has been stuffed with government help and public financial resources, it has been in the media for months, but it is worth recalling briefly what happened. In 2010, by bleeding out the mandatory take-over system, the district heating companies were pushed to the brink of bankruptcy, and this obvious political failure, which would have been caused by the increase in district heating charges, was being counterbalanced by cheap natural gas, which they would have obtained from elsewhere than from the strategic stock. Yes, but this stock needs to be replaced, and the fact that the Western European gas exchange was able to purchase gas much lower than the Russian gas supply agreement, i.e. the possibility of profit. And as it usually happens in the last 25 years, where the opportunity for profit appears, there's a government-wide business that's coming up to skim this profit. It was no different in this case either. What did the government do? He authorised MVM Parnter Zrt. to obtain a significant capacity on the Austrian-Hungarian gas pipeline without tender, and brought gas purchased from the Swiss subsidiary of MET through that gas pipeline to Hungary and sold it to MET, which MVM Partner Zrt. He made almost nothing, but MET made tens of billions. This is usually seen from the documents that have been sued since then. [[16.10]] The story is therefore known, in several cases it can be proven that the MVM Partner sold natural gas to MET at a lower price than the purchase price. Thus comes the question, to which no answer has been answered: how is it that a privately-owned offshore company has such a profit to the government? However, if we look at the ownership background of the group, we will immediately find out how the boots got on the table or how the goose got on the table to make us even more stylish. After all, the name of György Nagy from Hajdú-Bét with the same name can be found in the background of the company group as the owner of the football team in Székesfehérvár, which has already been mentioned today, is István Garancsi. Orbán has given us the, the garnish, for a high profit here. If we look at the sire system of the last 25 years, it is quite clear how the government prefers the companies close to it. But how Fidesz's favourite gas trading company became one of Hungary's coolest businesses in a few years, I would like to get the answer from the Secretary of State. In any case, this story also strongly supports Jobbik's long-standing view that the economic interests of the right- and left-wing governments of the last 25 years are in the background. They put billions in their pockets, forming a collective set, regardless of whether the government that is being regressed is orange or carnation. And this system will be brought to an end by the Jobbik government once and for all, proclaiming zero tolerance against corruption. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-19-130	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-131	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There is a free market model in the Hungarian gas sector. The licensees may carry on their activities in accordance with the laws of the natural gas sector and the operating permit issued by the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, according to their own business and their own decisions. The principle of freedom of civil law, whether or not certain legal entities conclude, with whom and with which contracts are concluded, also applies in the natural gas industry. The Gas Security Stockpiling Act fixed the security stock at 1200 million cubic metres in 2006 with continuously rising gas consumption trends. In the following years, mainly as a result of the economic crisis, Hungarian domestic gas consumption decreased significantly to around two thirds, which also justified a reduction in the level of security. The Parliament therefore authorised the Minister responsible for energy policy to set the justified level of security stock in a regulation and the cross-border capacity to restock the stock. Pursuant to the Ministerial Regulation on the extent, sale and replacement of natural gas security stocks, the universal service user, district heating customers and public sector consumers were sold to preserve their security of supply and to preserve the competitiveness of district heating for a specified quantity of natural gas from the natural gas supply to the legally designated initiated part of the natural gas supply. The natural gas stocks purchased under the Regulation had to be recovered by entry into storage, and the beneficiaries were therefore entitled to commit capacity at the entry point of the Austrian or Ukrainian cross-border pipelines in order to be enforceable. MVM Partner Zrt. the quantities released have been used transparently for the purposes set out in the Regulation, offered directly to users by means of open tenders and indirectly to traders supplying them. As a result of the tender, several Hungarian natural gas dealers were able to purchase from the freed natural gas supply, and all traders undertook to sell the purchased natural gas for the purposes set out in the regulation. According to the information provided by MVM, the capacity allocated but not used was offered to the natural gas trading companies for use for gas years completed in 12, 13 and 14 respectively. It started negotiations on capacity with two natural gas traders. By the way, this case, the contracts between MET and MVM were investigated by the National Bureau of Investigation in 2014 and 2015, and the procedure was terminated each time in the absence of a criminal offence. In the spring of 2015, the Metropolitan Court classified these contracts as public data, so their content is freely available. On the basis of this, I would like to conclude that MVM Partner Zrt. have always acted in accordance with the relevant legislation and internal rules. In the unexpected event that my fellow Member does not accept my reply, I ask that this House accept it. Thank you very much. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz, you got it. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-19-132	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-10-19-133	You know, Mr. Secretary, what we have in common in these cases is that the official explanation is always there, yet a name always appears among those who profit from these businesses. Now there is the name of István Garancsi, the owner of Viktor Orbán's favourite football team, and he is there in many other cases, and we have heard about a case today, and the press is talking about it seven times. If you wanted to avoid the appearance of corruption, you wouldn't be involved in businesses where the names of close or prime minister close to the government appear as beneficiaries. The government's entire fight against corruption and accountability is characterised by the fact that in 2010, you created a huge anti-corruption or accountability spectacle bakery, in which more bakers have turned over time than the amount of bread that was baked there. Finally, the only product of this spectacle bakery has become a huge failure that describes your accountability. This will also be waiting for the Jobbik government. Thank you very much. I don't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-19-134	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 106 yes, 39 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:.Privatisation in the banking sector as well. Why is Fidesz selling public property everywhere? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-10-19-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The government announced its intention to sell the state ownership of MKB and Budapest Bank within a few months. All of this after the state took over financial institutions in both cases at an inherently above market price. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán nationalised with his password announced in 2013 that Hungarian property should be over 50 percent in the domestic banking sector. Let's add that the Prime Minister's dream of obtaining the Bank of Budapest was fulfilled beyond last year, since the Hungarian banks had a two-thirds majority. The only problem is that the purchase price of Budapest Bank 200 billion was twice the market price. In addition, the Hungarian taxpayers lost massive hundreds of billions last December on the fact that the Hungarian state took over the bank of MKB filled with skeletons from Bavarian state-owned Bayern LB. That is why Markus Söder, Minister of Finance of Bavaria, opened champagne when they managed to get rid of MKB with a payment of only HUF 67 billion. Bajoran analysts calculated that they won 160 billion forints by getting rid of the bank that could be fixed for at least 220-250 billion forints. And now they're privatizing the public wealth of taxpayers' expensive money. Fidesz's privatization fever seems to be insufferable. This is also seen in the privatisation of agricultural land. It wasn't always like that. In the past, Fidesz, at least in terms of words, was against privatisation, the dispersal of public wealth, and very rightly criticised the privatisations of the 1990s. This thing is gone forever. The principle is that Fidesz no longer has a position on privatisation, or only one: the moon yard should benefit. Meanwhile, problems pile up. Corporate loans are now almost 30 percent smaller in real terms than in the years preceding the 2008 financial crisis. This does not help to maintain economic development and does not help small and medium-sized enterprises. Dear Secretary of State, A number of questions are raised here, but the main question is what causes this neoliberal privatization fever in the government. [[16.20]] How much does the nationalisation of the two banks cost the Hungarian taxpayers exactly? Do you even have any calculation for this? Why do you think that, as a result of privatisation, lending to support the development of the economy will increase, while you know that this is not caused by lack of capital or will, but by a lack of confidence due to permanent, unpredictable changes and arbitrary steps by the government? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-19-136	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As to your comment on the sale of land, I would like to say this. I'm not sure I understand your remark that you can see that in the fields. First, the land is sold by auction to Hungarian people, farmers, and at market value or above; that is, Hungarian land to Hungarian people, who cultivate it and market value. Let me get this straight. Having said that, from now on, its findings on the privatisation and nationalisation of the banking system are equally untrue. Exactly the earth's example proves that. He asked how much the nationalisation of the two banks cost the Hungarian taxpayers. Well, he told me that in his interpellation in summary, so I don't really understand why you're asking. I can't give you any other number than what you've told me. What I do not understand is: does LMP really not understand, if there is more lending in the economy, more lending in Hungary, and in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which is short of capital, if there is greater lending in the large business sector, does it not strengthen the economy, does it not mean that more jobs will be created for you, their turnover will be higher, their economic performance will be higher and their GDP will be higher? Life has shown that in the case of foreign currency lending, when the ownership rate of foreign banks and financial institutions was higher than 50 percent in Hungary, the negative impact on society on how non-human-centred lending was and did not take into account the interests of people in terms of increasing both the exchange rate and the interest burden. And the Hungarian government's desire to increase the proportion of Hungarian-owned banks is completely natural. If we look at the international examples, we see that in France, Greece, Germany, Sweden and other countries, there are over 90 percent of the domestic-owned banking system, the share of bank ownership. I think it is the right effort of the Hungarian government to increase this proportion. However, with regard to these purchases, we also made clear that the ultimate aim is not to involve the State in commercial market lending, but to re-establish these banks, regaining or increasing their role in the market, re-carrying them back into private ownership, re-carrying them back into the ranks of commercial banks, and to continue lending in a market-like and competitive manner for the benefit of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy. I think his criticism is that the government, not the lack of capital or the lack of will, is causing the lack of lending, it is not in its place, because the government is doing the right thing and is getting recognition of its current economic policy at international level, at European Union level, but now in Hungary, in terms of investor confidence. I also think that your decision to nationalise the banks first and then make them a commercial bank again is the right decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-138	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-10-19-139	I can't accept the answer. I would like to add two points to Mr Secretary of State's reply. One: the LMP believes that the task of a government is to increase public wealth and not to squander it. When the government buys property at a high price on taxpayers' money and then sells it at a low price, it is a bad farmer, whether it is incompetence or - and unfortunately this is more likely - to fatten up the lunar yard in public money. In addition, the fall of Széchenyi Bank of Töröcske shows what can be expected from the favorite oligarchs of Fidesz in terms of professional competence. The second point is that with this perfect neoliberal argument they support privatisation, while at other times the government is pleased with the role of protectors of national wealth. It also shows that there is no principle or economic policy considerations between nationalisations and the changing stages of privatisation.
u2015-10-19-140	I thank you, Congresswoman, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We're about to have our last interpellation today. Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. What are the secret affairs of the state which he claims to have done abroad with his own money? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2015-10-19-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I think it would have been a good thing if Minister had been able to answer this question in person, but as I see the state of the case, there will be plenty of opportunities for us to come back to this question. I am now asking you about the extremely expensive travels that János Lázár made in Switzerland and Italy in 2013. Since then, he has repaid the budget for HUF 2 million, according to his own statement. However, to date, the Hungarian public has not been answered about the purpose of these State travels. Even a lost trial was more likely brought by John Lazarus, but he would have to account for the details of his stay abroad as soon as possible. For a year, he refused to answer my written questions on the grounds that travels are related to the activities of the Information Office for Foreign Intelligence and therefore cannot provide information on them for reasons of national security. In view of this, however, it is very surprising that he refused to answer my questions of a technical nature as to whether or not classified information had been generated in connection with the travels and whether national security services had been involved in their organisation and conduct. This should have been the case if he had actually been abroad in matters relating to the role of the Information Office. A year's refusal to provide technical information on the organisation of roads raises the suspicion that travels actually served a different purpose, and this is further reinforced by the fact that later it recovered costs from its own money. Since then, I have received a reply from Minister in mid-October suggesting that there is no mention of the creation of classified information concerning his missions in Switzerland and Italy. I've been asking the Minister this question for a year now, and it's taken him a year to figure out whether or not such data came up. So here's my question, Mr. Secretary: if you've developed sensitive data from a national security point of view, why haven't they been classified? Then why didn't you think about this in advance when you were organizing your travels? And if there was no such information, why do they keep referring to the Information Office? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-10-19-142	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State L. Simon László. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[16.30]]
u2015-10-19-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In fact, the answer to your question was in there, so there's too much I won't be able to say to you. First of all, let us make it clear what was not much spoken about in the press, but Minister Lazarus was constantly attacked in connection with the travels, that in May 2014 Minister spent nearly HUF 2 million of his private assets on the financing of official roads. So the central budget was not charged with the costs of these journeys; it paid them. I also think it is important to mention this because in the newspaper articles and reports that mentioned these trips, and in which photographs of the hotels in which János Lázár occupied... - let us make it clear to everyone: he paid the cost of these trips and accommodations not with taxpayers' money, not with public money, but with his own money. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have very well summarized the event story that is actually generated by yourself by bombing Minister over and over again with questions. Indeed, on 12 October 2015 you were also answered to your last written question by Minister of Writing, which is on Parliament's website. I don't know too much about that and I don't want to add it. In any case, let us also make it clear here in this House that the Minister and the Prime Minister's Office have never formally stated, with the exception of the trip to England and London, that there would have been classified information on travels, including their preparation, organisation and conduct. Therefore, the question that you have formulated regarding classified information cannot be interpreted. [[In the notary seat, Györ Nándor Gúr replaced Dezső, the believer.]] In conclusion, I can say, Madam honourable Member, that if you continue to be so intensely concerned with this issue, you should contact Minister Lazarus personally. I wasn't in the delegation, I didn't accompany him, I don't know exactly who and what Minister Lazarus was talking about. It wasn't part of my duties as an official, thanks to God, Minister, that information wasn't even included. And if I knew of classified information, I would not be able to share it here, within the walls of Parliament, in accordance with my oath and the law. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-19-144	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-10-19-145	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not accept the answer because there are two things we can get used to from the government: when it comes to some delicate matter that is sensitive to you, it is either secret, or it is encrypted, or there was no one there, no one saw anything, nothing happened. These are the two versions, you can see that. Obviously, as the Minister for Information Affairs, János Lázár should be well aware of when to share certain information with the public and when to listen. In the event that, at the meeting of the National Security Committee, he publicly shared information about the activities of civil intelligence, which caused quite a scandal, that was the moment when he should have listened, Minister. I think these are the questions that I've been asking for a year and you have to answer. There's an absolute logical loop in the answer. So when he negotiates as a minister, it's basically public. If he were an employee of the Information Office, then, of course, this information would not be public, so if there had been significant information, they should have been classified, if not, he would not have been able to rely on civil intelligence. So, to this day, the questions remain. The point is that democratic rule of law would be a minimum requirement for both the Minister for Information and the Prime Minister's Office, of course, and this applies to everyone. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-19-146	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer, if that's what I'm getting. So, Honourable Parliament, I ask you, since you did not accept the reply of the Secretary of State, because you did not accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 41 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours 35 minutes, we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. Now for the immediate questions. I am ordering a moment of technical recess, with respect to my fellow Members, to remain in their seats now. One minute is what we have to wait for. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches, including, "Who are we waiting for?"]] Dear Parliament, As I indicated, thank you for your understanding, we will continue our work. We're going to talk about immediate questions. István Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why is it not important? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-147	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister! You should know that by selling state land assets, you are preparing to sell out national independence. If that's the case, I'd like to know why you're doing it. A few days ago, János Lázár said that the land must be sold because the land law will fall in Brussels, and then the foreigners will come and buy the Hungarian land. The fact is, however, that your government, if you will, is under no obligation to sell state land. If the state doesn't want to sell the land, the foreigners won't have this land. It's as simple as that. If the lands remain in government control, the sovereignty of Hungary will be strengthened. In contrast to the harmful effects of the common agricultural policy, a good rental system can help Hungarian farmers to farm on Hungarian soil so that as many people as possible have a livelihood in the countryside. After all, in this case, the state can prescribe the conditions under which land can be used, what tenants should do on it, how many people have to work on it. Social cooperatives can be delivered to the ground or a demographic land programme can be launched. Prime Minister! In the Netherlands, in principle, tens of millions of dairy cattle are kept in family farms, largely thanks to national land-use regulation, providing livelihoods for hundreds of thousands of people. In Hungary, there are only 200 thousand in a double area. There would be a place to grow if that was the goal. Prime Minister! Why do they give up living in the countryside under national jurisdiction and national conditions? Why doesn't that matter to you? Or is the clientele more important? The new owners only have to comply with the provisions of the common agricultural policy. Prime Minister! What guarantee can you give us that new landowners in a few years will not be able to sell the land they have acquired with great profit even to foreigners? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-10-19-148	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2015-10-19-149	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as the specifics are concerned, about 20 percent of all public land is sold, which I do not, by the way, have a maximum holding limit of 300 hectares, a 20-year ban on disposal and debiting, and the registration of state buy-back rights. So I think the answer to your question is here. However, there is also a more comprehensive question that you have touched on your question. I understand that you continue to think about things and state economies, but we don't. We believe that farmers should give the land, that the state should not engage in government-controlled agricultural activities, that it should be left to those who know how to do this, and who care about the fate of the land. Let's give the land to the farmers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-19-150	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-10-19-151	Prime Minister! I was talking about family farmers, and I was talking about Hungarian national sovereignty, which is that we should create work for people living in rural areas and villages. And as far as their 20 years are concerned, they're completely discredited. Land leases promised that there would be no tenants when they gave the land leases to their buddies and got caught. Yet, not two years have passed, and they will become owners. They promised to provide meaningful work for poor people in social cooperatives. Hundreds of millions have been removed instead of the prosperity of social cooperatives. [[16.40]] They promised to give the locals land leases, but in a criminal way, Tallai Secretary of State's buddies or your friend got to the land on the spot against the locals. Lázár's friend won five hundred Trafiks at the land contest in which Martin Bitay... [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] - at the trade fair where Márton Örs Bitay was the judge of the trade-options [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He is now the Secretary of State for the Lands.
u2015-10-19-152	Congressman...
u2015-10-19-153	Prime Minister, I know that they should be good Fidesz, as your pig agent, István Horváth, said.
u2015-10-19-154	Congressman, your time is up, thank you very much.
u2015-10-19-155	But you will be responsible for these.
u2015-10-19-156	Congressman, a minute to rejoinder. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2015-10-19-157	I suggest that, in order to regain control, you leave, there will be open auctions, look at them, and if you find anything wrong, come and tell us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-158	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. This is how you steal: Fidesz sabotage in the area of accountability. Congressman Gábor Vona has the floor.
u2015-10-19-159	Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, In my speech before today's agenda, I spoke about the fact that some of my fidesz acquaintances talk about how ashamed they are, how ashamed they are of the fact that their government is accompanied by so many corruption scandals and dirty affairs. They tend to defend themselves, by the way, or to excuse their position, because they respect you very much to say that this is so, unfortunately, but the Prime Minister is not aware of it, because if the Prime Minister knew about these dirty matters that are going on around him, he would eliminate them. Well, I'd like to believe that, Prime Minister, but I don't think so. I do not believe that, unfortunately, because every time the Parliamentary Group of Jobbik put a bill before Parliament that would minimize or eliminate corruption in certain areas, or even such proposals were made by the LMP, you and your fellow Members would constantly cross over and sweep them off the table. Such a proposal, for example, was when we proposed, a few weeks ago, that the statute of limitations on corruption committed by politicians should be inexorable. The Hungarian people rightly expect that if someone has done something dirty, they will be punished for it. It was also the same case when we suggested that there should be a mandatory propertyisation investigation at the end of each cycle, before all the Members of Parliament and all the members of the government. People also expect everyone to account for where their wealth is coming from. But I could also say that when we suggested publishing the family's declaration of property, it was also wiped out, Prime Minister. The question is why. Obviously, we're used to it, and I've been used to the fact that the Prime Minister hasn't answered these questions about corruption, or if he answers, it's some kind of fluffma, condescending, cynical response, or today we've learned about smith's gutting, which I'm sure you'll be able to choose from. But today, I asked my Fidesz acquaintances to watch the Prime Minister on TV, and to make sure with their own ears, with their own eyes, that your answer is what the Prime Minister says. With this in mind, Prime Minister, why do you and the Fidesz faction constantly sabotage corruption here in the Hungarian Parliament? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-160	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2015-10-19-161	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow Member, corruption We don't sabotage, we condemn corruption crimes, we don't accept it, and we will pursue it. Thank you, if you'll help us with that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-162	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-10-19-163	I didn't get an answer today either, Prime Minister, but I think that my Fidesz friends watching you on TV have received the answer that you are actually sabotaging corruption in Parliament. And the case of Quaestor has not even been mentioned, since neither you nor your fellow Members have yet said to this day whether there was a Fidesz Member who was fleeing money from Quaestor in the days before the indulging. None of them have answered that yet, Prime Minister. So I understand you, of course, when you give me these answers, because if we look at your environment, who are surrounding you, Andy Vajna, Butcher Lorince, Árpád Habony, then perhaps we can see why you have this stay. When I asked your fellow Members before today's agenda - you weren't here yet, Prime Minister - who would put their hands on these three men, Prime Minister, no one came forward for this opportunity. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So now I'm asking you, Prime Minister, for these three people who surround you, they're giving you advice on whether you'd set your hands on fire. Do you believe these people are clean people? Yes or no? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-164	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2015-10-19-165	I think that, before the Member asks such questions, he would have done well to answer one question, because it is a political scandal that a betterman's immunity will be suspended in the European Parliament after a decade, on the charge of espionage. It's never happened before. In a party that calls itself national, that's thoughtful in itself, but let's leave it for later. What is important here, however, is that the same Member, Béla Kovács, has paid the most financial support to your party. Before you and your fellow Members ask anyone anything, shouldn't you be the first to clarify where that money came from, what Jobbik had to do in return, and did this have anything to do with the suspicion of espionage? [[It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] Honourable Congressman, We're used to the fact that all party representatives read each other like an owl says to a sparrow, "big head." But to have an elephant talk about other people's trunks, there's something amazing about them.
u2015-10-19-166	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you see the Hungarian countryside from Supper? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-10-19-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you with respect the next question. I'm really happy to hear your speeches a lot, because with some national sentiment, I realize you're saying nice things. The problem is that whether you talk about corruption or about the Hungarian countryside, I always experience in practice that opposite things happen, as you say. That's what I wanted to draw your attention to when I contacted you personally in a letter. [[Interview in the ranks of Fidesz: Personally in a letter?]] I'd like to draw your attention to why your Ministry of Agriculture is completely incompetent and why you're taking the country's agriculture in a different direction than you say. Obviously, I'd like to ask you, if the statistical facts say anything other than what you say, then what's the answer to that? The Prime Minister regularly says, in line with my opinion, that 80% of family farms, small and medium-sized holdings and 20% of large farms are desirable. At the same time, you should see that the KSH data is now quite clear: between 2000 and 2010 40 percent of these farms, which employ less than five people, have ceased to exist. This is the period 2000-2010. On the other hand, in the period 2010-2013, another 15 percent disappeared, which means that the disappearance of farms under five in Hungary has accelerated, accelerating the farms where families are involved in the cultivation of these activities. Obviously, I have listened to my colleague Gábor Harangozó's question here, and he says that if in your opinion it is right that this can be prevented by owning the land of state, then why has it been tied down for ten years and twenty years in the last three years. Why didn't they do this in 2011-2012? What's the answer to the first 20 years of this, and then they came up with the good idea of changing it? What is the guarantee that the 15 percent reduction in the number of farmers below five between 2010 and 2013 will not go further towards these steps? I'd be honored if you'd answer. Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
u2015-10-19-168	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will answer the question. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2015-10-19-169	Congressman, I can't give you any guarantees. I can offer you the consideration of common sense. We have launched a agricultural policy, we have indeed said that the income and income from the Hungarian land should remain in Hungary and go to the farmers. The first step was to announce that 80% of land and land use should be allocated to small and medium-sized owners, and that in any case the main estate should not exceed 20 percent. If the foreign ratio decreases in the meantime, we won't shed crocodile tears. That was our program. We have adapted the aid system - there have been huge debates here in this House - and we will adapt the tax system and now we will also adapt the land ownership system. The proposal, by the way, came from Magos and the Chamber of Agriculture, and was not the least against us. That's why we support him. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-170	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Obviously, I would have looked for the answer to the question that if we knew that between 2010 and 2013 the process that you started and the program that you announced - whether it be the farm program, the Hungaricum law, whether it be the land for the farmers or the programme - all this has resulted in the loss of small farms, then it is not possible that the direction you have taken is not a good direction? [[16.50]] Don't you think we should go in a different direction? Isn't it possible that this sale will speed this up even further? All the concerns that arise are practically deaf ears on the side of the Ministry of Agriculture, practically demagogic answers if we ask questions here in Parliament. That's why I wanted to ask you, if all the statistics show the opposite of what you claim, what will the government do? Obviously, if you don't take the title of my question as disrespectful, I'm always afraid of how clearly you can see the situation of Borsod, the Great Plain and the rest of the country, where they appear as specific jobs and as problems every day [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] resulting in emigration and internal migration. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-19-172	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2015-10-19-173	Honourable Congressman, Let's think logically. So what you're saying is that even though the government has taken steps that you haven't taken to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, you've tried to strengthen family economies, and, as you say, their numbers have fallen, you can't conclude that if we do the opposite, it will grow. So I can only say that if we hadn't pursued this policy, it would probably have decreased even more. I am not in a position, there is no rule of common sense that would drive me to believe that because the number of small businesses has fallen despite our support for them, now suddenly change and support large economies, there is no logic in this. Therefore, we have only one option: we must continue the policy that we have started and go through with it, and I think that the programme for farmers is a new and right step in this direction. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-174	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. How does sustained economic growth contribute to the rise in society's standard of living? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-10-19-175	Of course.
u2015-10-19-176	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it cannot be emphasized enough that the Hungarian economy is performing excellently, thanks to the hard government and parliamentary work of the last few years, and this is reflected not only in statistical data, but also in everyday life: our GDP data are excellent, employment is constantly improving, and falling prices result in further job expansion and an increase in the number of employees. Positive processes have a positive impact on the income situation of the population and contribute to an increase in internal consumption. In addition, it is enough to mention the career model of teachers, law enforcement workers or health professionals and the social career model starting from 1 January 2016 which puts more than 70,000 workers in a much more favourable position. Fidesz and the parliamentary faction of KDNP are also committed to career models, which gradually increase the wages of those working in the area, obviously in line with the performance of the economy. At the same time, we must not forget that wages have been increasing steadily for two years and have increased by more than 4 percent in 2014. Employment is also breaking records: last year there were 210,000 more people working than a year before, and since 2010, the number of employees has increased by half a million. Due to the family and contribution allowances, in 2014 the family remained more than HUF 236 billion, which helped to increase domestic consumption. Due to the successful economic policy and the reduction of the costs, price increases have stopped: last year and this year, prices have practically not increased, so inflation, also called the tax of the poor, has been virtually zero over the last two years. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you, how does the government see it, how long-term economic growth contributes to an increase in the standard of living of society and Hungarian people. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-10-19-178	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-19-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In fact, you have already said what benefits this lasting economic growth has for society and what families can expect, what workers can expect if the government, the country, can sustain economic growth above the average of the European Union. The most important thing I would like to emphasise is the expansion of employment. I think that the country has done a great job in the last five years, since there were around 3.7 million people employed in Hungary in 2010 and currently over 4 million 200 000; this is not even an example in the European Union. The second most important factor is that, of course, growth also increases budgetary revenues and thus the resources that can be used to benefit people. So this is really an increase in the income of public employees, the introduction of career models, the increase in family tax relief and, of course, the reduction of taxes, the reduction of taxes that affect people's daily lives, improve their situation. Thus, for example, the reduction of personal income tax, which is one-key, will fall again from 16 percent to 15 percent next year, and, of course, the VAT reduction, which is likely to appear in prices and, in addition to the fact that people, families, will take more home, will spend less on certain services and goods and their everyday needs. That's how it works, so it's in the interest of a state, a government, a country. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] to ensure lasting growth, because it is good for everyone at the end. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-180	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-10-19-181	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr State Secretary, from which it is clear to everyone that the Hungarian reforms are working, the tax reduction decisions adopted by the Hungarian Parliament on the proposal of the government have fulfilled its expectations, and we have shown in a unique way in Europe that, alongside the system of tax reductions, economic growth can be achieved at the level of a national economy. Thanks to this model, Hungary is not only one of the most favourable tax systems in Europe today, but the standard of living of Hungarian citizens has also increased above average over the last few years. I ask the government to keep this in mind during its decisions during the next period, so that the Hungarian people's standard of living is as high as possible, leaving as much money as possible with the people, leaving as much money as possible with the Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-10-19-183	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Continuing with the benefits of economic growth, I think that if the country had not been able to meet it this way, especially from 2013, there would not have been a reduction in the rent, which is now below average for a family in Hungary in the European Union, and we would not have been able to bring out the two million clients involved, two million people who had foreign exchange loans and could not have made the forints. There are many positive effects of sustained economic growth. I could mention the increase in investment in the public sector, which means more jobs or incentives for investors, as foreign investors prefer to choose the country where there is growth. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And Hungary is such a country today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-184	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Is transparency important to you? It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2015-10-19-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, Several times in this House today, the privatisation of the land fortune by the state has been mentioned, and my fellow Member, Mr Bell, has asked you an immediate question. This is the story where Fidesz, the government, intends to sell 380,000 hectares, mainly arable land, of state-owned land. At our meeting on the Committee on Agriculture, Minister Lazarus mentioned that a meaningful debate could be held on whether the state should own or possibly sell the land. In our view, the construction is better if the state is the owner of the land, this has been spoken about by my fellow Member Bellozó, whether it is land-ownership policy or, let us say, social cooperatives, that could have a much greater impact on the state. At the same time, I believe that you have decided to sell this state land, this privatisation, and you have launched it. In this connection, together with my opposition colleagues, we have tabled a motion to initiate the establishment of a parliamentary ad hoc committee on the sale of state land, which could carry out Parliament's monitoring function on this issue, and the sale of state land would be carried out in a transparent and transparent manner, which, as we know, will, as the government plans, generate hundreds of billions of HUF revenue. [[17.00]] We think that if we could set up a case-by-case committee in this, which, once again, could exercise Parliament's powers of control through this, it would certainly be a good solution. I would therefore like to ask Fidesz, the government and you, Prime Minister, whether it is important for you to have transparency, whether you support the establishment of an ad hoc committee in Parliament, and I would like to say once again that Parliament could also carry out an audit of this issue, which is large and far-reaching. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-19-186	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2015-10-19-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as the technical part of the matter is concerned, after the Hungarian Parliament has a Committee on Agriculture and has a subcommittee on control, the work can be done there. As to the substance of the matter, although I have already held this debate with a fellow Member from your group, after you have repeated the allegations, so if you do not take it as impolite, I will be forced to do the same. So I have to repeat that we understand that if you are in favour of the state ownership of agricultural land, you have taken it from private owners. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] They're obviously trying to protect that decision. There's nothing extraordinary about that, it's in politics. And we think we should give this land to farmers instead. This difference of opinion remains between us. All I can tell you is that we are implementing a 100-year-old farmer's programme in a transparent way. I repeat: there are public auctions, I ask you that, if you are interested in these specific auctions, after they are public, you can view everything, everything is transparent, everything is transparent, everything is traceable. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-188	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-10-19-189	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, By the way, I was born in 1978, so I couldn't really take anything, but regardless, [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But I am the chairman of that certain agricultural control subcommittee, the control subcommittee of the Committee on Agriculture. Unfortunately, we are not usually able to hold a quorum meeting, because my fellow Members in Fidesz do not usually attend this subcommittee meeting. It happens sometimes, but it's not typical. However, we would like to see the transparency and transparency of this sale at least, which, I repeat, is a large-scale thing and can result in hundreds of billions of HUF revenue. Therefore, if you have nothing to hide in this matter, that if there is no fidesz dog in this case, there is no new ground robbery, that if you do not want to bring the Fidesz clientship to the ground, then please support the establishment of an ad hoc committee for Parliament, and through this we will be able to exercise this parliamentary control. Then you can say it yourself, Prime Minister. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To see the opposition representatives screaming wolf where there was no wolf. That is why I ask you to support us in setting up a committee on a case-by-case basis. Thank you.
u2015-10-19-190	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2015-10-19-191	It is not my place to advise opposition representatives, of course, but it is better to be careful with the wolf cry, because in the end, the wolf will take you away. So much for that. But I didn't mean to hurt you before. I didn't say that you'd ever swept the attic or had anything to do with being culated, or that you'd have taken away the small estates that you had acquired from the farmers at the time. I didn't say you were personally involved in this. [[Dr. László Kács: Yes! He said it was you!]] Just as I'm not involved in the fact that 100 years ago there was a small farm program written by our political predecessors. This does not mean that we cannot, by the way, represent the ideas and political trends that arose before our lives. That's how political families are built. Ours is a small farmers-Christian-democratic civic trend, which thinks that where it is and where it is intelligent, we should give priority to private property. And you guys take the wealth away from these layers, like this, sometimes. This is the story of our political families. I didn't want to open this debate, I didn't bring this up, but since you've brought it here, just to make it clear why you're thinking about doing things and public economies again, I was forced to mention this historical background here. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Trafik and others, Prime Minister!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-192	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. This is how you steal: Fidesz corruption at the sale of state land. It's up to Congressman.
u2015-10-19-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Today's better speeches are about close-up corruption in Fidesz, and the fact is that if we want to go through this topic, you have given us enough ammunition until the end of the cycle, because corruption is rampant in all areas, and this is the case in rural development and agriculture. It wasn't easy for me when I had to highlight a case in the absence of time, not because it was so little, but because I had a lot of opportunities. Lőrinc Mészáros's glamour is certainly worth another story here, within the walls of the House. Make no mistake, I am an absolute admirer of every working man who loves and performs his profession, but the country, or rather the universe, is the most glorious, and the work of the most upward gas mechanic in his career is worth bringing here again. This incredible success story may have been most apparent in agriculture, when your favourite entrepreneur struck every tender, whether it is the case of land applications or any EU or domestic support. By the way, only 800 hectares of state land were taken from local family farmers, who, although you have already defended them several times today orally, and in practice, we can see that the entire Valley of Váli has been taken away by this one gentleman and his interest from those locally living family farmers who should really be helped. The newly born Máté Csák farmed on nearly 3,000 hectares, and became famous not only from his gas plumber activity and agriculture, but also from his empire. Recently, he has won a Békés County dam renovation worth HUF 10 billion net, without any competition, so I am right to ask Prime Minister, when your relatives and friends are abounding from EU and domestic sources, when will the small and medium-sized family farmers who really live on the ground get a bit of a wall. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-194	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-10-19-195	First of all, my honourable fellow Member, there are some points where you are not telling the truth. In Váli Valley, especially in our village, where the land was rented by a company with legal personality from one former state farm, now more than 30 farmers are farming, it became more than 30. I'm afraid that doesn't fit in with what you just said here. It's not my place to protect the mayor of the Upstairs, but what I'd like to say to you is that he's giving 700 people jobs, and 500 of them live in our neighborhood. We'd be in a lot of trouble if we didn't have such a successful businessman in our neighborhood. So we'd rather be happy for you, the people who live there than envy you, the way you do. However, I must also note that, of course, since suspicions, corruption and abuses cannot be accepted, if you are aware of any specific matter, it is your duty and duty to take the necessary legal action as a result of the oath of your representatives. That's what I'd encourage you to do. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-196	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. You have a rejoinder, Congressman. There you go. You have the floor.
u2015-10-19-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! In many cases, we have filed charges. The fact that you have adapted the legislation to the former two-thirds of your possession that what you are doing is often not illegal does not mean that it is moral or acceptable. For example, the 800 hectares that Lőrinc Mészáros and his interests took from the locals may be legal, but I do not think it can be called moral or support for small and medium-sized family farmers. Prime Minister, since you have been ruling, support, tender and public procurement have become virtually synonymous with corruption, and a Jobbik government will also have to put this right. [[Noise, interruptions from the Fidesz ranks.]] Prime Minister, I hope to get a substantive answer to one question: if you think that Lőrinc Mészáros is a farmer with the palm of his hand, and you have repeatedly said that it is, I would like to ask Prime Minister whether I might be able to install the gas with you. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-198	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2015-10-19-199	If I need it, I'll let you know. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In any case, we're moving forward because you withdrew your accusation in the first half of your question, because you just said everything was legal then, but it wasn't moral. It's not corruption. We can argue that something, the moral content of a law, is correct or not, but this is not the same as a violation of the law, which is corruption. So I accept your withdrawal. [[17.10]] On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that it is strange that we have our Vale Valley, for example, where 35 people are renting land now instead of the former owners, and Jobbik does not like it. The question has to be asked: Since when did you become advocates of big owners? Why are you attacking small and medium-sized farmers? The thing is, you guys have a new owner's sponsor, and I see he's quite influential. So all I'm asking you is, how do you like mercenaries? [[Defiance and great applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-19-200	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. How does Hungarian tourism perform? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-201	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The growth in tourism is unbroken, based on the August and the first eight months data this year can be a record year in the sector again. In recent years, Hungary's tourism indicators have changed in a positive direction. Most of the growth is generated by tourists from abroad, but domestic tourist traffic is also improving spectacularly. As the number of guests increased, of course, revenues also increased. The number and amount of SZÉP card payments show an increase, which indicates that the government made the right decision when introducing the card into the system of extra-wage benefits in 2012. After the positive summer results, Hungary's good geographical conditions may also be able to rely on the positive development of the autumn period. Wellness, spa and spa services are a strong attraction, as there has been a significant increase in capacity in the area of these services in recent years. Already 10,5 percent of the accommodations are located in spa and wellness hotels. On this basis, I would like to ask you with respect, Mr Secretary of State, in particular, what results have been achieved in the expansion of tourism in Hungary, what opportunities for EU development can be used for tourism will be opened in the period ahead. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-202	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The performance of tourism is of particular importance in our country, and not only in terms of how it improves and strengthens economic growth, how many people it gives jobs to, how many entrepreneurs can earn income and pay taxes to the budget, but for some reason I think that the Hungarian people's self-confidence is better if they can receive many guests and many tourists in the country. It is the same as at home that we are all hospitable, and therefore the country is also hospitable, because to learn about Hungary's history and culture, to enjoy its medicinal water, to get acquainted with its gastronomics, I think it is a special experience. This year's figures fully support our performance in the field of tourism, i.e. the performance of tourism workers, the development of tourism companies, and I believe that the government's support policy, which it has done in recent years, has been a positive decision, since such hosts have been significantly supported by the introduction of the government and the SZÉP card mentioned by you. Allow me to support this with numbers. While a million people spent on the SZÉP card last summer, this year it exceeded 1 million 200 thousand, and the upload exceeded 70 billion compared to 65 billion last year. I believe that the government and the tourism sector have found each other, and that they bring excellent results, with the clear aim of the government to maintain these results, what is more, to increase and as many tourists as possible to arrive in Hungary. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-204	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-10-19-205	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. This means that tourism is Hungary's strategic sector, and the government treats tourism as a strategic sector accordingly, and the government's support policy has been developed accordingly. The general increase in tourism is also hoped to mean the involvement and development of new areas, for example in my constituency, in the case of the development of tourism and ecotourism along the Drava region. I trust that, with the predictable support policy of the coming years, the development of tourism in Hungary, including newer and newer regions, will be unbroken and we will achieve our goals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-206	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-207	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In addition to the foreign tourists I have been talking about in the last two minutes, it is, of course, very important that domestic tourism also recovers, and domestic tourism is also growing, which is typical in recent years. That's what the beauty card's really about. It is very important that we can maintain this standard and ensure that we can also increase our standards. This requires improvements. In the period 2014-2020 around HUF 300 billion will be available for the development of tourism, but tourism will also indirectly benefit from development opportunities in other operational programmes. The government is very confident that these companies will be able to reach these development resources as soon as possible and expand their existing services and improve their quality and thus improve the results of tourism in the next period. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-208	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Minister L. Simon László has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person of the responding [[István Ikotity: Yes.]] Or he'll ask the Minister himself for an answer. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-209	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, While LMP is finding out more and more about Andy Vajna's vague casino transactions, we looked into the Gambling Company. His money-sharing exercise, too. Previously, the national lottery company itself, and from January this year, the successor to the Gambling Service Nonprofit Kft. manage the aid applications received. Some of the lottery money is used to support various organisations, in the order of 100 million a month. It's a nonprofit. Head of Parliament Marcell Zsiga, former Fidesz Member of Parliament, famous for his statement about the poor, for HUF 1.5 million a month. Although we were denied much information, we received the list of supporters. Reading this, we've been eyeballing a lot of times. There is no time to list it, but we have seen a number of examples of generous support from non-profit organisations, perhaps non-gaming addicts. From close organizations in the government, through various Fidesz-led sports clubs, many have received millions of grants up to the top of companies that look completely fake. It was good for the Századvég, the ties of Secretary of State L. Simon László, but the municipality of Hódmezővásárhely also benefited. But what do they have to do with gaming, helping addicts? Why doesn't the century end get the tens of millions, why don't they give it to the charities? How could the national lottery company also become a close-to-government paying place? Not at all, they supported a number of charitable organizations and health institutions, but they hid the funding of the buddy circle among the good goals. Dear Secretary of State, Does the government check the irresponsible distribution of money for the Zsiga Marcells? How long will the Gambling Company let it operate as a close-up payment place for the government. Company? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-10-19-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[17.20]]
u2015-10-19-211	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Gambling Company. one of the most important companies and companies of the Hungarian State, which generate significant profits. This is where we note that the Gambling Company. The Hungarian State maintains the National Cultural Fund, among other things, from the toy tax produced by the Hungarian State, since the National Cultural Fund receives 90 percent of the tax revenue of the 5th Lottery for management purposes, and the National Film Fund, as part of the prize tax of the 6th Lottery is also managed by the National Film Fund. I believe that these are strategic goals which are in the interest of Hungarian culture and which must be supported. Honourable Congressman, I've also read in the last few days about the articles that are in the Gambling Company. they deal with its support policy. Gambling Company. Otherwise, it belongs to the Ministry of National Development, the Ministry of National Development is, as far as I know, under constant control by Szerencségy Zrt. the management, operation and support policy, and there is nothing wrong with it. I think you have just said on your question that you support extremely important social, extremely important public welfare, health, sport and cultural programmes, and that in recent years, Szerencsejág Zrt. has supported many noble cases that were truly worthy of support. Honourable Congressman, Speaking of my person, I can tell you that I am proud to have spent five years of my life in the editorial office of the Contemporary Journal, this is a long-standing literary journal that has existed since 1957, in this paper I have been an editor for years, I have not been a member of the editorial board for six years; the fact that this magazine has received a few million HUF support from Szerencségy Zrt. is very good. I hope that you will continue to support it in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-212	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-213	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We did not question the fact that Szerencségy Service Kft. has an activity that is very useful and indispensable, but I referred to it and again I ask you why a government works as a nearby paying place, why it does that - then I quote specific numbers - the Századvég Foundation has recently received 35 million HUF. Obviously, there is no need to question the closeness of this government. In the same way, the management of sports clubs and government-led cities received subsidies. What is the reason why a government considers this organisation to be a close paying place, or has a lot of such activities, and it is obviously a national scandal, whether in some way I would like to check it out and prevent it from operating as such in the future. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-10-19-214	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-10-19-215	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I see that, although I have answered your question quite clearly and fairly, you do not wish to change your position. Let's just say, in your opinion, it's a government-wide pay-per-view. But I'm going to ask you back: are there any important cultural workshops, think tanks, communities near the government that you call close to the government that you can't get support from a company that owns the state? Of course, governments can also receive close-ups and government critics, and we, as normal people, do not divide the world by government-close cultural journals or not government-close cultural journals, but by value-creating cultural journals. Take a look at the National Cultural Fund, look at the support strategy of the Ministry of Human Resources, and you will see that intellectual workshops, who are self left-wing, liberal and self-sustaining, will receive support. I think that this is the right thing to do, and it should stay that way, and I think those who create value are entitled to seek support from Szerencség Zrt. or others. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-216	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Alpár Gyopáros and Richárd Hörcsik, representatives of Fidesz, want to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question with the title of more important international telecommunications cooperation. The Minister has appointed Mr László Szabó State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-217	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The International Telecommunications Union, the International Telecommunications Association in Hungarian, is a global institution operating in the most important field of information communication in the United Nations, whose task is to assist international telecommunications cooperation. It is no coincidence that one of the most important international professional exhibitions and conferences in the sector, ITU Telecom World, was held in Budapest on 15 October this year. As we have read, the focus of this event was on supporting SMEs, expanding global relations and speeding up innovation. Dear Secretary of State, We are well aware that the government is particularly supportive of emerging Hungarian young people, so that, at the initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of National Development, Next Generation Day was organised as a priority programme for the event, which provided free participation to Hungarian entrepreneurs and especially university students within the framework of an open day. For Hungary, ITU Telecom World is also decisive because the sector is of particular importance to the Hungarian economy and contributes increasingly to improving the quality of life of citizens. We know that the SME sector complicates more than 95 percent of sales, employs about 70 percent of the workforce and accounts for about 80 percent of jobs in developing countries, and that the ICT and IT industries account for about 12 percent of Hungarian GDP. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you if there is any significant improvement in the infocommunications and telecommunications sector in the near future, and I ask how the success of SMEs will contribute to the results of the Hungarian economy. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-218	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-19-219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Congressman! The answer is, briefly, yes. The national infocommunication strategy and the Digital National Development Programme, known as the four main pillars of digital Hungary, are: on the one hand, broadband internet access in Hungarian households until 2018; the development of the digital community and economy; the expansion of e-public services, i.e. to enable citizens to operate online as widely as possible; and the development of digital knowledge and skills in the field of public education and higher education. I have to say that when we shared these goals with the Secretary-General of ITU, Hungary was recognised at such a level that, in his view, Hungary would be one of the first developed countries in the world, which, if it reaches these goals by 2018, we should be proud of that. This will obviously come back in the medium and long term from the point of view of the Hungarian national economy, and will create knowledge. We have set out the following main development directions, which are linked to the same pillars: on the one hand, the development of network access and links between institutions; the consolidation and capacity development of government networks; the promotion of cooperation between educational institutions and businesses in the ICT sector; the promotion of the marketisation of manufactured products and services; the entry of startup firms into the international market, the development of experts and mentoring networks; and the promotion of the entry of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises into international markets. In the area of the development of the digital economy, we are planning to develop motivational, approach-forming and competence-building programmes to support SMEs, corporate complex infocommunications, mobile development programmes, increase digital community access, create community internet access points and facilitate the spread of online government, administrative and eHealth services. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik.
u2015-10-19-221	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, So, as we have heard, the aim of the Digital National Development Programme is to create digital Hungary, which means the cooperation of three sectors: a joint venture of government, institutional and market players, and this programme includes all ICT development from EU and domestic sources up to 2020. As the Prime Minister announced at one conference, the government wants to spend some 130 billion forints on this development by 2020. [[17 .30]] We hope that this will be sufficient to make the super-fast internet available to all Hungarian households, for example, in the coming days. Perhaps I would also like to highlight the other point that this is what Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises need most, because this is how we can keep them in competition in the coming time. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-222	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-223	Mr President, indeed, we must rely on SMEs, in particular, because, hopefully, SMEs will give an increasing share of the Hungarian national economy, and it is very important to see that what is happening in this sector, the ITU sector, is very serious in national added value, because they give a 100% value in this activity with the help of virtually zero raw materials and knowledge. Within the framework of the operational programme for economic development and innovation, ITU and the EU have identified such priorities, which are entirely in line with the Hungarian government's intention. The State will help the SME sector through the launch of proposals. Here in R &amp; D, the creation of startups and the introduction of special new technologies, Hungary's competitiveness and well-being will also increase. The fact that the International Telecommunications Association, which is now 150 years old, brought its annual conference to Hungary, is in itself a great honour for us, and the fact that we have been able to fill it with such content that we have come from more than 60 countries, more than four thousand participants have come to know Hungary and the direction in which the sector is headed in Hungary, is a huge achievement, and we should all be proud of that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-224	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Who is important? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-10-19-225	Yeah, sure.
u2015-10-19-226	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-19-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, More and more news and information about the new cafeteria decree reveals that the food is saltless, tasteless, inedible, and that is why children do not eat it, so they often go home hungry. The experience varies from one institution to another per catering company, but many believe that the quality of the menus has been lower than before, many children are practically starving in school and kindergarten. In Szeged, parents have already made a petition for the inedible cafeteria. In Debrecen, after two weeks, a crisis meeting was called for the cafeteria. This signal, which comes from a civil society organisation dealing with the most disadvantaged settlements, can cause serious and inaccessible problems. Nóra L. Ritók, director of the Real Pearl Foundation for children living in extreme poverty, said that the situation is catastrophic. Even children in real need don't eat new foods. This means that children who, because of their family's financial situation, are unable to provide adequate meals outside of school do not get enough nutrition. You can agree with the principles, Mr State Secretary, I just want to ask you some questions. When are you going to consider the signals for the last few weeks? Does the regulation take into account the specific situations that have developed in the Seghalom, or, let us say, the situation that more than 30 percent of the children who are being fed today are allergic to one of the ingredients of milk? Is it not false when we talk about healthy feeding, that the VAT on white meat and red meat will not be reduced from 2016, but the VAT on pork? How do you feel about the medical opinion that withdrawal of salt causes at least as much problems and diseases as too much salt? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-10-19-228	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-19-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think that everyone who is here in Parliament would like to get used to the healthiest food in the school dining room and everyone else involved in the feeding. That is why we have created this regulation, which is finally trying to make food much healthier and more varied in schools, with much more fruit, vegetables, and healthy raw materials. Obviously, the introduction of this can only be gradual, which is why we have pushed the introduction of this regulation at least twice, so that there is time for both local authorities and the various service providers and kitchens, who prepare these dishes, to prepare for this transition. And that's why we put it this way, it's coming into effect gradually. The last date of entry into force is 2021. It is now launched on 1 September 2015 and will continue to enter into force until 2021. Obviously, there are providers, as your experience has shown, who are already cooking according to 2021 standards, and therefore this transition period is not available until everyone in the nursery, in kindergarten, in primary school, can get used to these new flavors. On the one hand, it is bad if only salt has given the food its taste, because then it must have been a badly cooked kitchen, and on the other hand, it obviously needs to be gradual in the transition. However, this is necessary because you know that every third-fourth minor is already suffering from obesity, and this is even more typical in adulthood. Many adults have cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure, so they are responsible for the exact amount of salt or comfort products, such as soup powder, which has been cooked in many places. We are constantly following you, as you have requested, we are still having an information campaign, not only for those who feed their children in the cafeteria or who eat there, but also for those companies and businesses who cook these dishes, with a recipe book illustrated by photos and others, trying to help them to comply with this regulation, but still to cook delicious dishes. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-230	I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-231	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I am also a housewife, and healthy food is not an inedible meal. And my problem is that the regulation does not acknowledge the specialties of Hungarian cuisine. We're not just talking about salt, we're not just talking about soup powder. By the way, I will have an initiative, the MSZP fraction, as we can judge what we are talking about if we face it ourselves, so that in the Hungarian Parliament we can cook in the kitchens according to this regulation, because we also need healthy food when we are sitting here, and we will know what we are talking about. I think it's gonna be a very good initiative, and then when we eat what our kids have to eat, we can make an opinion of it. And the other, Mr. Secretary of State, is that while the prominent people of the government go to sausage-filling competitions, sheep-making festival, where fat-filled foods flow out of the bourbon and the schnapps flow, our children are also deprived of traditional, so-called healthy food. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-232	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-19-233	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We are at a historic moment in the scrambled meat dispute here in the walls of Parliament. Of course, no one wants traditional Hungarian flavors in these kitchens as well. As you said in your first speech, even a little more restrained and closer to reality, there were kitchens who used to cook well, and there were those who were bad, and now there are kitchens who cook well and badly. Because there is less salt, sugar and fat in new foods, it is still possible to cook delicious foods. As you said, as a housewife, it is possible to cook healthy and delicately. Like I said, there has been a good and a bad example before, there is still a good and a bad example; some people misinterpret the continued entry into force of this regulation. That is why we have launched an information campaign among them, so that it can reach as many as possible, how exactly to comply with this regulation. And I believe that others in other countries give double to triple the amount of money to get healthy food, so I think that young people, children to whom we guarantee this - you know that instead of ninety or a few thousand, we give this to 300,000 children free of charge - well, they also deserve a healthy meal, and they can get used to it, but they also have to be tasty. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[17.40]]
u2015-10-19-234	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:39 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary. T/4975 on the establishment of mayor's salary. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs as rapporteur in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-19-235	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm very glad you're in this debate. The subject of this amendment to the bill is what you obviously already know, namely that the mayors of the settlements with a population of less than 500 people and between 500 and 1,500 inhabitants have significantly reduced their welfare after the 2014 election. The income constraints laid down by the law do not by far reflect the extremely much work, the responsible, sacrificial work that these mayors do for their settlement. There may also be a reverse situation where the manager receives less money than the public employee he manages, if he performs his duties as a social mayor. We are convinced that the authority of this extremely important office of elected leadership could also be strengthened by guaranteeing a decent income through legislation. To this end, I have suggested that we recommend to the House that these two categories of settlements should be raised in a meaningful way. I think that these mayors - and I think there is no debate between us - often serve between 0 and 24 hours in their settlement. Nevertheless, the money they receive for this task is so little that it is impossible to maintain its own existence and create it. Why do I say 0-24 hours? Because, in many cases, small settlements do not have the institutional background to help the mayor's work, so they are the ones who often take patients to the hospital by car, perform certain village care tasks, do a significant part of the official work and do a significant part of the administration. Nevertheless, I say once again, this money cannot be made a living, but because of certain regulations, they cannot do many kinds of work, because they cannot fulfil certain tasks and jobs because of conflict of interest rules. László Vigh and I were recently on a joint forum in Zalai, where Sallai R. Benedict was also there, and he may be able to confirm my words, where it has been said that this issue will be raised as a topic at the Fidesz Group meeting in September, and there will be a proposal to settle this issue in such a way that individual city leaders who, in some sense, take on extra tasks, will have access to extra money. I think that the fact that it has already been raised in you is that this question must sooner or later be resolved in some way, but it is good. The idea of making more money for more work is a reprieve because, as I said before, these people are working very hard. If they can't work, it's because they go somewhere else within the limits and opportunities of the law to make a living. In fact, you know what, Mr. Secretary? Unfortunately, it also happens, and this has not happened in one place, that the reason that mayor, elected mayor, resigned from his post and went to work abroad is because the money is so unfairly low that he could not support his family. It is a shame, however, for us legislators, that we have made a law, and you are not willing to change it, so that some of the leaders of the settlements are in such an unfair position! That is why I propose here the bill before us to this House, at least to give us the opportunity to debate it. Then, if there are amendments, let us assume that you see income categories differently, draw different bands or assume that you want to set a different percentage for the social mandate, we are partners in this. I myself initiated within another bill that the 50 percent that goes with the social assignment should be raised to 75 percent. In fact, we would have asked that it be part of the budget, and we know that in Annex 2 it is regulated what can be spent on general operation, from which the government, the central budget, finances the salaries of municipal mayors. Please support the proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-10-19-236	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. No one came forward in writing. I ask if anyone wishes to exercise their right to speak. [[For application:]] I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP Group.
u2015-10-19-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The problem outlined by my colleague Mr Hegedűs Lorántné is not new, as we have seen in practice that between 2006 and 2010 only 74 percent of the previous candidates have been restarted and the number of candidates for mayor has fallen even further by 2014. Obviously, there could have been a political reason for this, how Fidesz wanted to create the possibility that its opponents would not start, but obviously, with the elections over, it would be good if this system could now be settled. We find it totally unworthy and unacceptable that people who carry the care of small settlements and seek solutions cannot make a living on a salary. There is obviously a question of what leaders the Fidesz government is thinking of at the head of these settlements, so what kind of city leaders should society choose if a general graduate, a person with a higher competence, cannot create the minimum existence necessary to raise the family by means of salaries that can be expected at all to try to bring the settlements in a self-employed direction with innovative ideas, rural development models and creativity in the public works programme. Due to the historical traditions of the Hungarian settlement structure, it still contains a very large number of such small settlements. Unfortunately, the demographic conditions of these are getting worse, and those who take on the problems of these settlements deserve greater respect. We are asking the government and my fellow members of the Government to support this series of subjects, because it is still possible to clarify, agree and change if at least the debate is opened in Parliament on how to do it better if they have a better idea. We support and welcome the initiative from the LMP fraction. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-19-238	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-10-19-239	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the inclusion of a series of subjects for several reasons, because we believe that the mayors of small settlements have been deceived by the government, because it has taken away from them a lot of taxes that could really have been used to stewardise and finance the extra expenses that could have been used to help their settlement. But I'm going to go on, because they were cheated when they didn't give them the information about how we were going to start, and how they could get paid for what they were working for. You have to see, you have to know, that the municipal mayors we're talking about are the ones who are most damaged in the entire electoral system, and at the moment, because they have to spend the most of their working time, because they don't work for 8 hours in their settlement, but they live there, and they have to pay attention to the firewood of pensioners or their meals, or to the heating of kindergartens. So what they really have to do is it's impossible to say that they can't get the support that the proposal contains. Therefore, we want to support it. On the other hand, we cannot support the part of trying to embody various, so-called tasks on the mayors of small settlements that they can only receive different compensations and extra compensation if, say, they pay attention to public workers or pay attention to public workers and other things. We say that we should give an autonomous government what is due, give the governments autonomy, because we think that this is what they deserve. If they have set off in a direction where they have undertaken a great deal of work that they have done there in the settlement, then a government must help this task, because I think you have given up on the municipalities, the municipalities of small settlements, and if you do not want to give up on the municipalities of small settlements, then you will definitely support the inclusion in the series of objects. Thank you very much. [[17.50]]
u2015-10-19-240	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Apáti, Jobbik Group, also in a two-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have certainly come to an extremely sensitive topic, as politics has always been difficult to address when it comes to raising salaries for political actors or political leaders of some level or rank, and it is necessary to vote for an increase in salaries. However, this is an exceptional occasion, since it is not a national or regional level, but a local level, including the small settlement levels. What must be understood - all the speakers who have said this - is that the mayors of small settlements are essentially shepherds of local communities, helping people find their way around everyday life as a kind of political all-rounder, as a political handyman. Most of these are ageing settlements, where in many cases the mayor also needs to be helped in the organization of health care, access to the hospital, or the small-scale things of everyday life. This is unknown in a metropolitan district, in a county town or county seat. In a small settlement, this is a daily part of the mayor's schedule, and it is never taught in any university or college, and it is never included in any job description. These people are making an outrageous amount of money today, and in many cases their situation is extremely unfair compared to the public wage, and, frankly, to this day, I cannot understand and accept what Viktor Orbán once replied to the question of András Schiffer here in the autumn of last year. The Prime Minister literally said that he lived most of his life in a settlement of less than 2 thousand people, and on that basis he knows that there is no need for full-time and decently paid mayors. Well, anyone who has spent most of his life in a settlement of this size should be aware of the need for full-time mayors, the need for decently paid mayors. In addition, we do not want to propose a 100 percent or triple-four times increase, but a large increase of 15 percent. Thank you very much for the support speeches, and we hope that the pro-government factions will also consider this. So much has been taken away from small settlements for the last 25 years, at least don't take their leaders away. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Vas Imre, Fidesz Group, has spoken. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone in the Parliament's benches agrees that the mayors of small settlements are doing a lot of work, and obviously also that this small settlement, but the larger municipal mayor's task, is not taught at any school. We really have the greatest respect for the mayors of small settlements and large settlements. The problem has already been raised by the speakers before me. There are settlements, such as those under 500 people, where the salaries of mayors with a social mandate have been significantly reduced, the settlements between 501 and 999 have decreased very minimally compared to the previous cycle, and the settlements between 1000 and 3000 have also decreased. One of the problems that my fellow Member has submitted is that he is very close to the salary of the mayor of the settlements of 500 people and 9900 people. In the meantime, the role of mayor can also be performed in the small settlement as a full-time job and as a social assignment. Unfortunately, the proposal opens the Mötv very narrowly. It is feared that if we try to improve this bill with amendments, then we should also touch on points that are not opened, and are not literally linked to mayor's salaries, but only metaphorically. By the way, I can confirm that both the Fidesz-KDNP and the Ministry of the Interior are working on solving the problem, but it is not a simple problem, given that these people have been chosen in this way. There is also the question of how and to what extent it should be touched after the elections. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-19-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the Member as rapporteur whether she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Yes.]] I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-245	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you very much to all my fellow Members who have spoken in support of this motion. I am very sorry that, Mr. Secretary, although you are here, you have not spoken to him. You obviously have an opinion, and I was really looking forward to you telling us right now. I think that if the opinion is not expressed, it also raises the possibility of maintaining and even building this vulnerable situation, although this is not likely to be the case. This is about strengthening feudal relations by making small settlements and mayors running them as vassals of certain Fidesz province lords. Let me answer to my colleague Imre Vas. You're the Mitzvah. the one that regulates the mayor's salary so strictly and briefly, so that's the only thing I can change. I had other suggestions. And with regard to the social assignment, allow me a sentence. Yes, we increased the ratio of the two lower categories by 15-15 percent. We did this because these two lower categories assume poor settlements where mayors cannot take the job in full-time jobs, because the municipalities cannot manage the main-time mayor from their own budget. Compared to this, only 50 percent of the mayors who work there will receive it, which is why we thought to increase these two categories significantly. It is not true that this would result in the system's disproportion of what you said. I'm looking forward to the presentation you've been saying so many times. They've been promising to fix this for a year and a half. Believe me, it's not that complicated. My fellow Member Sallai once, I myself, twice, and perhaps even the MSZP fact, have tabled such an amendment, which you have never once supported, but it is always about the fact that it will and will. But when? - that's what I'm asking. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-246	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 2010 LXXXVII on the National Earth Fund. T/6080 amending Act T/6080 on the need to protect national land assets. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Agriculture. First, I will give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek as rapporteur within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There has been relatively a lot of talk about land privatisation in public life these days, and there has been a lively debate about it here in Parliament today. Obviously, I've been trying to communicate my own opinion that I think it's a crazy idiotic thing, and there wasn't a fair proposal from Magos that he even suggested. But I'm telling you, it's my opinion. At the same time, I must acknowledge that the forces governing this country, the political forces of Fidesz and KDNP, are those who have to take decisions and take responsibility in a number of matters. Considering that there is a demand for the sale of state land, I wanted to make a constructive proposal that might be acceptable to Fidesz and KDNP. My strong opinion is that it is not from the devil that the state sells land. I do not think that it should be accepted that all of its substantial ploughers, where agricultural production is taking place, where it can create food security in the country, should be released. Therefore, with regard to the amendment of the NFA Act, I proposed in the draft law before us to limit the possibility of selling by determining what to sell. First of all, I didn't think it was fair for the government to take these steps and make decisions without asking the local governments where these lands were. He didn't ask if they needed land, if they could do something about using these fields for local employment. Therefore, I obviously thought that it would not be possible to sell land where a local government would claim any land and say that it could be used for employment purposes. The second idea was, and the best strategy on the part of the government is not to beat up these lands, but I suggest that you first look at what you can get from Hungarian producers as a renter. [[18.00]] What can you expect from Hungarian producers as a request? As owner, can you expect higher employment, increased quantities of organic food, shortened local food chains and increased food safety? This weekend, in connection with the cucumber scandal, there was much talk about food safety and organic products. So if we look at all of this, we should not sell the lands for which we have a local candidate who, as a tenant, undertakes to use these lands with higher food security and higher employment. It's not a wise decision to sell these things. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] And then we'll find out what this government is selling if it wants to be a privatization party, like the previous governments. Obviously, there are lands that the government can't use on its own. Each year, there are ten thousand hectares of land for the government which it cannot lease by means of a notice, but must be used by a contract of assignment. These exploitation opportunities, this year alone, have more than 10 000 hectares, which are less than 3 hectares, are undivided in common ownership, so it cannot be used very easily, and it can really help local farmers by creating, in addition to their undivided common calvary, at least some concentration of land in the land map numbers where they could not create land surveying. Why can't you sell that? Why can't you sell what's under 3 hectares, not for the municipality, and not rent it? Technically, if these were the only things the government would sell, I don't think there'd be this intense political debate we've seen today, like we've seen in the last month. Because with this option, any government will be able to make use of the state's remaining reserves of natural resources for rural development purposes, and it would be possible for the government to sell the land to the farmers under a programme to sell small areas of these lands that farmers might be happy to have access to. This is also a continuous phenomenon of the next period, the NFA law means permanence, as, by inheritance and other means, the state acquires land properties that are part of, say, 1/1 property, so it can be used independently, and it does not acquire 1/1 property, but some small fraction of the geography numbers, which is much more practical if it sells. That's what my NFA amendment proposal is about. We sell land that is not property of 1/1 to the state, which cannot be used by rental and does not need to be used by the local government. Small, undivided land under three hectares can be sold without any further delay and give the Parliament the power to sell them. The bill would ask Parliament to be empowered to do so, and it would ask that a reasonable compromise be reached on this issue with the support of pro-government representatives. I need your help with that. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-10-19-248	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position within a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First I give the floor to the written representative, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Mr Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear tableds, I will not surprise you by telling you that Jobbik is in favour of this proposal, as we support any proposal that tries to discourage this madness from the government. Just because the government originally did not intend to sell the remaining national assets, this 380,000 hectares of agricultural land, because if that had been its original intention, I think that in the national rural strategy in 2010-2011, when it was accepted at government level, it would not have written the opposite. After all, the national rural strategy included strengthening the participation of the Hungarian state in rural areas by increasing land in order to implement the programmes that they were still so proud of in 2010. And they've been so graciously forgotten ever since. I am thinking of the demographic target programme here, when, in agreement with Jobbik, you have said that there will be a programme where we will try to increase the strength and capacity of the countryside by making young people settle down in small settlements, which are most affected by the migration of young people, because it is worth starting a life in the countryside, because they will be given a productive area. And if they take 1-2-3 children, then this land could grow even more. In fact, if you do this madness, there won't be a single hectare left for the social land program, which they were still proud to accomplish. Of course, I know that József Ángyán was the Secretary of State at that time. Since then, he has not only disappeared, but his spirituality has completely disappeared from the government's rural policy, so I urge our still conscientious pro-government representatives to support this proposal. At least give us a chance to talk about this serious problem here in the House. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-250	Thank you very much. Congressman István Ikotity, LMP!
u2015-10-19-251	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to ask the Parliament with respect to vote in favour of the 2010 LXXXVII on the Earth Fund. the inclusion of a series of amendments to the law on the necessary amendment of the law to the protection of national land assets. The LMP submitted this amendment because, in our opinion, it is not possible to avoid the National Assembly in connection with the sale of 380 thousand hectares of national assets worth 3-5 billion forints. The intention of a mass sale of land belonging to national assets is a fundamental threat to the public interest and does not serve a policy of ownership aimed at the prosperity of the community of local farmers as a whole. The owners of land leases distributed with known abuses, besides speculators, will not have the chance to obtain land for land already leased. This new land distribution, specifically aimed at restoring feudal relations, is, in LMP's view, contrary to both the Basic Law and the fundamental laws governing the exploitation of national assets. The idea also shows that national land assets need more effective legal protection. Therefore, the bill significantly limits the possibility of selling to less than 3 hectares of land that cannot be used for the purpose of property policy. I think that "May Other" Politics has taken a constructive approach, not the opposite of what the government is saying, protesting not all kinds of sales, but trying to find a way that we think is possible here. What we are asking with this amendment is that each Member of Parliament should confess, see who agrees with the traipsing of the remains of national property. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-10-19-252	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask the factions, who have not yet spoken, as an independent Member is not in the room, and I will not ask him if he wishes to speak. Congressman Gábor Bellozó, MSZP!
u2015-10-19-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, the MSZP also supports this amendment of the LMP. Obviously, this was revealed earlier today, when I asked Prime Minister about the reason why the government led by Fidesz would now want to sell state land, even though earlier, even the President of Magos, who said that the Vice-President of the House, István Jakab, would have irreversible consequences for those living in the countryside if the government sold the state land. But Bitay, Márton Örs, wrote in the Preamble on the website of the National Land Management Organization, that the land must remain in government control, and that it must be responsible for managing the organization that he manages, and now he wants to manage it so that the clientship of the Fidesz is clearly largely in the hands of the state land. Why would it be important not to waste this state's land? As colleagues have said, perhaps the most talkative issue is that, since 2004 the EU's accession, crop production has increased by 30 percent, due to the EU's support policy, livestock production has fallen by 30 percent, resulting in a large number of jobs being lost in rural areas. Today, in the countryside, some people who cultivate the land with industrial plantation and high mechanization can make good money until people in the village live. This process should be stopped, somehow the people of the village should make a living, and this requires state land. After all, in these state fields, if the Hungarian state leases this land to farmers, they can prescribe how many people on this land need to be employed, what they need to do to make a living in the village. To give that up, to play this fortune for the most part with speculation, I think it's a crime that clearly needs to be prevented. This is what the proposal aims to do, and we therefore support it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-19-254	Congressman Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz! [[18.10]]
u2015-10-19-255	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the proposal before us is to ensure that land belonging to the Land Fund can only be sold if it is not possible to exploit land for land policy purposes or municipal use, and even in the case of State-owned land of 1/1 it would not allow it to do so. Here you refer to Article 38 of the Fundamental Law, which I would like to share with you:. The aim of managing and protecting national assets is to serve the public interest, meet common needs and safeguard natural resources and take account of the needs of future generations. Here you can argue what is the national interest, our belief is that the soil is in the right place if it is owned by those who use it, and it is in the nation's interest. Right now, we're on the verge of the state renting these lands. Let's conclude, so you're not really using it, you're not using it, you're renting it, you're drawing capital out of the sector, which is definitely not good for the industry. Walking around the countryside, farmers have a need for land access. It is important to have the land in their own hands and to be able to plan. It is no coincidence, by the way, that the author said in a debate that, as a farmer, he agrees with the programme, as a politician, what we say I cannot put where, and it is an incomprehensible statement to me. It is important to know that the competitiveness of small and medium-sized economies needs to be strengthened now, as it will be a completely different competitive position in the post-2020 period. It is important to see that the guarantee of the permanent Hungarian ownership of the Hungarian land is that Hungarian farmers can manage effectively, and this requires investment and long-term thinking. It must also be seen that the Union can clearly see that they want to soften the land law. I do not understand why, regardless of party standing, they protect the interests of large owners, why they play to enable large farms to buy these lands later on, or, where appropriate, to fall into foreign hands. They're accusing us of squandering it while we advertise these lands at 10 percent higher prices. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And István James said that it should not be sold. The way the MSZP wanted to sell it, you really shouldn't. Do you remember, Congressman, the sales units? Well, that was a shame. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-19-256	Thank you very much. No more commentaries. I'll ask the author if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Congressman, you have two minutes.
u2015-10-19-257	Yes, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Presenters, First, I would like to thank the opposition groups for their support. I believe that, after inclusion in the series of subjects, a constructive debate on this issue may arise, and it is clear that there can be a professional dialogue on this matter. Thank you very much, Mr Balázs Győrffy, Chairman of the Chamber and Member, for taking the time to share your opinion with us. Let me tell you, Mr President, you know very well that, given that a significant proportion of these are still subject to land lease rights, some of the new owners will not be able to make use of it, so this legal basis does not change, so the argument is not good on this basis. Similarly, if you say that the land should belong to those who cultivate it, the argument is also not good, because a significant part of these lands are currently in large farms, there are only 148 thousand hectares, which are affected by the dirty 12, and there are not yet large farms in it. So that's not a good point, either, because right now, if you're telling me that whoever's doing this should have it, I guess you don't want it to be owned here either. It follows that the public interest that you have had the pleasure of subpoenaing - which I thank you for - is precisely what I am explaining to you now, which you do not understand - that it will be good for some farmers, who will acquire land under good credit conditions. Of course, as a farmer, I say that the few farmers who obtain this will be very, very good, but as a politician, as a Hungarian citizen who owns a ten millionth of these lands, I say that this is a bad measure, because the public interests cannot be served as effectively as if it were in the hands of the state and in the hands of the state, the state, exercising ownership rights, creating expectations of what kind of production should take place there. Obviously, this ideological debate is interesting to continue, and it could be continued if you support the inclusion of the series of subjects, because then there will be an opportunity to say, here in Parliament, why it is not a good proposal, because we believe that this reasonable compromise is your position and our own, if we somehow open it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-19-258	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 1997 CLIV on health will follow. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. T/6398 submitted by the Government. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says yes. Here you go. State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2015-10-19-259	Thank you very much for the floor. I would be very brief, because I have already said the substance of the bill in the general debate, and I do not see that there has been any particular doubt in the future. The crisis category caused by mass immigration is already known by the Hungarian legal system, and it is important to have a health picture of this. For this reason, the bill, as many have already supported in the general debate, allows the chief medical officer, in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration, to impose a crisis under the health law either locally or in several places at the same time. That is why it is important for us to be able to carry out screening tests, so that we can reduce this epidemiological risk for both immigrants and the people of Europe as a whole, which has developed in Hungary in recent months and in many other countries in Europe. There was no particular debate about the need for the bill when the Parliament discussed it in general debate, and after that neither the national committee nor the competent committee considered it appropriate to make any amendments to the bill to be included in the report to be presented by the Committee on Welfare. The amendments tabled were not supported by the committees, so I would also like to ask the honourable Parliament, in its original form, to support this short, concise but very necessary bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-19-260	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you will have about eight and a half minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mrs Bene Ildikó, rapporteur for the designated Welfare Committee. You have three minutes, please.
u2015-10-19-261	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, A detailed discussion of the bill took place before the Committee on Welfare as a designated committee, as required. On behalf of the Ministry of Human Resources, Dr. Attila Beneda was Deputy State Secretary. As Minister of State has said, the bill has received a total of two proposals for amendments. The present representative of the portfolio said that they did not support the amendment proposals, according to their view, on the basis of the amendment of the law under consideration, the national chief officer decides, considering the professional aspects and adapting to the current situation, on the order of mandatory screening tests under the bill, with full professional competence, similar to those for mass screening tests for public health and epidemiological reasons. At the committee meeting, the Commission's amendment proposal was not drafted, and my fellow Members and I voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the detailed debate, which includes the recording of the Committee's previous decisions. The report on the detailed debate was adopted by the Committee. I think it is important to mention that the bill regulates a matter of paramount importance in a number of respects. There is an increased epidemiological risk due to increased migration, we have to say this, but our country's public health and epidemiological situation is stable despite the difficulties of recent months. Migration pressure calls for measures to be taken to effectively address the complex situation, which requires social, social and health aspects, and to ensure that all measures that can be implemented flexibly and in accordance with the situation, can ensure and maintain the current level of health safety. In view of the above, I would ask my fellow Members to support the above legislative proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-19-262	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, who will present the Commission's minority opinion. Here.
u2015-10-19-263	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Committee on Welfare discussed this bill, the bill that would try to address the public health and epidemiological situation of migrants. In the course of the debate, I said that I felt that we were running after the horse, and when we caught up with it, we were sitting on it backwards, because this public health and epidemiological situation occurred when crowds came to Eastern Station, crowds of migrants, so there were two thousand people at the same time, in one place, and they were used - I told them at the committee meeting - our public transport equipment, our playgrounds, the playgrounds that our children used. The Chief Medical Officer said, and János Szlávik, the head of the department at St. László Hospital, told me about the problems that I will describe later. [[18.20]] I thank you for your sacrifice because you work with viruses and bacteria that are harmful to human life and deadly. Both the Chief of Medicine and János Szlávik said that there is no problem with the diseases we know, but there are viruses and infectious diseases that migrants bring in from exotic countries, and these are the biggest problems. This bill can function properly if the migrants are kept here. This, in my opinion - and I said it there - will be more about the quota system, because there is no epidemiological situation at the moment, because we are only transit countries, so they are passing through us. I asked the chief of staff two questions. I asked him if the means to transport them had been disinfected, and now I'm thinking of a train, a bus. The Chief of Staff gave a reassuring answer, saying that the employees of the MÁV are carrying out this disinfection. However, I also believe that germ-free treatment should be investigated so that the civilian population can then use it. They listed the diseases that are more characteristic, such as hepatitis C, syphilis, TB, the most dangerous that occur, and now there were precedents in Germany, the leprosy, the typhoid, if we mention the infection that occurred in the camp in Turkey, and the repulsion and lice. But very dangerous are calici and rotaviruses, which are more related to the masses. We had two amendments which were not accepted by the Committee. One is that we would tighten the gap between leaving the transit zone and entering the community. This should not only be a screening test but also a negative result. I'll go straight back to the rotavirus. When one finds out that he has such a disease, like a small child, he is not allowed into a community. Similarly, we cannot allow migrants to have a positive status. A doctor in Kecskemét has already been treated separately in relation to an accident in August or early September because he said that all patients should be considered an infectious source until their negative status has been established. He did the right thing, and it wasn't the law at the time. By the way, we'll support you. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-19-264	Thank you very much. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm asking who you want to speak to. [[Dr. László György Lukács reporting.]] Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-265	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, what needs to be summarised on the basis of this bill is, of course, how the state stands and how the parties stand to protect the Hungarian population from the epidemiological situation caused by migrants, immigrants and illegal immigrants. It must be stated in the first place, and Jobbik considers this to be the most acceptable and only position, so that such persons do not enter, pass through, or develop a state of contact, either through the means of public transport mentioned by Lajos Rig, or using our public spaces, and do not infect otherwise healthy society. So, first of all, be it a fence, be it a border lock - we say that a health border lock is the best way to stop migrants in this case beyond the physical border lock - so there must be a border lock that keeps them away. But if they do come to us for some reason - and this is why, for example, the quota system for rejection, which can only be mentioned in the voice of rejection - if they are already here, then a fully functioning system must be adapted to the Hungarian legislation, in which it is possible not only to filter them, but also to prevent them from moving. This bill, although Jobbik will nevertheless support the amendment, does not contain the guarantees on the basis of which their personal freedom may be limited in this way. So these people will only enter on the sole condition that they have attended a screening. But we won't know the results of the screening. For example, the condition for the entry of these persons from the transit zone in Hungary, as the legislation states, will simply be whether they have been screened. However, screening will do nothing without knowing the results and acting in accordance with the results. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary is still curious, and I look forward to the fact that in its closing words the Secretary of State may be able to answer that question, how much these screenings will cost, what number we have to calculate. Now, when we see that there is an increased budgetary pressure to deal with the migrant situation, what numbers should be known and what numbers should be seen behind it, which, on the basis of this amendment to the Health Act, will be charged to the Hungarian budget. For example, does the Hungarian administration have sufficient resources to deal with this, or does the ÁNTSZ have a sufficient budget framework? The Jobbik Movement for Hungary presented the two amendments which had been voted down in order to guarantee the highest possible security for people and to provide the greatest possible security not only for Hungarian citizens, but also for migrants arriving here, as the infection between them could be prevented by even keeping track of what infections they have. Once again, therefore, we would like to recommend the amendments that we have asked for a separate vote. Now Fidesz-KDNP has the opportunity to show it to them, but also to the other parties, to prove that it is really important to them that people, the safety of Hungarian citizens and the full resolution of the epidemiological threats are removed. We therefore continue to ask that you consider and support any better amendments that would otherwise be tightening and guaranteeing greater security in the final vote. Once again, I urge you to consider this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-19-266	Thank you. Mr. István Tukacs, MSZP. Here.
u2015-10-19-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think I would like to repeat two basics here. One of the basics about the bill was that it was written in a situation that was special. Not automatic, but in the event of a declared crisis. It is necessary to fix this because it leads to some conclusions, and it is also possible for us to wish that this type of crisis should not occur and that it should not be announced. The second is that it is necessary to make it clear again that, in the event of a health crisis being declared, it is because we know what we are dealing with, but in the event of a mass arrival, we must consider the provisions of the law precisely because we do not know what we are dealing with. With this in mind, I would like to reiterate the doubts that we have already expressed. In particular, the fact that the publication of screenings only applies to registered persons, however, if there is a situation that has already been presumed by the legislative community that there may be a prison after an illegal border crossing, it is a situation where screening would also be necessary, since it is not registered, but it is in an environment where it can be infected. Another such doubt relates to what some have already repeated, namely whether there is sufficient infrastructure and strength in a situation like this to consistently complete everything. The third is what is the consequence of the screening, in Hungarian, what happens afterwards. I said and I say that we support the law so that it never has to be applied. Although the trial of the law was very ember, and had little to do with the situation arising from the crisis and to be announced by the Chief Officer, it had to be recorded in this ember debate, in general, that these were the days when refugees were transported by train and bus at our southern borders, and they were dropped off at Hegyeshalom. So we didn't see them in the East, we didn't see them in the West, we didn't see them all over the country. At the time, it was surprising to me, too, that the Minister of the Interior's communication, which was carried through the country, was carried out in such a way that, according to the Minister of Interior, not everyone was registered, which makes the implementation of the Schengen principles doubtful, with which the majority of governments argued. [[18.30]] Well, aside from that, I think there's a law here. I would very much like to do so, and I think that Mrs Ildikó Dr Bene would also like it not to be applied. [[Dr. Bene Ildikó nodds.]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-19-268	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, the time frame of the faction. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The last sentence of my fellow Member Tukacs is my first sentence. So, yes, it should never take place to apply, but if applicable, then there should be the appropriate conditions for that. Therefore, this kind of support and support of the bill is not questionable, but I cannot ignore and ignore the fact that this story is a little bit post-shot. So it's not born at a time when it was already justified. I hope it won't be later, but I'm sure it would have been, because we have experiences. If we take into account the indications of the Immigration and Nationality Office, perhaps in the context of the general debate it has been mentioned from the mouths of others how many initiatives have been taken, not thousands, not tens of thousands, but many tens of thousands, in the order of more than 50 thousand people, and if I remember the number correctly, it was filtered in 737 cases. The other part of the matter, which I do not want to ignore again, is that if and if we take into account the laws and regulations in force that exist independently of this bill, they would have given me the opportunity to manage properly, but this is past tense, so I don't want to be stuck here. But I would like to highlight one item here, too, which may seem to be not closely related to this draft law, but I think that it deserves to be mentioned in every draft law of this type. And that is that, obviously, if there are such problems, the treatment of this should be done, but let us never forget what kind of infectious diseases may arise, be born and accumulated in Hungary, regardless of the issue of transit and immigration. This is what I said and said here, in the context of the general debate between Parliament's walls, so that there is no regulatory system for Hungarians, practically for Hungarians living here, to draw the possibility to exclude the possibility to prevent it, to exclude it, for example, in respect of a normal, simple lung screening. It is that if a person leaves for the second time in a given year because he has to leave in a forced way, because he/she considers that he/she may have a problem and wants to prevent the problem from occurring and spreading to others in a preventive way, then this person will have to pay HUF 1700 for the second lung screening in that year. And unfortunately, there are many Members in this country whose payment of HUF 1700 represents a level of financial burden that is practically inexorable. I know that for you - or I can say that for us - it may not be possible to follow why this is priceless, but believe me, people who live their lives with a minimum pension of 28 500 forints, or who, thanks to you, live their lives with a salary of 52,000 forints in public employment now or a minimum wage of 5 thousand forints less than five years ago, this is also a very large item for those who pay 1700 forints. So I would also like to ask you, with great respect, with regard to the adoption of this draft law, that, while not here and now, but in the coming period, the establishment of their regulatory systems should not be such a duplicate payment obligation for people who, precisely in order to protect the health of others, want to take preventive action to preserve their own health. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-19-270	Congresswoman Bene Ildikó, Fidesz, next. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very brief, after my fellow Member Gur has said this for the second time, and it is not, in fact, closely related to the law, but allow me to respond to it. So, preventively, going to lung screening twice a year is not prevention. If someone has a problem and has a disease, then yes, he will get a free and free examination, and so will an X-ray without any payment. So the screening tests do have a pattern. If anyone is filtered out, then it's perfectly natural that it happens on a social security basis, and you don't have to do lung screening twice a year, because that's not good either. So this is part of it. The other part, and I would like to say it closely in connection with the law - we have said it several times, too, Mr Tukacs, and we have to agree to that - is that this law concerns the situation where a special, special case arises. Technically, I have to say that our professionals, who have worked and continue to do their job well, the experts of the ÁNTSZ know very well when and what kind of screening needs to be done. We do not need everyone who arrives in Hungary to undergo screening, we have the professional rules and competences on the basis of which we have to carry out this investigation, and it is absolutely natural that we are also prepared to treat them afterwards, even in diseases that do not occur every day in Hungary. I would like to highlight one thing, and we have said this many times that dealing with this situation is a complex treatment method. Here, some of it is, indeed, the recognition and treatment of the disease, if necessary, but this is a complex situational treatment that brings together quite serious public health and other factors, which is necessary, and some of it is the current proposal to amend the health law that we are talking about. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-272	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. Congressman Nándor Gúr!
u2015-10-19-273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In this short one minute, I would just like to say that if and if so, as has been said earlier, I would suggest that the actors of the government, the health care operators, remove from the walls and boards of health care institutions the signs which I see not only, but also those who wish to use the service, which is about the payment of HUF 1700 for the second lung screening. That's all I'm asking, so that people can see clearly that they don't have to pay anything for second lung screening in the given year. Thank you very much. [[Gyula Vantara: The informant is wrong! We need to replace the informant. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-19-274	Anybody else want to tell me? [[Defiance. István Tukacs: Thank you, no more.]] No. Dear Parliament, As I concluded that no one would comment, the debate is closed. I will now ask the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yes.]] I wish. Eight minutes, 36 seconds, counting. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-275	Thank you very much. I'm just trying to use the 36-second part of it. I'd like to answer the questions quickly. It has been said how much it will cost, how much it has cost so far. We have spent more than 200 million forints on health screening of illegal immigrants. Obviously, this would have been much bigger if those who were required to be screened before the doctor, but this didn't happen, but less than 10 percent did. Obviously, no one would like to declare any crisis in any country, but at the same time Hungary must prepare for the health of the citizens here to introduce such a crisis if necessary. And to the point that we only filter registered ones: we filter anyone who is caught by the authorities either on the green line or otherwise, and they are subject to alien law enforcement proceedings. I think it is in our interest that this legislation be born. Fortunately, Hungary seems to have been able to solve the problem in other ways, but if this were to arise again, the doctor should have the opportunity, and for him, because he can tell exactly what disease groups, in what part of the country the screening is needed. Therefore, it is not a general, but an individual decision, as we obviously do not filter tourists coming here individually from whatever country they come from, so it is only justified in the case of immigrants. Obviously, we must be careful with taxpayers' money, even because the European Union has so far covered 3.5 percent of our immigration expenditure in the spirit of European solidarity. Therefore, because 96.5 percent is paid by Hungarian taxpayers, we must take greater care of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.40]]
u2015-10-19-276	Bravo! Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the adoption of the report on the financial year 2011 to 31 May 2011 of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund is now under discussion. H/6382 submitted by the Economic Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Erik Bánki, Economic Committee. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-277	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There are exactly four proposals in today's plenary debate, and we are discussing today's reports on the period from 31 May 2011 to 1 January 2015. Since it is not possible for us to discuss the proposals in a joint debate, Mr President, let me add a little longer than the first presentation, I will, of course, be shorter than the other proposals. In 2010, it was decided that Hungary's parliament would establish a two-pillar pension system on the proposal of the government. There were two main reasons behind the decision, namely the legitimate need to reduce the burden of debt services and public debt, and the lack of preparation of private pension funds for the upcoming benefit period. The Hungarian State is the CLIV of 2010 on the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund and certain legislative amendments relating to the conduct of the free choice of pension funds. the possibility for its citizens to return from the private pension scheme to the public pension scheme, so that private pension fund members themselves had to decide whether they wanted to maintain their membership of the fund or to withdraw from the public system. As part of the agreement, the recurring members transferred their portfolio of private pension funds to the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, which was spent on debt reduction according to the original plans. On 31 May 2011, the Fund took over an asset of nearly HUF 3000 billion on the basis of the book value of that day, which was spent entirely on debt reduction, in addition to the payment of HUF 232 billion in real earnings and the assets that held permanent government ownership transferred to the Hungarian National Asset Manager. The members also had the opportunity to withdraw to the state pension system in 2012 the following year, and, as a general rule, we can talk about a much lower rate here, and it was 51 billion forints, which came to the fund the following year as a result of the withdrawal. On its website, the Government Debt Management Centre, which functions as a trustee of the Fund, regularly published data on the portfolio received, which could also be followed and verified by the public, so I think that the Fund has managed to record the decisions relating to the exploitation of the transferred property in a sufficient manner, with sufficient prudentness and sufficient transparency. Everyone who was interested in how the assets transferred back from private pension funds to the public system turned out, so they could track it through the website. In addition, the fund produced a regular report every year, which is now being discussed by the Parliament, so there may have been numerous questions or opinions on demand during the negotiations of the reports. I think that the essential elements of these legislative proposals have been thoroughly discussed. A number of details could be discussed during the committee meeting, which had already been made public, and it can be seen that, after very few amendments had been tabled to the package, no criticisms were made by the opposition, as a matter of fact, which could have had a significant impact on these reports. So I think, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, from what has been said in the Commission debate, that there is no obstacle to the adoption of the report that we are discussing in plenary today. I call on my fellow Members to be the first to support the report on the period from 31 May 2011 to 31 December 2011. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-278	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak now. [[András Tállai: Not now.]] He doesn't want to say anything right now. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I ask you to act according to the agreement between the factions. The first of the speakers announced was Mr Sándor Bodó, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-279	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear House, As my fellow Member said, the committee responsible for Parliament held a detailed debate on the proposal for a decision adopting its report on the financial year of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund from 31 May 2011 to 31 December 2011. During the in-depth discussion, the Committee discussed the amendment tabled by the Members in the Annex to the report, examining whether the amendment was appropriate under Article 42 TEU. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. Ladies and gentlemen, Although the committee did not accept it, allow me to respond to the amendments tabled, as they also contain misleading statements and suggestions that need to be corrected. The Members submitted an amendment to each of the five-year accounts, but the substance is in the proposals submitted to the 2011 report, the rest only asked for an SAO inquiry and proposed to postpone the adoption of the reports. The first statement made in the amendments is that it is illegal that the governing body of the fund is 2o11. It started operating on 18 May 2011, even though legislation containing detailed rules for the Fund's activities was adopted only on 31 May 2011. On the other hand, it is true that the law establishing the fund, in force from 22 December 2010, states that the fund's main decision-making body is the governing body. The Law 4-7 and 9 respectively. Its sections provide for the structure, powers and responsibilities of the body. Accordingly, the alleged violation of the law must therefore be rejected. The second charge sounds that the governing body of the fund already authorised by ÁKK Zrt. on 18 May 2011. A detailed sales strategy was developed, but this was implemented and adopted only on 6 October 2011. On the other hand, the development of the sales strategy was not a statutory obligation in terms of time. Even before the strategy was recorded in writing, the Governing Board decided, in practice, on the basis of the principles of sales, which were subsequently included and accepted in writing. It should also be added that the sales strategy continued to serve as a guide and that market changes which were not visible when the strategy was recorded in writing had to be taken into account in each decision. The third claim of the Members was that the Fund operated for five months after its establishment on 31 May 2011 without a code of conduct. In contrast, the fact is that the fund did not have an independent working organisation, so the administrative processes are ÁKK Zrt. have been regulated in accordance with its internal rules. Thus, among other things, ÁKK Zrt. 17/2008 Bszt., issued by the Executive Director. the rules of conduct governing the activities covered by this Regulation, as well as the rules of business adopted in 2008 and referred to in the contract between the GOK and the Fund, contained the conditions for effective operation, whereas the Fund's specific rules of administration contained technical additions to the GOK's otherwise applicable regulations. [[18.50]] In the fourth point, the fund was also accused of being authorised to select the transaction manager on 18 May 2011 by the CEO of the GOK, but the contract with him was concluded only on 18 August 2011. On the other hand, the fact is that the management of a portfolio of this magnitude could only be entrusted to a company selected in a competitive procedure offering the most advantageous conditions for the State, which was selected as soon as possible. The selection was carried out by invitation to tender, both the person invited and the text of the invitation to tender were approved by the Governing Board at its meeting on 23 June 2011. The results were also approved by the Governing Board at its meeting, which also took place on 5 July 2011. After that, the number 46/2011. In accordance with the government decree, prior approval by the Ministry of National Development was also necessary for the conclusion of the contract. Finally, the fifth claim that the decision on the custody of foreign securities was taken by the Governing Board only took note of the decision was not legal. The selection procedure could also be irregular as ÁKK Zrt. was only contacted by UniCredit Bank Zrt. The truth shows otherwise here, as according to the relevant law of 2010, the fund held a securities deposit and securities account at ÁKK Zrt., as well as a customer account, 87/2011. According to the government decree, ÁKK Zrt. may have recourse to a third party for the performance of its duties. The claim concerning the lawlessness of the depositary's selection procedure is therefore rejected, that is ÁKK Zrt. He had jurisdiction. After the execution of depositaries services related to the fund's assets, after the execution of a restricted tender, for which five companies have submitted tenders, ÁKK Zrt. KELER Zrt. has been entrusted with domestic securities and UniCredit Bank Hungary Zrt. with depositaries related to foreign securities, the governing body 6/2011. Based on Decision No 1/2005/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Since all the claims made in the above amending points have been found to be unfounded, we can now move on to the actual functioning of the Fund. The Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund was assigned a historical task when it was entrusted with the management of the assets accumulated in the second pillar. The Fund carried out its statutory tasks with due care and due diligence in the context of often stormy international financial market conditions, paid payments, such as real return payments to private bank members, and properly executed the accounts with the cashier in full compliance with the law. All in all, we can therefore conclude that we have not only fulfilled the economic and political promise since 2010, that we have protected the Hungarian pension system and that we can provide pensioners with a stable source in the long term until 2060. Moreover, we have managed to reduce public debt, which remains below the EU average, and not least to the last penny, we have managed to repay the IMF loan. On the basis of the above, therefore, I would like to ask for your support and thank you for listening. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-19-280	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next speaker Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP. Here.
u2015-10-19-281	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to take advantage of the time that I have at my disposal, because we have to negotiate here for five years, although I am trying to express my opinion in this one voice. It was very interesting what Congressman Bodó has said here, because in part there has been so much talk in this Parliament about the operation of the fund and, in part, the restructuring of the whole pension system, in this House for the last four years, that there is neither an increase in the number of speeches. The last one was not a separate agenda, but we also had to address this issue in the 2015 budget year. No one has ever said the arguments Mr Bodo has just made here. I just hope that these decisions have not been produced ex post, and I hope that they have not made subsequent decisions that have now been supported by various documents here by Congressman Bodo. Last week, when this was on the agenda here in Parliament, I said that we consider it unacceptable and unprofessional that 3.2 million people's savings of nearly HUF 3 000 billion have been practically booked here in the last few weeks. This report did not mention any scandals, contradictions and serious irregularities that were identified in 2011 and 2012; I discussed long-term regulatory shortcomings, malfunctions in operation and comments on the preparation of the foreign securities depositaries' contracts. I would like to emphasise that this so-called regulation of business, which regulated the operation-related business of managing and selling financial assets that have been owned by the fund, is a fact that I would like to reiterate that I hope that they have not been documented in hindsight. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address, for a few sentences, the press conference of Minister Lazarus this week. Minister Lazarus said that the point in Hungarian is that what was promised in 2010 will not be, because the issue of an individual account is incomprehensible. Ladies and gentlemen, If Minister Lazarus now declares that there will never be an individual account, because this issue is incomprehensible in the pay-as-you-go system, when this decision was made - did the members of the government not know that in a pay-as-you-go system, the pension system does not function as a hedge scheme, that the contributions paid are not supposed to be collected on a collection account and that the pension is not determined on this basis? - There's three million people being fooled here, and not a year has passed, and a member of the government admits that everyone here has been fooled. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister further said that there is no need for it, because in the social security pension system the rules of the game are different. To tell you the truth, I was only partially surprised because I practically knew what this was about, a October 2010 government resolution. My consistent position has always been that - I put it in quotes - I considered this rubber bone to be a kind of pawn blinding, which the pro-government side has repeatedly expressed in the debates of many years ago regarding individual accounts. But such a responsible member of the government has not yet admitted this. You will remember, fellow Members, that not only the individual bill has been promised, but it has also been said, among other things, that the money paid so far will be inherited. In fact, it is not possible to indicate the paid pension contribution objectively, because the indication of the paid pension contribution, please, is not carried out on an individual account, but is carried out with a register of which, of course, will constitute a pension, but is primarily related to the determination of the period of employment and taking into account the contribution of the pension paid from taxable income. There has been a record of a number of years of pension contributions and a recorded pension contribution. There is no need to say this particularly, and I think that these should be discussed every time we speak, and it should be pointed out that the Minister has acknowledged this, that practically 3 million people have been deceived by 2012. [[19.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned in my speech the other day, we do not support the adoption of this report, and, yes, we have noted the amendment that would enable the State Audit Office to look at it in a certain way in the future and report to Parliament on this nearly five-year period, because in many cases we have explained the problems with deadlines, the problems with legislation, the problems with the uncoordinated legislation, the fact that the fund and the ÁKK have often carried out activities that were illegal even without implementing regulations. That is why the complaint that my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó recorded about two years ago was also issued and, unfortunately, rejected by the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. In fact, the prosecution did not have any serious arguments in this regard, not to mention that what my fellow Member Bodo said here, having specifically referred to my speech in Parliament, has never been said here in life, within the framework of the Parliament. Thank you so much for listening. Have a good evening.
u2015-10-19-282	Thank you very much. Congressman János Volner is next, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-283	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We're dealing with a proposal that Jobbik can't accept. We cannot accept it because the way in which the Orbán government forced its hand on the private pension fund savings of 3 million people, the way in which it acted in violation of its electoral promises on this pension issue, is simply unacceptable, and the report on this is, of course, unacceptable. Back in 1998, the Horn government created the private pension fund within the framework of a three-pillar pension scheme. The first pillar was the pay-as-you-go public pension system, which, with all its faults, remained a still collapsed demography, but in addition to the collapse of demography, people currently active can't trust that they will have an adequate pension in decades, as demographic trends show that by 2050 Hungarian society will have twice as much dependency as it will be working in that period. This is therefore a very important thing to say that the current pension system does not solve this problem. It is important to see that the reason for setting up the second pillar, the private pension fund system, was that they were trying to provide funding in the event that this negative demographic process would continue in the future, and this funding would have been a guarantee that at the time there would be something to pay pensions for these people. In the third pillar, voluntary private pension funds were the money that people voluntarily put into a pre-savvy account in order to make a living in their retirement years. The Orbán government intervened in this process by using force to nationalise private pension funds, hijacking 3 million people's own savings, and by the way, I note that they have abused the confidence that people have shown them, because the Hungarian people have said that we will give this money to the state, because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán promised that this money would cost individual accounts, this money will not be spent, but will remain. What happened to that? In two and a half years, the money was fully lived by the second Orbán government. The money has disappeared, Fidesz has lied about individual accounts, because there is still no individual account, and basically, if we now ask, say, a Hungarian who retires 30-40 years from now or 20 years from now, on what grounds he will be able to claim at the door of the pension lender, then now, since there is no funded pillar with the elimination of the private pension fund system, only the pillar of voluntary pension funds, who has money, can save it, so he can rely on one thing: Viktor Orbán's promise decades earlier, that the Fidesz government will protect pensions. Because, my fellow Members, let us not forget, in addition to emphasising individual accounts, the other very important thing was that Viktor Orbán promised to protect pensions. Instead, pensions were well protected, spending the total amount of HUF 3000 billion of private pension funds. It is also important to see that if we want to tackle the problem of older people through the pension system, we also need to see that the sustainability of the pension system alone will not solve this issue. It is important to emphasise this because the government is increasing the retirement age and giving less and less older people the opportunity to enjoy the safety of the retirement age, the pension that is constantly coming. At the time Jobbik launched a campaign on the possibility of pensioning men after 40 years of employment, the goal was to make this safety possible for men working four decades, just as women are currently enjoying this institution. The government said that it did not agree with this, because it does not have cover for these measures and does not support the introduction of this. But I ask you, fellow Members - and I am obliged to ask this question again because, during the general debate, a single pro-government representative did not answer that question - that the Central Bank's castle purchase and art purchase programme implemented by György Matolcsy, within which an amount of more than HUF 160 billion is spent, would not be suitable for the transfer of a legal change of only HUF 150 billion, which would allow men to retire after 40 years. We have the budget coverage, because if the Hungarian National Bank gave this money to the budget and we could use it for what we want, then this budget line would be fulfilled, and it would be possible for men to retire after four decades of work. But that was not the important thing for you, but for Matolcsy to buy castles and buy art from the Hungarian taxpayers through the activities of the Hungarian National Bank. Unfortunately, we have to say that. It is also a very important lesson that, although the government has promised that private pension funds will significantly reduce public debt, the figures in this area are unfortunately different. At the end of the first quarter of 2010, when the Orbán government came to power, when the elections took place, the Hungarian government's debt-to-GDP ratio was 80.5 per cent, with 79,6 per cent at the end of the second quarter of 2015. Five years of production is a mere 0.9 per cent reduction in public debt, while the private pension fund assets, which represent 10 per cent of GDP, disappear. I think this balance shows what economic performance, what political performance the Orbán government has been able to deliver in recent years. It is also a very interesting thing that, although the government declared a financial freedom fight, the first opportunity it could get its hands on the savings of the 3 million private pension fund members, the first thing the government had to do was to return the money immediately to banks that were lending Hungary. There was no concept of either economic development or the implementation of a sustainable economic policy, the money was returned, the money was spent, and the people, as you can see from the failure to keep the promises of elections, were fooled. Well, that's why we refuse to accept this report. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-284	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Nándor Gúr would like to speak. [[19.10]]
u2015-10-19-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I could continue the sentences very briefly by protecting pensions, only you protected them from pensioners, and from those people, 40 years of entitlement, who are so few in this country that every fifth person in today's pension system has 40 years of entitlement. So you're not thinking about people, you've never thought about it, as I see it, always in different ways, in how you can get virtually different resources and settle it in the right circles. You can see this because of the EUR 2945 billion confiscation of private pension fund savings, and you can see how this applies to public debt, as there has been an increase in government debt of more than HUF 5000 billion. But even if we look at it as a proportion of GDP, it was 10 percent of GDP, while the gross value of the government debt shows a few percent decrease by using forced year-on-year manipulations. Therefore, there is nothing else to say: these accounts are not credible, even because they should have done so every year, and they are not brought into the walls of Parliament at the same time. And all of your sentences are crooked because you've been talking about the introduction of an individual pension account for years, while you haven't made any of this. Well, that's what your word on retirement and other matters is worth. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-10-19-286	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No one's reporting. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. On behalf of the government, Mr Secretary of State wishes to speak now. Here.
u2015-10-19-287	Thank you very much. Allow me to say this very briefly, because it is a discussion of a summation of amendments, and the amendments tabled by the Hungarian Socialist Party have been answered and responded in detail by Fidesz MEP Sándor Bodó. To my full surprise, even Congressman Lajos Korózs said that we should hope so. That's right, and if that's true, then he doesn't really know what to say about that either. So I thank Sándor Bodó very much for saving me the time that I wished to deny in detail the reality of the amendments. Thank you again. As far as the other two speakers are concerned, I cannot respond to János Volner, because I responded to him in the general debate. If you'll allow me, Congressman, I won't give you my answers word for word. I'm a little shocked that you don't recognise the government's debt reduction activities and results. By the way, the whole world recognizes international organizations. You - or I don't know if that's the Jobbik's point of view - you're still not, which I regret very much, but, by the way, I have expressly denied in the general debate. Mr. Korózs, unfortunately, has left. With regard to him, I would like to say that to those who listen to or listen to this debate, I can continue to say that calm down, that is exactly how people's pensions are safe and secure. If he had stayed in this private pension fund, which private people had run and operated on the basis of capital interests, then there would have been a time when, not only the interest rates would not have been there, but also the capital would have disappeared sooner or later. This is the case, so they follow international examples and other countries follow the example of Hungary. After all, it turned out that the state was the most reliable organization, and that's when people were safe, so they didn't stop the establishment of this fund because they trusted the state. And by the way, trust in the state is independent of government, and life has proven that. So, overall, there is no reason why we should not accept this report. I call on Members, most of Parliament, to accept the reports and to close the management of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-10-19-288	Thank you very much. As rapporteur, Congressman Erik Bánki has a maximum of five minutes and 20 seconds. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! First, I would like to join Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, in finding that pension funds, pensioners, future pensioners are in the best place in the state. It has been said here on several occasions by opposition representatives that private pension funds operating on a market basis would have been more efficient, with higher results and lower costs than state funds do. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to give you some examples, which prove the opposite, and to support what we are talking about with the Secretary of State, that the state has the best place to save pensions. In terms of operating costs, the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund has spent around HUF 600 million on its own operation over the past period. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that the fund's operation cost less than HUF 200 million a year, as opposed to private pension insurance companies, which, between 1998 and 2011, - hold on, ladies and gentlemen - spent 150 billion forints on their own operation, 150 billion forints. That means he spent just 100 times the amount of money the state fund spends every year. So we're looking at HUF 17 billion against HUF 200 million. I think that we can call this everything, but not exactly responsible behaviour in the interests of Hungarian citizens. But let's look at the returns. If they couldn't function cheaply, they might have brought higher returns than they could, say, a state pension insurance company. I am only looking at the case where money would have been invested in the most guaranteed mode, i.e. sovereign debt, the most guaranteed savings, sovereign debt. Please, ladies and gentlemen, between January 1998 and December 2010, an average Hungarian worker paid nearly HUF 1.7 million to private pension funds. This increased to HUF 2.3 million by the end of 2010. Conversely, if their savings had been invested in sovereign debt, they could have been HUF 2.5 million for every Hungarian average worker with a 30 percent higher return. So I think that in terms of average return, we see a hundred times the price of operation, and in terms of yield, we see a 30 percent less result than the state pension fund could have guaranteed. So I can't say that a private insurance company was better in any way. My fellow Member, János Volner, said the money was missing. Let me give you an example, honourable Member. The government reduced the government debt by more than HUF 2000 billion using cash, sovereign debt and other securities of some HUF 3000 billion. Mr President, Mr President, you are comparing the 2011 and 2015 figures, but you should have looked at the difference in the short term when the actual debt reduction took place. In addition to HUF 2000 billion, he paid an additional HUF 500 billion into the fund's budget, and in addition, he also saved HUF 283 billion of interest to the state. So I do not think that the money is missing, but that the money has increased, honourable Member. Let me respond to one more remark in the debate that the state has stolen the savings of private pension fund members. Dear fellow Member, You obviously know this, too, that members entering the private pension fund did not pay their contributions from their taxed income, but paid part of it not to the public pension fund, but paid in parallel in the two-pillar insurance scheme to private pension funds. However, once the State completed the Fund's deficit in this way, an increasing budget deficit was created year after year due to the two-pillar pension system. This meant that the additional budget contribution of just HUF 28 billion in 1998 would have increased to HUF 360 billion in 2011 and would have already amounted to HUF 460 billion in 2014, my fellow Member. So this two-pillar system would have imposed a debt burden on the budget that would have been completely meaningless. Not only would the government have disposed of people's money, but it was the people's money that saved such an awful amount of money, because, as I said to you, the operating cost of these private pension funds would have been 100 times higher, and they would have achieved a 30 percent lower return. And then we will not even talk about the fact that, between 2008 and 2012-13, which we have experienced abuses, they have remained in the private pension fund. So I think that there is no reason why these reports should be accepted by Parliament. I think that the fund has worked in a sufficiently thorough and clarified legal context. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[19.20]]
u2015-10-19-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the adoption of the report on the financial year 2012 to 31 December 2012 of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund is now under discussion. H/6371 submitted by the Economic Committee. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[Erik Bánki: No.]] According to the agreement, you have already given your opinion, so you do not wish to speak. I'll ask you if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State. [[András Tállai: No.]] He says he doesn't want to speak either. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. There would now be speeches from its representatives, but according to the agreement between the factions, everyone has already given their opinion. Still, I'll ask if anyone wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No one wants to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to speak, as he did not have a speech to respond to. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Similarly, the discussion of the Commission report on the adoption of the report on the financial year 2013 of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund is followed. H/6374 submitted by the Economic Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The author indicates that he does not wish to speak, and on the government's side, Mr Secretary of State, he does not wish to speak either. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Interventions by Members have already been made under the agreement between the factions. Still, I'll ask if anyone wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm going to make sure no one wants to say anything. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The author has nothing to react to. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the adoption of the report on the financial year of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 follows a discussion. H/6377 submitted by the Economic Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I'm going to ask the author who says he doesn't want to comment. The representative of the government also indicates that he does not wish to speak. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Under the agreement between the political groups, the speeches have already been made. Nevertheless, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The author does not wish to respond to what has not otherwise been said. On this basis, it is concluded that the decisions will take place tomorrow at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the adoption of the report on the financial year of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund from 1 January 2015 to 31 January 2015 follows a discussion. H/6380 submitted by the Economic Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I'll ask the author who says he doesn't want to speak. I'll ask him if he wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[András Tállai: No.]] Secretary of State says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Under the agreement between the factions, speeches have already been made on this subject. However, I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The rapporteur does not wish to react, as appropriate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that the rapporteur initiated the convening of the Committee on Budgets on the amendment of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 T/6326. The Commission's report will therefore not be debated at this meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain capital markets and insurance laws and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. T/6132 submitted by the Government. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum time frame of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-291	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the House that, at its meeting on 8 October 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/6132 amending certain capital market and insurance laws. Legislative proposal No 10/2014 and the Committee on certain house rules. OGY Decision 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary amending report, with 31 votes in favour and a unanimous decision. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the 20-point amendment proposal of the Economic Committee in the background and one and two amendments of the Legislative Committee. The latter contained codification and other clarification provisions in order to ensure the internal consistency of the bill with regard to both terminology and content issues. The aim of the legislative amendment proposal is to comply with EU legislation and to transpose a legislative harmonisation proposal aimed at strengthening consumer protection. To this end, the bill contains amendments to the Capital Markets Act, the Insurance Act, the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, as well as to the law on forms of collective investment. With a few thoughts, let me summarize the most important points of the legislative amendment proposal. As a further amendment to the capital market area, the draft ensures consistency between the directly applicable EU regulation on European long-term investment funds and the law on collective investment forms and the MNB law. The change in the area of insurance defines the concept of a basic interest rate differential within the meaning of its consistent applicability. The requirement for a securities-distributor test is deleted, which is necessary because the underlying capital market requirements do not impose such a condition. The amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary concerns both the previous two areas, within which the publication requirements are created, and even the breach of information obligations on the capital market significantly increases the level of fines that the MNB can impose. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support T/6132. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-19-292	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[András Tállai: Yes.]] Secretary of State says yes. You have the floor, please.
u2015-10-19-293	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Although Mr President has also touched on some of the amendments, I would like to give a brief summary, if I may. The debate presented proposals for amendments on a cross-cutting basis. Most of these are motions for codification and other clarification legislation, which are of course supported by the government. [[19.30]] Let me also address the following other proposals for amendments. In Parliament's decision-making, one of the most important amendments to the bill is that, in order to avoid duplication, the detailed rules relating to the report on the solvency and financial situation of insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings have been changed, as most of them are contained in a government regulation and a Commission regulation that is directly in force. In order to ensure consistency with the so-called Rome I Regulation, the legislation on insurance contracts has also been clarified. The obligation to inform customers of the choice of law has been prescribed. Dear Parliament, In addition, the proposed amendment clarifies the norm in the light of confidentiality provisions and allows the insurance or reinsurance undertaking concerned to publish not only the supervisory decision but also a judicial decision in the context of its judicial review on its website. In addition, the requirement for a securities-distributor test has been deleted for the person managing the insurance undertaking's own asset management activity, because the underlying capital market requirement does not impose such a condition. Finally, as has already been said, the concept of the basic interest rate differential has also been defined in order to ensure its consistent applicability. Dear House, Thank you for your cooperation, and I would like to ask you, together with the amendments, to adopt the bill.
u2015-10-19-294	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, of which Mr Gyula Vantara is the first. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are looking at a summary amendment to the Capital Markets Act. Before presenting the points of the summarised amendment, let me remind you that the purpose of the amendment is to implement certain EU legislation, while, as has been said, strengthening consumer protection. To this end, the bill contains amendments to the Capital Markets Act, the Insurance Act, the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, as well as to the law on forms of collective investment. Amendments containing codification and other clarification provisions in points 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 15-17 and 20 and 21 of the summarised amendment proposal in order to ensure consistency of the bill with regard to both terminology and content issues. Point 2 of the proposal defines the concept of a basic interest rate differential in order to ensure its consistent applicability. The cancellation of the requirements for the securities-distributor test, as has been said, is indeed necessary because the capital market requirement system does not impose such a condition. Points 5, 10 and 13-14 are detailed in relation to the solvency and financial situation report relating to insurance and insurance activities. Most of the above points are referred to as Solvency II. The Commission's Regulation of 10 October 2014 supplementing the Directive provides that the relevant provisions should be amended in order to avoid duplication. Point 18 of the proposal contains codification and other clarification provisions, also in order to ensure internal consistency, the use of words and the context of content. The bill is 67. In particular, it is necessary to amend point 29 of Article 29 of Regulation (EC) No 593/2008 in order to ensure consistency. Point 19 is LXXXV of 2015 amending the bill in order to promote the development of the financial intermediary system. It is necessary to ensure consistency with the law and to ensure consistency of the legislation referred to. In addition to complying with the EU directives, the proposed legislation and the above clarification will help to improve the functioning of insurance and capital market activities, which is why I ask you to support them. Mr President, Thank you for listening. Dear House, Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-19-296	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Mr Jobbik. Here.
u2015-10-19-297	Mr President, Dear House, We must say that our arguments during the general debate still stand, saying that you are very ashamed of the fact that there is only a proposal for an implementing bill to strengthen consumer protection, while, at systemic level, we have seen the opposite in recent years. It should also be noted that the expansion of the MNB's responsibilities has already enriched the general debate with a number of issues that should be welcomed here at the virtually detailed stage. But to talk specifically about what belongs to this: among the amendments there was one that was very important, and it shows us at systemic level what our problem is with all of this. This was the case with regard to the obligation to provide information to customers. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State also thought it important to address this issue, but despite the fact that insurance and reinsurance undertakings would be obliged to publish the decision of supervision on their website, but in the light of the examination of life-likeness, there may also be a crowd of Members of Parliament in a situation where they may not even be aware of the identity of their own insurance company after each round, let alone follow their website on a weekly basis. Therefore, it would be a minimum requirement, say, to notify victims, customers individually, in the form of a minimum letter in the event of a bankruptcy or a chaotic situation similar to an Astra insurance undertaking. So to propose life-like, life-sounding solutions that are not satisfied with the fact that, in addition to a bouquet of legislation that has been transposed into the Hungarian legal order, they are still trying to cosmeticize such things on an implementation-based basis. Therefore, there would be plenty of room to deal with these problems in their entire circle. Once again, not only in the form of a supervisory decision on a website, but also in the honour of customers, honoring potential victims by not only informing them in a letter that they have to pay, but also by allowing them to take the necessary countermeasures if they are in trouble. In the context of the expansion of the MNB's responsibilities, we have said and will say many times, and based on a truly amazing economic policy, this organisation has an amazing business policy. When it is able to make extensive profits, it is supposedly based on a pro-cyclical approach, in real estate and in assets that, say, in a recessionary period where these elements should be reached out, may be the most difficult to mobilise, the hardest to sell. Even in the event of a crisis, the price of the property in question will first fall to a very low level, and it can be said that what is happening is not an ambitious business policy. We can be quite certain that if hundreds of billions of profits were to accumulate, say, in the so-called settlement of the situation of credit victims, which was very far from a fair settlement, but the fact that the hundreds of billions accumulated at the MNB would have been the minimum, say, to group at least some of this into a compensation fund, and to help people who have already been evicted or lost their families Mostly without their own faults. So you could have thought along a much wider margin. It's a pity you didn't have the courage to do that. The fact is that technical amendments, such as codification, can be supported. Basically, this implementation package is not such a problem either, since it has a number of forward-looking phenomena in terms of fines, even in terms of its exchange rate, but, overall, at systemic level, you have unfortunately not proved to be brave enough once again. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-298	Thank you very much. Mr. László Szakács, MSZP. Here. [[19.40]]
u2015-10-19-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker also stopped, because we believe that every single bill submitted, the timing of the submission, has the same meaning that we want to solve the problems when it comes to them. And our position on this issue is that it is not enough to do so that the instrument, which this proposal alone and the proposals for amendments to this proposal in themselves, involve themselves because they do not draw enough conclusions from the past. By the way, from the not too distant past, as we see here that the MNB's role has been expanded in 2013, and it also performs quasi-consumer protection tasks, since the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions has been merged into the Hungarian National Bank, with all its tasks, of course. Then we saw that in the spring of 2015, specific systems collapsed, and I think that if the government only reacts to this with a technical shift, text shift, a copy-paste, we think it does not draw the right lessons, at least from recent events. I would like to highlight a key phrase that was said before me: the victims do not know where to turn when they get into trouble. And I think that during this period, when the large brokerage companies collapsed in the spring, Buda-Cash collapsed, the Hungaria collapsed, and not least the Quaestor collapsed; even at Quaestor, they do not know where to turn, which is an exceptional case, if there is proper information, and they have set up appropriate organizations that do not work, but we believe that much more substance should be given to the supervisory powers of the National Bank, the role of consumer protection in what it is taking a big step forward, but does not really take an effective step forward, I believe, in this government. I do not want to refer back many times, the Hungarian National Bank led by György Matolcsy accumulates essentially dangerous and at least questionable financial maneuvers, but rather political maneuvers. In addition to the fact that each of these financial or legal bases does not necessarily exist, or does not necessarily stand on its feet, since it performs the procedures and tasks which it should be associated with, such as the dissemination of monetary culture and the promotion of economic research. I do not think that 200 billion should be spent on this, and on the other hand, consumer protection is not necessarily reflected in the work of the Hungarian National Bank. We are pleased that the government has recognised this, and we are pleased that the government, if late, is trying to do so, we believe that if it has recognised that it now has opportunity, responsibility and responsibility, it is right for the government to recognise this, and we can only put it aside that it would have been better if it had known this responsibility before the broker scandals exploded. Because let's face it, these rules could have been transposed into the Hungarian legal order for years, and let's face it that if the law had been so strict or perhaps even more stringent, since Hungarian relations could have been better known, it would not have been possible to issue more bonds to Quaestor by HUF 150 billion compared to the license. Not everyone who invested HUF 210-220 billion in Quaestor could run for their money now, and otherwise this broker company could do so by writing on the issued papers and issued bonds that they would not take any kind of guarantee. This could be done by the fact that before the eyes of consumer protection, the Hungarian National Bank supplying consumer protection, the issuer was completely different, the seller was completely different, and the contracting party was completely different, and did so by doing so in front of the eyes of the consumer protection organisation that was supposed to provide it. This supervision did not perform any test purchase, did not want to introduce stricter procedures, did not want to make stricter emission proposals, did not want to impose such conditions in its own power and probably did not signal to the government. In other words, it was good for them the way it was for them at the time. Now, however, there are over 32,000 victims, only one case, and I believe that the government is not effective enough. It will not be enough, I think, to transpose the framework which, because of EU legislation, is now the government's responsibility because of the need to comply with the EU. But now there is an opportunity to review the very, very specific Hungarian financial system, the most risky system of financial services provided by broker companies, to look at it, to look for those thin points, the small gaps in which these companies were able to steal an awful amount of money, and I think they should be included in this law. These should be ruled out. This current bill does not answer the specifics of the Hungarian financial system. In addition, of course, we will support it, but we must say that we regard it as little. We find it very short because the kind of memory, professional or political memory in this matter, which is up to HUF 32 thousand injured or HUF 210-220 billion, let us say it together, is a billion dollars, which have disappeared here and there, while the supervision that does not perform this task should be more focused on strengthening consumer protection. I think that this proposal is good for its purpose, but these situations should not be explored, they should not only be explored, it would be best to prevent them. It can be prevented by proper regulation and by appropriate strict laws. If possible, please reflect on today's Hungarian reality. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-19-300	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa if he wants to speak again, because then the opportunity will be given. Here.
u2015-10-19-301	Mr President, Dear House, The area of consumer protection itself has been raised many times during the explanations, and two opposition representatives also ask for answers, in order to clarify how the government stands on this issue. After all, we can look at the fact that in the previous cycle, it was a separate Consumer Protection Committee, and now it is no longer so, integrated into the Economic Committee, the weight of this area has also been greatly reduced in terms of the legislator. There was also another institution, the financial commissioner, which was practically grounded and then integrated elsewhere. This also deserves to be explained where the functions removed from there have been tried to be filled by the government, and how successfully it has done so. Also, as mentioned above, there is a clear process in the case of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank that the core activity is increasingly being pushed into the background, so the normal activity that we can treat as a basis, and the so-called additional activities, the development of educational programmes, real estate, art investments, etc., so-called additional activities are increasingly falling into the front space. And here is also the question of what the government has been able to present in five years now about trying to transfer financial knowledge through a basic or intermediate education system, if any. In fact, while the MNB seems to develop expensive educational programmes, there is a failing task here, and this is the introduction into public education in some way. And let's think about it, if the Hungarian population had been better prepared from basic financial knowledge, then perhaps all of us would have seen through the foreign exchange crisis much sooner, and this could have saved the country hundreds of billions, in addition to the fact that the responsibility does not belong to the Hungarian population, but to the banks concerned. But while the MNB is operating with expensive educational programmes, it is questionable whether it has done enough and whether the government is, by the way, encouraging it to do enough to ensure that basic financial knowledge in primary and secondary education is in some way reflected in their weight. And you have to see that I am not alone in this accusation that there has not been enough action in this area. For example, at a conference in Portfolio, the reason for the MNB material itself was that they were able to achieve very little advance at the level of access to public education. So, if the implementation package is already, if it is no longer strictly this topic, it would be very important to discuss these very important issues on a semi-annual basis or once a year, because the government justifies its intention to carry this law through by strengthening consumer protection, while in reality, in the space of reality, we see quite different movements. It would therefore be worth clarifying where the government intends to go with regard to these issues. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[19.50]]
u2015-10-19-302	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2015-10-19-303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the short period of time, I would like to draw the government's attention to a specific point, and I would like to continue where my fellow Members have left off that, if there is a political consensus behind this harmonisation of legislation, the government should also use this wave to say that László Szakács talked about how to better enforce consumer protection objectives, as we live on a daily basis that consumers are vulnerable to financial services. They do not know where to turn, they do not have adequate regulators in this regard, and the daily practice shows that these people still feel lost, and we would therefore suggest to the government that they continue this work. The MNB's job would indeed be to focus on this, not to buy real estate and all kinds of pictures, but to review the Hungarian regulations. I would also like to add to this the suggestion to the government that there are a lot of civil society organisations in Hungary that see very clearly and well the practical shortcomings of the day, the vulnerable situation. So it would be worthwhile to start a consultation so that these laws can be adapted even more to daily practice, so that these civilians are also consulted and used by the government, and then, with a subsequent amendment, the right aim, namely to strengthen consumer protection in this area, can be served. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-19-304	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect. [[For signal:]] No. In that case, the debate is closed. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the implementation of the 2014 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority will follow. Presentation by the Committee on Budgets T/4907. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-305	Your Honour, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, CXXXIV of 2010 on media services and mass communication. The National Media and Infocommunication Authority shall submit its accounts for the previous year by 31 May of each year, which shall be adopted by the National Assembly in an independent law, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Act No. The authority complied with this legal obligation, since it had already sent the report to the Committee on Budgets on 20 May. The committee discussed them and submitted them to Parliament at its meeting on 26 May. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to The National Media and Infocommunication Authority shall submit its closing accounts for the previous year by 31 May of each year, which shall be adopted by the National Assembly in an independent law. The authority complied with this legal obligation, since it had already sent the report to the Committee on Budgets on 20 May. The committee discussed them and submitted them to Parliament at its meeting on 26 May. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. (Gr. 11. According to the Government Decree, revenue items will be restructured, resulting in the 2014 budget being recorded in accordance with the new, uniform accounting accounts. The annual accounting reports of the institutional elemental budget, which are the basic documents of the draft discharge act submitted, were consulted by independent auditors invited by the Authority and the Media Council, according to which the accounts provide a reliable and fair picture of the implementation of the budgets and the financial, financial and income situation on 31 December 2014. The draft includes the revenue and expenditure of the NMHH and the Media Council of the NMHH for the year 2014. The 2014 closing report submitted by NMHH accounts for HUF 27 billion of HUF 74 million in revenue and HUF 25 billion of HUF 380 million in expenditure. Dear House, On the Authority's expenditure side, operating costs accounted for approximately 70 percent. More than HUF 900 million was saved in personal allowances compared to the revised appropriations, which was caused by several factors. First of all, there were 630 employees in 2014, compared to the 650 authorised staff, and it should also be noted that savings were also made in external personnel allowances in line with the public sector's expectations. Real estate expenditure within operational expenditure amounted to HUF 10 billion in 2014, which is below the revised appropriations plan. Dear House, Only the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Culture for the Media Authority and the Economic Committee for the Media Council will hold the actual professional report. As a result, I call on this House to discuss and adopt the 2014 annual accounts of the Authority and the Council. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-10-19-306	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government representative has indicated that he does not wish to present his position during the debate. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Simon Róbert Balázs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As usual, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's accounts are discussed by the National Assembly, independently of the country's central budget, which in itself is a complex area, which reports on the implementation of four separate budgets, and these are the reports of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority (NMHH), which presents revenue from the entire supervised communications market, administrative expenditure to Parliament, as well as the reports of the Media Council of the Authority, which presents the implementation of its operating budget, as well as the balance sheet of the Media Council's budget and expenditure on the 2014 media market, and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, which operates on the basis of a public public service contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, We received a comprehensive picture of the draft before us from the author's exposé. It can be said that the closing report submitted shows a thoughtful and cost-effective management of both the media authority and the Media Council. In the case of the media authority, this will save HUF 1.7 billion in personal benefits and accumulation expenses. The Authority received HUF 7.1 billion in additional revenues with HUF 5.3 billion in revenue losses. The additional revenue generated is intended for 2014 commitments, operational support for MTVA, the development of media and rural centres, and the Digi-2 technology shift. Forints 200-200 million have been allocated to improve media awareness and ensure access to communications for people with disabilities. We can agree with all the objectives, because they are extremely important and offer plenty of work to do, so I can only welcome this intention myself. The Media Council's revenue is provided by the resources of MTVA. The savings of HUF 54.1 million as a result of the economy are used for reserve provision. The Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund's public service contribution was realised in HUF 69.9 billion, but the media service fee resulted in more revenue than planned, so the operating support of NMHH resulted in HUF 4.7 billion in budget revenue. [[20.00]] Dear Parliament, After the media authority reports to Parliament every year, my fellow Members well know how serious and diverse the figures cover. On the basis of the reports, the bill and the national information, I can say that the final accounts show overall sound, economical and forward-looking management, which I strongly recommend to my fellow Members on behalf of the Committee on Culture. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-19-308	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Zoltán Lukács is the leading speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-10-19-309	Thank you very much. Ladies and Gentlemen, Talking about savings at all with regard to the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is pointless, because the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is already spending on itself and its activities as many times as it makes any sense. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen. The National Media and Infocommunications Authority was established on 11 August 2010. In our opinion, it has been inexplicably operating without control since then, because Parliament has no control over it, no wallet, no government, and no social control at all. So you can practically do whatever you want without checking. The fact that the government does not have control over it makes me less uncomfortable; the lack of parliamentary control and the lack of social control is much more disturbing. The government has no reason to complain that it has no control over it, because the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is in practice serving the purpose - and has been very diligent in this regard for many years - of assisting the government's media influence or the government's occupation of the public media and ensuring political influence.In January 2011, MTV was formed, the two channels of the Hungarian Television, Duna Television, MTI and Radio were merged, with the aim of eliminating parallels, making media work cheaper, being more efficient and operating at a higher level. After that, a little time passed, and then these companies were reunited, now to the Danube service provider, with the cry of the need to eliminate duplication, the government media must be operated at a much cheaper rate - you call it public media, but there is no such thing in Hungary today - and the parallels must be eliminated, and the same arguments are listed, which were supposedly eliminated a year and a half ago. Compared to this, an awful amount of money is being invested both in the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and in these media, while the performance of these media is at least questionable. If, of course, we take the performance that is the government's goal and which is served by NMHH and its media, namely that under political influence government propaganda is conducted, then from this point of view the activity is fine. If we are looking at a public television, public media, and our demand is an independent media authority with equal rights for all, then neither the authority nor the media it controls meet these conditions. Compared to this, in recent years the Authority and its media have spent 600 billion forints of taxpayers' money. And if we vote in favour of next year's budget and they also vote in favour of taking over 47 billion forints of loans, we will spend nearly 700 billion forints on these televisions and NMHH in these six years. It has also been said here how good it is that 20 people less work at NMHH than they can work, and that is why there are a few million forints in savings, only it does not say what compared to it, because, by the way, in the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, only wage-related expenses exceed HUF 8 billion in one year. 8 billion forints! I am not sure that we should spend HUF 8 billion in personal expenses on the authority that does not perform its task, but is under political influence and has political influence on the media below. I think that the cases that came up at the public media, the cases that existed during the transformation, the external productions on which the public media spent hundreds of millions and billions, programmes, series, external productions that practically didn't produce ratings, and compared to that, 800-900 million, 1 billion, there was a programme, a stream of programs, you're home! Hungary, I love you! It was the idea of the internationally renowned television mogul, Rákay Philip, that one day cost the taxpayers a billion forints of Magyar Television, and its ratings were in fact undetectable. The National Media and Infocommunication Authority has nothing to say about this and takes note of these matters without saying a word. Or that Ákos Kovács, court musician, invented for 28 million forints the signature that a smarter big group kid plays at any time on a xilo, under the leadership of a not-so-talent kindergarten teacher, and you paid 28 million forints. Do you know what this is? It's a crime. It's a crime. And if you think no one's ever gonna ask you to do that, you're infinitely wrong. [[The First of Novak: That's right!]] If you think that this brazenness, which you call the media authority, in which you spend the money with both hands, in which Mr. Fábry can receive 1.1 billion forints for his show, and then another 500 million for the next year, I think you're mistaken. Ladies and gentlemen. We didn't even talk about savings, the so-called fourth mobile operator, which has completely failed. He did not become a fourth state mobile operator, and this whole little story, this little adventure that took place around the creation of the fourth mobile operator, caused HUF 41 billion to the Hungarian budget. 41 billion. But there's no fourth mobile operator, and the money's gone. He didn't have a word for that either. So, to talk about independent news services and independent public media in the country where the Telegram Office, the national news agency, can do so by making internal rules that say that if the Hungarian Telegram Office or any other public media player is mentioned or criticized in a negative way, then he simply refuses to report this news on his own authority, because it doesn't make them look good. [[20.10]] It is not because a political party or a public figure or anyone else is criticizing the public media that they pay from their taxes, but that he does not disclose it in a unique way, in fact in democratic countries, in an unprecedented manner. The Hungarian Telegram Office is not a private company! MTVA and its media are not private companies! These are public media and public offices, public authorities. You have no right to refuse to publish any news. I think that what the Hungarian Telegram Office does in this case - and I am talking here not about the employees of the Hungarian Telegram Office, but about its leaders - is completely unacceptable. I can also say that if they do this in the knowledge that it is now without consequences for all eternity, then they are also seriously mistaken. Now they've made Duna Television the leading central channel, where all the taxes have been compiled. I would like to tell you that, compared to the hundreds of billions of dollars, the Danube Television is rated 2-3 percent. Two to three percent ratings, but there are moments when it's up to four. There are moments, at this point, I'm guessing they're opening champagne at the NMHH, but they're cheaper to save on the cost than we've heard. Ladies and gentlemen. The 600-700 billion forints that all this incomprehensible, completely anti-democratic, all public services, all systems that lack correctness, all forints, all forints are wasted. We do not accept this report, because if we accepted it, we would give a passport to the activity and farming that this office and the media that have been operating under it have done in recent years. We do not accept the budget plan for next year either, because we do not see what the ideas are, we do not see the content reports and the contents, but they ask for a lot of money again. It is obvious to us that with the same amount of money, they could show the same operation, they would also carry out government propaganda, they could also appoint a man as news director who now has a court record of false news, the same way they would cease or continue to broadcast Parliamentary broadcasts, and they would do everything they could to ensure that the government would otherwise be overrepresented in Magyar Television, Radio and Public Media, and opposition parties would be underrepresented. And they spend 600-700 billion forints on this in six years. We have no reason to support this with our vote. I must say to Parliament, to the large number of Fidesz Members present, and to any member of the government not present, that we will do everything in our power to ensure that in the next few years, we believe that they are responsible for this abusive operation, and that those responsible will have to take responsibility for these actions. Once again, we believe that the way the NMHH operates and operates the national media is very often not only scratching, but also implementing the crimes that will, of course, have to be investigated later. Ladies and gentlemen. Not 500, not 600, not 700 billion, not 176 billion, but one forint would be very difficult to vote for NMHH for this type of operation. The NMHH should sit very deeply in a dark corner and be ashamed of what they did to the Hungarian media system. I can tell you again, they can do it for a while, and then they can't do it anymore. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-19-310	Welcome, fellow Members. KDNP will not participate in the debate, so I will not give them the floor. However, I give the floor to my fellow Member, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-10-19-311	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is very little public information on the management and operation of public media. There is no transparency, and citizens who finance the institution do not even know what the serious ten billion are going to do. We cannot ask ourselves, Members of Parliament, because the government, as it is demonstrating in its absence, says that the operation of the media, public media, and even the control of the entire media beyond the public media, are not governmental powers, and that is why it washes its hands. That's the screaming lie you have the nerve to make up. In the meantime, we can't really ask the head of the media authority at least in the National Assembly, like, let's say, the Attorney General. So there is virtually no control of the one-time Hungarian man, and neither do we, Members of Parliament. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Only the Fidesz! "That's what one of their electoral passwords said, and that's what they've done. Perhaps first of all, the most important media monitoring body, members of the Media Council. While all parliamentary parties in the ORTT, their predecessors, had delegates and had insights in this sense, only the delegates of Fidesz later took place, this was the new direction in 2010. Although he elected by two thirds, because he had to choose the members of the Media Council for the Parliament, they even pushed the KDNP out. They knew how important the media was, so only members of the Fidesz could get a seat. So we don't have any insight into how it works. After that, they spot our eyes, for example, with a close check. It's also worth looking at, say, page 10. Unscrupulous unscrupulousness, superficiality, that the MTVA's accounts of more than 80 billion dollars will be downloaded on one page in essence, including a line called the MTVA's media service support and asset management activities. This is supposed to be an explanation of the meaning of this law! The background to this magnification clearly states that if I were to detail what these tens of billions of forints actually do, then everyone would see how much they have to produce, for example. It is worth looking at the perhaps most outrageous part of the closing account, in this context, in the next item on the agenda for next year's budget, and this is that as a residual, the Authority has HUF 38.2 billion in the 2014 accounts. This is nearly twice the annual budget. We never got an explanation for that. Informally, of course. Before the 2014 elections, they said that they were preparing to lose the election and that for a while there would be something left to farm the public media they ruled, even if they could not essentially remove anyone and cement themselves. So even in the case of budget cuts, this kind of good news, this is the state good news, though, it should work, maybe that's another goal. However, this kind of accumulation is amazing. Next year, they're gonna take $9.1 billion out of 32. That's pretty awesome. On top of that, this year the government is taking over MTVA's HUF 47 billion debt by amending the state budget. In fact, instead of being accounted for, they are closing down the corporate scandal of the public media, which was a crime of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, and it also seems to remain unaccounted for in the midst of many past eight years. [[20.20]] Rather, we will quickly take over this loan, forget the whole story, one of the biggest corruption scandals of the MSZP-SZDSZ government, instead of actually being accounted for. I think we can talk about this even at the next item on the agenda. However, it is worth considering on page 9 that by 2014 only HUF 25 million of media service fees had been paid, so while the advertising tax was making a lot of noise about how much they had to pay, they didn't mention what an amazing decrease there was. After all, if we look at the data of previous years, in 2009 TV2 paid almost 2 billion, RTL paid about 1.8 billion, then the amount of this fell significantly, as I mentioned, from a total of HUF 25 million in media service fees by 2014. We understand that you have to be good with the media, and that's the primary aspect of the government, not the proper operation of the media, but it's because of what's going beyond the line. This one, for example. It is also worth noting that the other national radio frequency does not sell minus half a billion revenues, as we can see that Advenio pays this much for Class FM, so half a billion forints of revenue is actually lost to the authorities. It is worth talking about, because when we have constructive proposals such as the introduction of the basic free internet, in addition to which we can raise a number of national economic arguments and much more, we also mark the source of this, whether in terms of advertising tax or now, how serious revenue shortages are. Finally, let some criticisms of principle go beyond the specific figures here, because the situation of the final accounts before us this year is unfortunately still deplorable, and the culture of accountability with public funds, if you can put it that way, continues to stagnate at a very low level from a professional point of view. The way in which the report on the implementation of the NMHH budget last year is adopted is technically unacceptable and politically irresponsible. It is not for us politicians to wage a number war in the forest of accounting rules, financial data, legal regulations. As a matter of public money, it should be the task of the State Audit Office, but since it is not required by the Act, it does not audit the NMHH's financial statements, and what is more, the SAO practically does not even audit the changes in assets, as it does not control only revenue and expenditure. The financial accounting experts of the NMHH are also aware of the unblessed situation, entrusting the auditor to audit the accounts from an accounting and legal point of view. However, this is not an independent external audit, because first of all, the auditor is entrusted and rewarded by the same body - the NMHH - which prepared the report, so there is no reason to dispute the audit, although there is no reason to dispute its professional correctness, but it is specific, an internal audit, in fact, a self-control. On the other hand, it is not an independent external audit because the auditor appointed by the NMHH does not report to the National Assembly, nor can it report, as opposed to the SAO, which is the supervisory body of Parliament. The Media Act continues to force the Committee on Budgets to present itself, in fact with the courage of the blind horse, a bill recommending a discharge from the responsibility of farming to Parliament, as this gypsy joke has just mentioned, while not being able to verify whether the report shows a true and true picture of the financial and financial situation of the media authority. The primary responsibility for the situation is the political responsibility of the Parliament, but the behaviour of the financial government is also condemned because it does not initiate the integration of NMHH into public finances, which is in fact a state in the state, and thus does not initiate the imposition of the State Audit Office to check the media accounts. It is a fundamental professional problem that the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund only accounts for its revenue and expenditure, changes in its financial status, growth, weight loss at all, and also for the government's closure on the central budget, which follows the same mistake. On this basis, Jobbik cannot share the collective irresponsibleness of Parliament and its Committee on Budgets and the State Audit Office, and therefore we cannot vote in favour of the bill on NMHH's closing accounts. Finally, we have also mentioned it many times, but in vain, so I have to repeat it in the same way as before, let us say, the need to replace Robert Alföldi: the closing report should have been included with the report on the professional activities of the media authority, so that together, it can be seen what the media consumer has received and how much it cost the taxpayers, or, let us say, why there is no balanced media information even in spite of legal requirements. This is why the many scandals cannot be put on the agenda here at the same time, in the light of which such a close-out is totally unacceptable. We could talk about anecdotes in more detail when, for example, due to a complaint about balance, MTI leaked a document on which it was, "Well, look, look," said MTI, "they won't shut up Jobbik, here's the weekly mirror, the extract of where they're planning to go, and there's a list of the Jobbik event that he's a reporter on the spot, but we only report when there's going to be trouble, by the way, not a word; now I literally quoted MTI's leaked document on Jobbik's website. Of course, you can't find it so openly on the MTI tomorrow. But because of a complaint about balance, even though it was not disputed before we joined Parliament, we had the more serious silence, but since then we are growing stronger and stronger, we still see that the MSZP has a much bigger media presence, for example, but in many cases even, let us say DK or LMP. That's all, but not balanced information. In the light of all this, and if we could get this right with the accounts, then I think that, in addition to what has already been said, it could be said with other professional arguments that this closure is therefore completely unacceptable. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-312	Ladies and gentlemen, Since the LMP is not present, we have reached the end of the speaker speeches. For the first time, I give the opportunity to the speakers who have registered in writing. Congressman László Cook has the floor.
u2015-10-19-313	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, And I have to stop here for a moment, because I'd love to address everyone else who's still in this room, but we don't see any representatives of the government. I welcome the Commissioner of Parliament, and I am deeply sorry that you have been left so alone, and I find it terribly unworthy. I find it terribly unfair that the leadership and president of the NMHH will not attend the parliamentary meeting where NMHH will be discussing its management last year, and its financial budget for next year will soon be discussed in this House. No one dared to do that, sir, until now in this House. The President of the State Audit Office will come when we listen to the State Audit Office report. The Attorney General will certainly come to this House the day after tomorrow when their work is appreciated by Parliament. I am quite certain, because I was here that the President of the Economic Competition Authority was here and responded to what was said in this House. They all did, and last year even the president of MTVA was here when this House appreciated professional work. He obviously didn't like every sentence, but I think that the dignity of Parliament, the dignity of the legislature, would require that the organization that manages with as much money in a year as the National Rescue Service, with much less added value, do so, that at least at this time its leaders will come here, his president will come here and present the proposal, and then respond to what was said in the debate. This is an unworthy, unacceptable situation, and I must tell you frankly, on behalf of the whole House, I resent it. The closing report that we have heard: Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members, is not a kft. We're at a meeting. We are talking about an audit report, compliance with the accounting system, compliance with the financial system; well, it's a good thing that this is the least we could do. [[20.30]] It would be a miracle if that didn't work out. It would be a great miracle if we failed to balance the debt-claim side, the payment-payment side, and at least once at the end of the year, when this House is discussing this matter, it would not be balanced. It would be a great miracle if this didn't work out, even though there are still questions left in this, and we always walk past it, even though I ask that question every year. Last year, I was informed here in this debate - not by you, by the office, but by my fellow Members, who have informed me - that you have a huge reserve, which will amount to one third of your budget, of a size of ten billion, and then my fellow Members have told me that you are not, because you are not speaking in this debate, in a rather unworthy manner, that this task is being burdened, because it is that this digital transition, the digital second changeover - I do not understand exactly what it is - it is costs that are hidden in this reserve. I don't know much about the digital transition, but I've seen a lot of budget. If there's a sum of money charged with a certain task, it's the title of that line, sir, and there's a plan of action attached to what I want to do with this money. Your misfortune is that the next agenda is the budget for the same company in 2016, where we can see that this balance of money has not decreased as much as it would have been intended for this task. So either my fellow Members have not told the truth, I do not suppose; I assume that you have not done so. Now, however, we are expected to accept this closing account, and it is, after all, only one item of a third of their budget, which, as such, is true that it has not run out, it is not worn out. It is funny to note, however, that, as far as the current government course is concerned, this money has not been lost in an unusual way, but they cannot answer that question, and they do not want to answer that question, since I asked you this question; you cannot be asked. You cannot be asked even if I interpell, say, to the Minister of National Economy, who is responsible for the implementation of all public finances, is responsible for the balance. This includes you, even if you are very excluded from this, but still, Speaker László Fat has forbidden me, saying that I cannot ask this question, that I cannot interpel on this issue. I think if no one has the authority to check you out, then unfortunately, these situations that I have said can come up, and unfortunately now they are not just going to go to the point of listening to an endlessly empty financial report, which any of you really do. Your auditor could have told you here, but they are now simply going to go so far as not to come, you, Commissioner, will be sent here alone - I will be fair here too, not alone, but it is too late, your colleagues have gone - to sit through this debate. They expect the budget for the following year to be submitted by the Committee on Budgets as a quasi-host and to relieve you of the responsibility for implementing last year's budget, because everything has been found in order. Of course, you will vote for this, I think that the Fidesz majority at the committee meeting is not a miracle, but here it is necessary to draw attention to the amount of money that has arrived, and the product that has come out of it - and I think that a closing account should not be part of an audit report, but should be part of an audit report, but in terms of efficiency and effectiveness, which has come out there, which has already been spoken of by several fellow Members, but that kind of efficiency and the kind of effectiveness is neither exoneration nor acceptance, I believe, at this time. They say there's savings. We have heard that my colleague Lajos Szűcs has also said the numbers, 630 are working, but next year's budget will increase the number from 650 to 680. I believe that this is not a saving in your budget, but it is a simple cleansing: there is still someone left who has not been noticed, or since then his loyalty has been questioned. This is usually the case in budgetary companies, government companies, but even in ministries, when suddenly, hectically, the number of people starts to jump, that means, in particular, that there is cleansing. This year, they've been downsized, and next year, they're gonna hire people, and next year, 680 people are gonna be doing this job. The increase of 30 people will result in an extra cost of HUF 10 million per person, a total extra cost of HUF 300 million. I don't think that's part of the savings. However, you are lucky - you were not lucky for the previous one - because Parliament has not discussed the amending budget, where they are asking for HUF 47 billion to be borrowed from MTVA, where we can see that there has been a HUF 23 billion share that you have started to repay from credit, and now - if not this week, then for sure next week - there will be a HUF 47 billion part. Of course, you can spend the past eight years in this, you can say a lot of things in this, but this course has been five years, five years, you have spent 700 billion forints, you have not been able to manage 47 billion. There in the world around you, but you're not part of it, it's called inefficient, it's called ineffective. The product, whether in farming or in cultural content or in media content, comes out, is called ineffective and ineffective, and is therefore very, very expensive. I think we shouldn't be trying their luck on the market, at least because I don't think we're gonna make it. But let's see why they can do that. The reason why they can and can empty their accounts in their entirety is that this could be an audit report, and, of course, accountingly everything will be okay, because the bodies that control you, the bodies that control themselves, are appointed by a party, by Fidesz, are selected; I think everyone can find the appropriate expression for themselves. Those people are supervising you, obviously doing this for proper paternity, and obviously they're letting you have it. I think it was the right thing to say to those who thought it wouldn't last forever. Those who thought that sooner or later there would be a real, real account, where we would see that this cost-effectiveness, this value-for-value ratio, represented by the produced product and the public money to pay for it, is in proportion to each other. You're in a very bad proportion, gentlemen. 3-4 percent ratings, terrible bloopers, like you're watching a New Year's Eve show from morning to night, and they're making such mistakes at the national festival on March 15th that we don't want to laugh about it. We don't want to laugh for a minute about what you're doing with so much public money, but we see next to it that urban, regional television and radios are still struggling. To this day, you have not written out - I asked you the question, and you have answered me to ask this question in writing - eight regional radio stations, eight local radio stations' frequency competitions. You are expected to compile the budget with reasonable detail, data and transparency, and to implement it precisely, but I believe that much more can be expected in this House. [[20.40]] I'm gonna have to refer you back to that one more time. It would be better if this were a debate rather than a debate to the protocol without a government, a debate to some pro-government Members that is really just about the protocol. You're evacuating this, too. We're gonna play democracy here, and we're gonna talk about it here. You will not have the leaders to whom these questions can be asked. I would point out once again that there is no government agency and there is no government control body that has ever dared to do so. Péter Polt will be here, the president of the SAO was here, the president of the GVH was here, and even your MTVA president was here last year. Amazing! It's amazing, by the way. I think that if it was possible to achieve at least a reasonable detail in two years that I had to ask this for two years to be kind, to elaborate on the frequency contests, and then the Committee on Budgets could receive this in an additional proposal, if we had to vote on it once to have a little insight into it, then at least it made sense to ask, it was a pity that it made sense to ask for two years. I am very sorry that you do this job as if you are a state in the state. And I know that this debate is going to end, and that day is going to end, and then everything can go on as it has been. I would like to draw attention to one thing: this will not continue indefinitely. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-19-314	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-10-19-315	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is an important report that the House is debating here, because the situation of the Hungarian media is also related to the situation of Hungarian democracy. The answer and opinion of the NMHH on various opposition criticisms was that we have the professional, financial report on our website, and everyone can look at it, and in it there is exactly everything related to their activities. Indeed, in the meantime, we find that they have not been able to send even an expert to this debate, who would at least take note of the comments made, although it is true that, thank God, we have excellent stenographers, and they will certainly be able to hear from the record if they ask for this report. But really, I think that the Members, the MSZP, the betterman and some of the Fidesz MEPs could offer a beer to any representative of the NMHH, if he knew what was said here about their report in this House. But really, since this is an important report, it should be noted that, well, there is a problem with the fact that there is no opposition delegate to this body, because when this whole organisation was established, opposition representatives were forced out of it. We also argued that this would not be a good thing, because there should be some kind of opposition control, because if there is no control, then there can also be technical errors and financial slackness, as my fellow Members have already reported here in the last debate. So allow me to use this opportunity to call on the present representatives of Fidesz to ensure that the opposition also has a role in this organization, because this control is very seriously lacking, and from now on, clearly, this organization plays nothing other than a weapon in the hands of Fidesz and a money-sharing opportunity for those who are dear to Fidesz. There are a number of problems that my fellow Members have already talked about, but it is important to emphasise these problems again so that they can be addressed as often as possible in this House. The first is that the Hungarian public service media works with a large amount of money. If you look at the budget of commercial televisions, which do not work to a significant extent on public money, then the difference is simply incomparable, multiples of either the RTL Club or the TV2 budget that Magyar TV spent on itself. And we can't even say that this money is properly and well managed, because we don't see the professional content, we don't see the cultural content, we don't see the public service objective that the Hungarian Television or its various units could achieve with such money. So, as the others have said, the public service is seriously damaged. Earlier in the long damned period before 2010, you cursed and condemned yourself, it was specifically measured in seconds on public television, Duna TV, MTV, to speak as much as a opposition representative, as the pro-government representative, and even to pay attention to who initiated a debate, where appropriate, who might benefit by speaking earlier and trying to ensure equal opportunities for all. Several times now, especially after the change of government in 2010, we have received the answer from the leaders of the then MTV that there is no need for opposition opinions now, because the ruling party wants to present its own ideas after the elections, and it certainly takes a long time, so they cannot allow opposition representatives into these programmes, the news, because all this government news and government propaganda are pushing these news out at the same time. Then we came across an argument, myself personally, that there is no need to allow an opposition opinion because the opposition does not have an opinion on a particular issue. It did not bother the public service media that not only the MSZP, but all the other parliamentary parties had given their views on the issue, but it was still the government's position that was reflected in the given night talk show or the newscast, which, as I have just said, served no other purpose than to be a communication agent for Fidesz. We said a lot of that, and you always denied it, and you said it wasn't true, but then a few days or a few weeks ago, the Vice President of News TV reported interestingly similar words about the operation of the public media. He said there's a continuous briefing between the Fidesz communications center and the public service media, and they're telling us exactly what it's about, what it's about, what it's about. It could also be said that the public service media is not reporting on the news, but is looking for news for Fidesz's communication goals to support this. Of course - this has already been mentioned, but it is still outrageous, it is worth repeating - the public service media is speaking selectively about the news. What is unpleasant to the Prime Minister or to Fidesz is in many cases disappears or does not appear, whether it is migrant, corruption or anything else in the news. Later, my fellow Member, Mr Gergő Bárándy, will talk about this in more detail, but it is also outrageous that the MTI, whose task would be to report on the position of the various Members, various political organisations, on a particular subject, and what they think about the particular issue, will be selected among the news. Last time, the LMP was denied the disclosure of a communication, but the MSZP has also been unable to publish an MSZP communication on a number of occasions, or, where appropriate, not with a content, not in the form that the Member said. So among the problems there are professional problems, which concern that there is no public service in Hungary today, but that Fidesz has a means of communication, there is nothing else in the public service media, and this is covered by the NMHH. So this is where the two relate to each other, that while, of course, the NMHH has regulatory, supervisory powers, but these complaints are either not properly or very slowly, smeared, and we do not see them acting in a similar way to the public service media, such as, where appropriate, a number of commercial or other smaller televisions and media service providers, but there is a kind of privileged situation for Magyar Television. We've already talked about ratings. Indeed, if you look at the amount spent and the ratings in this comparison, you will also get the same result that spending so much money on this is completely unnecessary, that is for sure. [[20.50]] It is also interesting that aid does not necessarily take place transparently or on the basis of a clear set of criteria announced in advance. Sometimes you can find out from the news or the NMHH website who has received and what type of support, but how it was distributed leaves something to be desired. It is also true that similar practices have been carried out at ORTT in the past, but that practice was not right either, which is why it would have been possible to eliminate this in the context of the current regulation. We say that we cannot support this financial report because the Hungarian public service television is carrying out its activities impartially, completely ignoring not the BBC Stenders, which is often referred to as a kind of standard, but only at all the standards related to the former public service are undermined by the current Hungarian public service media, which gives a kind of umbrella, a kind of help, and serves the various political interests of Fidesz itself. We agree with all those who say that it is not possible to accept this financial report because there are a series of professional errors, imbalances, the service of a certain fidesz political interest characterizes both the Hungarian public service media and the authority. On the other hand, it is quite clear - this is what Zoltán Lukács said - that this farming is completely wasteful. Nor can you see exactly what the funds have been spent on in recent years, nor can you see what they are asking for another HUF 10 billion in the next period, and the HUF 600-700 billion that has been spent on this in recent years is a huge sum. For comparison: we spend 125-130 billion forints of taxpayers' money on higher education. Once again, we call upon the government to change one-sidedness. This is true of the functioning of the public authority, it is true of the public media and it is also true of wasteful farming. For our part, therefore, as my colleagues have repeatedly said, we will not support this report. For a wasteful, unprofessional operation, it wouldn't take that much money, it wouldn't actually need any money, because it's not public service. This is financed by the Hungarian budget with taxpayers' money. That's why we're going to press the "not" button. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-19-316	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2015-10-19-317	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There are some aspects of this debate that I think all Members should say. You must speak out because I find it outrageous that, as my fellow Member, Mr Cook, when it comes to their accounts, they can appear, so to speak, public officials with more serious bridalities before the Parliament than the president of the media authority. In fact, I can tell you that you feel obliged to be here. As my fellow Member said, Péter Polt will be here the day after tomorrow, just as the President of the Curia will be here, the President of the National Court Office will be here, and as there have been all the public-law officials who have discussed any of the accounts of his organization. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, and especially for you, honourable Parliamentary Commissioner, hoping to convey this position to your bosses, that I find it outrageous and ask for it as a Member. For the record, sometimes you smile cynically and sometimes you rub your eyes in the opposite box when your speeches are spoken. I would like to inform you, sir, that the support of tens of thousands of Hungarian citizens is behind all the Members here, and they have brought them into the Hungarian Parliament, and this place is the body of the Hungarian People's Congress. I'm sorry, it's not for you. It's not for you. It's for the president. It's for a co-worker who's taking notes. Turning to the substance and substance of the matter: according to the report - and I think these are indeed facts - MTVA and the Authority managed to produce a total of 144 billion forints in 2014. There are many similarities here, that is what my fellow Members have done, and as a lawyer, I say that this is almost double what full justice is given. I do not take this analogy as a basis, but as a result - and this is important - the figures show that each voter pays 18-20 thousand forints a year to ensure that public media and media authorities work. I would like to say that all Hungarian citizens. I would like to say that the voters on the left are, too. Those left-wing voters whose interests are ignored not only by MTVA, but also by the media authority. It's zero. And this is quite simply outrageous and intolerable. There are twice as many people working for the media department as there were in our time, say, the Justice Department. It's an interesting number, and I think it's worth thinking about. But what is best worth thinking about - that is what my fellow Members have drawn attention to in other contexts - is what MTVA is doing for this huge amount of money and what role, what role and role media surveillance plays. 'Cause what's media surveillance supposed to do? I think it's in his name, too, to oversee the media. First of all, to oversee the public media. And if you have to put something in the front row here, you have to supervise the objectivity of public media, which is otherwise bound by law. Now, that's what the NMHH can't solve out of a few billion forints! The NMHH has the right to act on its own initiative in certain cases. The public is swarming with cases where, how, and where, the public media forge news, how it distorts the news, how it does not comply with the principle of public service, how it is partial to government parties. The NMHH does not like to conduct investigations on this subject, nor does the Media Council. I am talking about this as a collective concept because we have managed to create a media regulation where the president of the media authority and the president of the Media Council are one and the same person. You could say, of course, that fish reeks of its head, and that's true of both. When not only opposition parties object, but also, let us say, prestigious international organisations such as Freedom House, the state of media press freedom in Hungary, when, for example, since 2010, the aforementioned body has been showing a constantly deteriorating trend in its reports regarding the state of the Hungarian media, the freedom of the Hungarian media, I believe that the NMHH and the Media Council, especially the President of these two bodies, have thought about how this situation could be improved. Because if you were to properly supervise the media, these processes would probably be reversible. Oh, that it lacks will? Maybe. I'm sure the money's not missing 'cause they're stuffed with it. Turning to the MTI's practice, I hope that I will at least get a written answer to this question; the Attorney General took the trouble to reply in writing to the Members of Parliament who addressed the questions after his report, and I hope that the head of the Media Authority, the Head of the Media Council, will do the same, if he is no longer here, at least read the minutes and answer these questions. [[21.00]] I would like to ask you that when the MTI manages from billions of forints, this is what my fellow Member Luke and my fellow Member Mesterházy referred to, then how can the media authority fail to realise that it does not meet the minimum criteria for objectivity. How do you not realize that the MTI is constantly spreading the news that the MTI is not informing you of certain events? To give an example, it must have been very embarrassing for the government that the socialist candidate in Angelland won the interim election by 60 percent. At MTI, a stinking word about this election didn't happen. You forgot to cover it. On the other hand, let's say that if we paired up the fact that there was an election a few days later in a settlement where 35 voters went to vote, then MTI reports that the Hungarian Telegram Office is listening to the essence of our press conferences and manipulating the news in such a way that it will be as favorable as possible for the governing parties, one does not even mention it because it is everyday. It means they forget to report certain events, so to speak, even though they are otherwise informed, well, it's almost everyday. But, ladies and gentlemen, I can now say that the Hungarian Telegram Office is tenentically censoring, and I find not only us, but also other parliamentary opposition parties, outrageous. Now, that's the point where you can't go any further. The fact that the Hungarian Telegram Office creates a rule... - here again the responsibility of the Media Council and the media authority comes in. Tell me, please, you do not think it nonsense that a publicly paid, monopolised MTI can create a policy to refuse to publish all opinions and news criticizing MTVA, or even refuse to issue OS communications criticizing the work of MTI even if one of your employees is adversely affected. That is, there is a group, it seems, in Hungary, that cannot be criticized. Of course, it can be in the tavern and perhaps even here in Parliament, but that the public service media does not report on this, and the Hungarian Telegram Office effectively refuses to publish such announcements is simply nonsense. And for this, the media authority, let me cheat a little bit, with a budget of HUF 63 billion, doesn't have time to investigate, examine this unsustainable practice, for me, to be honest, surprising. It is surprising, ladies and gentlemen, that when we object to all this, the MTI is able to give such an answer that it has no responsibility for not publishing the communication. We would like to take note of the above information. * Well, fellow Members, say another state body, a monopoly state body, which has no remedy for its decisions! Because that's what the MTI described. We think there is, by the way. However, the MTI wrote back another interesting thing, that the requirement for balanced information, i.e., because we did not object to this, but rather objectivity, not balanced information, can only be interpreted in the case of linear media service providers. I wonder what the NMHH has to say about that. Our petition is already there, and I sincerely hope that it will be assessed positively. But if not, I can promise you that after that we will be sure that we will go to Strasbourg with the problem, in case the later decision in Strasbourg can oblige the present parliamentary majority to create a legislative environment that can ensure the objectivity of public media and that if one does not find it objective, then an effective remedy can be sought. Because even the deeply biased NMHH doesn't seem to be able to appeal if we understand the MTI's rejoinder correctly. Anyway, we've tried, and we're waiting for your answer on this. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we have a public service media that receives more money than the entire judiciary in itself, that we have an NMHH, which has received almost as much as the court chapter in the year under consideration, I say, as a lawyer, is obviously going to be able to do something else, and with all this budget, it is shameful. And now I'm very benevolent. Because if I weren't, I'd say that he actually did an excellent job with that kind of money, ended independent media in Hungary, eliminated impartial and objective information from public media, and found a great assistant, the NMHH and the Media Council. I would like not to be so malicious and say that perhaps it is up to the dilettantism of the NMHH that this situation looks like this. For this reason, I ask the leaders of the NMHH and the Media Council and their members not to serve the Fidesz, but those of the Hungarian people who spend 20,000 forints of their own income each year on the operation of these two bodies. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-19-318	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2015-10-19-319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to begin my speech very differently, just as it has been said this evening among the walls of this House, it is simply unworthy, unacceptable, what is happening now, around 9:00 p.m., here in the walls of this House. I'm sorry, but this is not a representation, which is now shown in the box. You're a scribe, you're assigned to take notes of what's been said, and then I don't know who to hand it all over to. You know, the representation of the National Media and Infocommunication Authority, if the first people of the Authority are here, they can hear, see what is happening, whether in connection with the 2014 budget accounting, reporting, or in connection with the determination of the 2016 budget numbers; and, of course, not only about the figures, but also about the content issues. It is unworthy, unacceptable, I can tell you that this is an abuse of the authority of Parliament on your part. Yes, as I say, that's my opinion. This is an abuse of Parliament's authority on your part. Of course, with your bearing on it, there is also a strong connection between the government's involvement. Apparently, a government figure doesn't sit on velvet chairs. The Velvet Chairs are here, but none of them are government actors. And no matter how I look at it, I don't see any more than two Fidesz and pro-government representatives - two. Two at a time when we are talking about the magnitude of more than HUF 100 billion in a given year. Two when we talk about the use of more than HUF 700 billion of financial conditions in six years within the framework of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and MTVA. Looks like you're under a lot of pressure. There's a lot of pressure on you, and there's a lot of pressure through you on MTVA. And this pressure is nothing more than a kind of political pressure. [[21.10]] No, they don't seem to have personal independence any more. They have no professional, financial or institutional independence. Nothing. Nothing that would take them to make a real, meaningful public media. No. This independence, this degree of freedom, has been taken from you, has been removed. Collaborators are rewarded and dissidents are punished. You, I see, with today's power, because this is power, you have chosen to cooperate with it. They're being served. They are being served, and they are not seeking to operate a real public service in this country. I think the public service in this regard has ceased. I think that the hard political influence prevails, and this huge amount of money, more than HUF 100,000 a year, whether we look at 2012 or 13, or 14 or even the 16 that we are about to face, this amount of more than HUF 100,000 in any year will be carried out and served by you during this hard political influence. The MTVA and the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, as I said, consumed 600 billion forints between 2011 and 2015. I wouldn't be talking about the 47 billion, the property case, and I wouldn't be talking about how and how this would have been financed if they had managed effectively. No. I am just saying that it seems to me that this communication through the public media is in no way considered impartial. This should not be spent on an annual scale of HUF 100,000, but an orphan penny should not be spent. As long as you don't have political influence in marches and decency, in a proper manner, to give people credible information, you wouldn't have to give you a penny. It is no coincidence that, among other things, they will not be able to hold my vote for either 14 or 16 of them. And as long as they don't change that, as long as they see the public media as paying places, I'm sure that won't change. My fellow Members mentioned, they said: HUF 8 billion in wage payments? I'm glad that there are wage payments, but, you know, if I parallel it to, say, digitization with public employees here, it's a torso. Then it is a picture of a situation that gives some people small amounts of money for something to do, a fair, expected task, and other people, even without public procurement, a billion-dollar sum of money. Is that okay? Is that how you think this is supposed to work? I think, no, it's different somehow. And I don't want to get caught up in ratings or possibly manipulating it, in a lot of other things. We know from the statistics, as you talk about employment or anything else here, in Parliament's walls, how you talk about the real picture so that it pleases the outside world, but it is very different from reality. I don't want to talk about the forgery thing. No. My fellow Member, Luke, said that there is a judicial judgment in this regard, that there is a tangible forgery, and that many things that are not being reported are preventing people from getting close to credible information. So, when the authority, the supervision, operates without any opposition involvement, there are obviously consequences, such consequences that such torsos can develop, that the system can function as it is today; that the news can be sorted, selected: what you like, the political power, as I said, because this is, today's government, if today's government, political power likes it, then the news that goes into one of the baskets of selection will appear as news that violates their interests or may not build them, and that will be in a basket that will never appear as news. Well, it's the objective information you've shown, obviously no different than it is according to government interests, and it only works according to government interests. It's just the Fidesz, but not for the people - for themselves, for maintaining their power. In Fidesz's hands, a communication tool is the public media itself. We now have a ministry that has taken the oath of the minister today, which will practically function as a propagandaist. We have a National Media and Infocommunication Authority that helps to enforce the political interests of Fidesz, with that selection, that denial, many other things that my fellow Members have spoken about. Of course, the sample was given by Fidesz. He's given it because, you can say, through those giant posters that have had a flood of lies all over the country, you know, I'll give you an example to make it tangible: the minimum wage is going to rise again. The minimum wage for which people take into their hands 5 thousand forints less worth of money, but fooling them as if they were growing or trying to fool them, as if their minimum wage were increasing. So about that, that's the way you're going. I see you've signed up for the role of the server. They serve the Fidest, not the people. You're making a very big mistake because nothing is forever. Because someday everything will go away, and then you'll have to account for what you've done and how you've done it using resources of this magnitude. As I said, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority was able to search for the professional reports of the previous year, but it was very impossible to find. As I said or said, in the same way with regard to the plans for 2016, if someone wants to get close to a deep analysis, then he has a very difficult job to do. You can nod and swing your head, but you act and want to become the holder of a hundred thousand million forints of money without even fulfilling your basic duties. The Hungarian Socialist Party will not give its name and support to the operation of party paying centres. Look, my fellow Member Bárándy was not only about the matters of MTVA, not only the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, but also about the affairs of the MTI, but it is not separate. Distortion or even refusal to publish various communications is also a political category of sin. They're trying to show up only what's in your best interest. It can be done for a while, but after a while, people are likely to open their eyes. It opens because it cannot be denied or manipulated for a long time. You can't manipulate news, you can't refuse to publish announcements. Temporarily, yes, but not for a long time. Nor can reality be distorted. I can't, just periodically. Don't believe and don't trust that you can do this forever. No! [[21.20]] But when the house of cards collapses, they have to count on each one of them to have moral responsibility and possibly to have other kinds of responsibility. God knows, it will be decided by those who then have the means to see how these sources have been used. I find it unfair to create barriers and barriers to the news about the Hungarian Prime Minister, the Hungarian Prime Minister, or the close circle of the Prime Minister, in such a way that they are not even able to appear. I find it unfair to try to reverse the origins of the various revelations and move them in the opposite direction. I find it unfair to try to play a part in the counterfeiting of news more and more often. All those who do this must also consider playing with the honour of the profession. With the honor of a profession that, of course, always and subsequently has an impact on the perception of the world around them. I would like to refer to this responsibility in my last sentence. I would like to refer to the fact that the press, according to my judgment, is forbidden to lie. You can't lie. Lying manipulation is also prohibited. For this reason, I would like to call on you to do your best to return to the practice and implementation of objective information. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-19-320	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I will ask Mr Lajos Szűcs if he wishes to comment on the debate. Yeah, he's coming in. The floor is yours, my honourable fellow Member.
u2015-10-19-321	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, I felt a little weird about what was said today because I remembered what I read in one of my favorite Jenő Hidden Books in the Fourteen Carats, when Iván Gorcsev rushes back and beats the footman with a pawn called André, and he says, "I'm a jerk, I'm a jerk?" And the person he wanted to ask, Gustave Laboux, asked him not to hurt poor Andre because he couldn't answer that question. Dear fellow Members, I'd like to read the address of the motion. Perhaps a few minutes and several tiradas that we have heard could have been saved, as this is the bill for implementing the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2014. The bill can only be submitted by the Government, by a Member, or by one of its committees, my fellow Members. So the questions that have been raised here can only be answered, as a whole, by the person present in this House. Thus, the question of why the head of the media authority is not here, I say to Congressman Barándy, is the question that has been made on an incompetent subject. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You must have had better things to do.]] No, you can't ask in this House. And I'd like to inform you... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why?]] That's because you can't speak in this House. You should know that as much as you do about the house rules. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: But you could sit here and listen.]] And I would like to report fairly that the Authority's report is B/2740. I, and the media council report, B/3675. can be found in Figure 1. And the Parliament has decided that the committees - before the Committee on Culture and Economics - will have to report on them. You probably know very well that these Commission reports will include the relevant leaders, and those questions that you have asked may be answered. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: But I am not a member of that committee.]] Unfortunately, this is an inappropriate question, my dear Congressman. With reference to all of this [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I believe that both the Authority's report and the Media Council's report can be found on the website. You can also look at these, but the adoption of the bill will, of course, be a matter for Parliament. I would like to ask my fellow Members that, after the debate has been held, we will adopt it after a detailed debate on the bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-10-19-322	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the bill on the 2016 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is now taking place until closure. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/6369. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, rapporteur on the agenda.
u2015-10-19-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then I don't have to tell you again that it's a bill, and it's not about having to answer all the questions of the petitioner. After all, the 2010 CXXXIV on media services and mass communication. Law determined that this bill should be submitted by the Committee on Budgets. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The National Media and Infocommunications Authority was established with effect from 11 August 2010 and acts as an autonomous administrative body which has to cover its expenditure from its own revenue and budgetary contributions. Under the Media Services and Public Communications Act, the Authority's annual budget includes both the budget of the NMHH, the Media Council of NMHH and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. On 14 September, the president of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority submitted the draft bill to the Committee on Budgets. At its meeting on 29 September, the Committee on Budgets discussed the bill and decided to submit it. The budget of the NMHH for 2016: the Authority's total revenue for 2016 amounts to HUF 32 billion and HUF 299.6 million, NMHH's public revenue consists of administrative service fees, charges for the use of the frequency, connection and use of identifiers, supervisory fees and fines collected and late payment allowances. The net amount of public authority revenues planned in the area of communications is HUF 23 billion and HUF 889,2 million, approximately one and a half percent higher than the appropriations adopted in the budget law for 2015. Among the revenues, we pay special attention to the frequency charges, as they represent almost 80 percent of the total revenue, precisely HUF 18.95 billion. The HUF 2 billion planned for the use of identifiers is of the same magnitude as this year's revenue. [[21.30]] The planned supervisory fee is expected to generate HUF 1 billion of HUF 897 million. The Authority is expected to receive HUF 200 million of fines in the course of next year, which will be used by law to develop a culture of conscious consumer decision-making. The planned budget for operating revenues is HUF 6.159 billion, including the HUF 5.779 billion general turnover tax related to revenues and the results of the efficient investment in reserves. Within the expenditure side, there is a significant proportion of personal benefits and taxes and contributions, which amount to HUF 8 billion and HUF 860.9 million. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The budget for the expenditure in rem is HUF 10 billion, the appropriations and the investments amount to HUF 4 billion. The reserves include the Act 134. § (1) of the Act covers the operational reserve of the following years by HUF 5 billion 919 million, as well as the operating reserve of the year as a consequence of the economic management of HUF 3 billion with HUF 179 million. The budget of the Media Council for 2016: HUF 173.9 million to cover the Media Council's operating budget, including the staff allowances of the five-member Media Council, contributions, expert frameworks to assist in their professional activities, and the funding of the funding for the co-operative operation. The budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund for 2016. According to the law, the commercial and asset management revenues belong to MTVA, and below are advertising and other business and financial revenues. The public service contribution is equal to the 2015 appropriation, i.e. HUF 69 billion for HUF 861 million next year. The media service fee is HUF 1 billion 91 million, which includes the media service fee paid by commercial media service providers. The tender fees: include the MTVA share of the frequency tender fees and grant fees, worth HUF 54 million, the media service contract penalty, fine, late payment interest of HUF 23 million. MTVA's expenditure: the costs of the activities include all personnel, contributions, material and stockpiling expenses of MTVA's operation, the production of programmes, and the management of assets. Support for the Media Patronage worth HUF 3 billion and HUF 145 million. Part of the public service contribution is transferred by MTVA to the Media Council. This amount is the same as it was in 2015, i.e. HUF 2 billion 630 million overall. It provides target support for the production of public service programmes, the production of films and contemporary music for the first time in the cinema. The Digitalisation Workshop contributes to the operation of HUF 298.1 million, plus the deposit of HUF 283.7 million. The drafting and detail of the proposal also shows the economy and cost-effective management of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, which is confirmed by the appropriation of their budget for next year, so I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-19-324	Ladies and gentlemen, The representative of the Government has indicated that he does not wish to present his position in the debate. Thus, the keynote speakers will follow. First, I give the floor to Balázs Simon Róbert, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-19-325	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have just heard the rapporteur's exposé, which, as a matter of budget, contained many, many numbers. The analysis of the activities of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority falls within the competence of the Cultural Committee, so we are well aware of the extensive work behind the numbers. Citizens perceive the work of the Authority and the Media Council only indirectly. For them, the balance, versatility, speed of information, freedom of expression are important, they appreciate the possibility of enjoyable, uplifting pastimes and learning, and for the responsible parent in particular, it is important for the child to meet media content in the ever-rich supply of digital communication that meets his maturity and meets the goals of family education. Not only from the numbers side of the budget, we can see efforts by the Authority and the Media Council, also by regulating their activities, which is in line with citizens' expectations. The media law is 134. The objectives set out in paragraph 9 of Article 9 are reflected in the practice of fines, which has improved in a number of respects, such as the protection of minors. Today, our children are much better protected from harmful content, harmful effects in the world of television, the Internet, because the authority is also a determined partner. Partner for both parents and children. Their enlightening films can be seen regularly, which is also instructive to those who abuse or recklessly abuse any digital device against others. The objectives are expressed in the way the authority uses fines, which should be used to develop a culture of conscious consumer decision-making. For example, the Authority supports scientific, educational programmes covered by competition and consumer policy, training of professionals in the field of communication and media law and consumer policy, information on communication and media policy and information on consumer decision-making. In line with the model of the integration of the public media service, the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund is responsible for financing the operation of the public media service provider Danube, providing coverage for the extended television channel to six, the three national and three additional radio content, and the news agency work. Overall, this allows the provision of more differentiated public media content with a wide range of views than ever before, which is prepared or acquired by the fund on the basis of the order of the media service provider. The Fund shall also provide target support for the production of public service programmes in a tendering system. The Media Patronage planned for 2016 will be implemented through grants in accordance with the programme's objective: support for the operational and technical development of social and local media service providers and the creation of films that represent a professionally significant value, but have little ability to generate revenue. The main aspect of investments is to keep pace with technical progress and to improve efficiency. Some of the content of MTVA can be downloaded to state-of-the-art telecommunications devices, as well as content and news on the Internet. A major investment is the introduction of a channel management system covering the entire content production activity of MTVA, which manages all television channels and radio transmitters in a uniform manner, making the processes significantly simpler and more transparent. For example, the Public Service Culture Nonprofit Ltd., Digitalisation Workshop Ltd., the Foundation of the Public Service Media Academy, as well as the employment of artists, are also covered by the archiving of digital content and training of professionals. [[21.40]] Dear Parliament, It can therefore be said that the public service media responds greatly to people's differentiated needs, is capable of presenting a wide range of views, political approaches, and is capable of meeting the requirements of demanding broadcasting. This is all behind the budget figures of the 2016 draft, while meeting the need for efficient management. On the basis of what has been said, I propose to my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Well done, Mr. Novak. Mrs. Loránt Violin and Mrs. Novak are applauding.]]
u2015-10-19-326	I now give the floor to László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-10-19-327	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we will be discussing the 2016 budget in the same way in ourselves, because the government is not present, but he also said that he has nothing to do with this in the world. The detail and the detail, that's what we've heard, that's what I need to reflect on. I asked for it last year, and I finally asked for it with results this year, and it should be properly detailed, for example, how much of which types of frequency charges the media authority collects. In order to be a basis for comparison with the 32 billion local budgets that will be available to you, this is an item of 18.9 billion, which, on multiple requests, was sent to the Committee on Budgets as rapporteur on their own behalf. Of course, given this debate, I would first respond to the speaker's speech after the rapporteur. I don't know which country's media authority is what we've heard of. I have written myself these, I always try to write down keywords: versatile, enjoyable, balanced, partner to parents, suitable to present differentiated needs and different political directions to the farthest possible extent. That's what we've been listening to before, and there's been a lot more kinky than that in this presentation. Before that, without hurting my colleague Lajos Szűcs, we would not be able to quote two of the many numbers he has told us. Thanks to God, we, of course, have been able to look at it from ourselves, but I do not think that we are here to talk about the media authority of another country, which is certainly suitable for these, and the media presence of which is certainly suitable for what our fellow Member has said here, nor to listen at a sort of - I do not want to put it badly - production conference to the numbers that are written down, but to talk to us about the content behind it, or the movements behind which our name, others will vote, even their yes vote. It follows that since the merger of the National Communications Authority and the ORTT, since we have a convergent media authority, your number will rise again from 650 to 680 the following year, and this will bring a net cost increase of around HUF 10 million each of the new employees, and, of course, will also pay public charges, taxes and contributions. It is also necessary to see, as I said in my previous speech, when there is a wave of government institutions, a number of supervisory institutions, especially if they are so fluctuating, we believe that there is only cleaning, so that someone is being built down and others are being replaced. I don't think that last year there were so many unprofessional people and people that you couldn't be proud of. Of course, we also need to say that we meet again with what we say every year, and every year we get a half-truth: what does the NMHH reserve? Why does it constitute a reserve of one third of its own budget? And if you're going to do that, then why is the line in the budget that's a reserve, and why isn't the task that this money is intended for? I believe that if this is a real task, if it is reasonable, if it can be done transparently, if it can be obtained and otherwise done with others, then there is nothing to hide. If we see that you're always trying to do a thing or two out of some big hat, some sort of backup, I guess, and then the rest of it stays in place, because somehow the tasks that we hear here, like digitization... on the second floor, I honestly don't remember, but in my notes, I have what you said at the Committee on Budgets. It will probably not happen next year either, and next year we will see again that the NMHH will plan its own budget with some larger budgetary reserve. What are they up to? Are they saving up for 2018, when they're gonna buy new media and media? Do you have to pay for journalists? Don't they still push government propaganda hard enough in psychics with taxpayers' money? Such thoughts arise when unreasonable or wrong answers are given. I think it's an incompetent attempt. It's not a question, it's an experiment. They attempt to include one third of their own budget, obviously more money next year without a real task, but still there is an institution that is a state in the state, where we cannot even ask. I understand, of course, my fellow Member, what you are saying formally, I have also written down what you were able to say: the government, the Member and the committee can present it. We're members and we're a committee, so we're already here, I can't see the government, it's not coming here anymore. I know you can make a bill, I get it, but that's what this is gonna be. So now we are going to present this in committee and ask for our blessing and for us to believe you with our eyes closed that it is quite well, that we are, by the way, even as rapporteur, in the debate on this budget, here in Parliament. I believe that what we can rightly expect from the preparation, presentation and implementation of each budget, and there are rules and standards behind it: transparency, reasonable detail, executability. Nor can the excessive reserve be implemented, my fellow Members. Too big a reserve then doesn't belong there, we either give it a task or we take it away from it. There is no decision-making body higher than this parliament in this country, even if the NMHH, I understand that if it does not have to come here, however, I consider it a really rude thing that they do not participate in the debate, they cannot speak up. The Attorney General really did do that if he couldn't answer something on the spot, then, of course, we received answers in a letter, which we received two weeks later. I don't think this is gonna happen to us right now. So I do not agree with the requirement of transparency, it is not going to happen here. The requirement of reasonable detail is not met when, on request, two thirds of their revenue is only available for questioning and one third of their entire budget is never detailed but is included in the budget with a reserve heading. Thus, since it is not transparent and rationally detailed, it cannot be implemented. I believe that this can be broken down to 8-5-3 and 10 million forints, as we have heard in the author's exposé, but I think that the problem is not with what we labeled, but with what we did not label. It must be said again, you can do this because there is a one-party supervisory board, a one-party supervisory body for the NMHH, there are appointed, appointed, without any tender, any members of it, and they can come out of it when, by checking their own work, there is a sort of internal control, that sometimes without public procurement, they buy rather large programmes from outside, sometimes they do unwatched programmes, but in no case any of the things that my fellow Member spoke of. [[21.50]] It was obviously written nicely, it was very soundy, but the problem is that it is not true at all that it is versatile, enjoyable, balanced, is a partner of the parent, meets differentiated needs and is suitable for conveying and serving different political needs. It is capable of meeting a political need: it is the political need of the government. It is not suitable for meeting differentiated needs, because it is forbidden for him. It's not versatile, it's not enjoyable, it's not balanced in any way. At times I'm sure he's a partner of the parent, and I can't judge that, and I don't quite understand how it got here. In any case, as a closing point, I would like to say that the quality of this debate is that we are not actually debating, but who is reading what has been written to him, others are expressing their views, and the authority itself cannot be debated. Most of the quality of the media is, in fact, the quality of this debate that we can listen to and see, and that would be meant to convey every news without partiality and anger - to quote someone, not Jenő Hidden, but Seneca - so should history, chronicles, and perhaps even the media, if you are already working with so much money, then you should do so. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-19-328	Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP Group is still not here [[Zoltán Lukács: It probably won't happen today!]] So I'll give the floor to Congressman Novak, the lead speaker of Jobbik.
u2015-10-19-329	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Each of the Government's record State Secretarys is theatrically absent from this debate, and the new Minister of Propaganda does not consider it necessary to participate in the debate on the public media budget for the next year, which can be considered the main pillar of government propaganda, saying that they cannot take responsibility for all of this and wash their hands. This is an attempt to demonstrate in a very hypocritical way that public media is actually under the control of an independent authority. Of course, we don't like people to think we're stupid. We all know the level of party media under the government of Fidesz that has become public media. So I was just thinking, if under the MSZP government, the way the public media worked, what should we do today? We have, therefore, a proposal, which, in a sleek manner, not only has its debate gone into the night as usual, and so it has always been possible to object to the operation of public media, but now even the daytime debates are not broadcast by public media, even though it is able to reserve a significant part of its budget. In other words, the public media receives so much money that it cannot spend it, yet it cannot fulfil its basic obligation to provide information in many areas, so that we do not go so far, that Parliament's mediations have been abolished. After all of this, it is especially impertinent that even this debate, namely the substantive debate of the report, is not allowed to take place, but we can only discuss some kind of financial affairs here. Not on the content report, his debate was moved to the Committee on Culture, where we cannot speak to him as policy makers due to the Commission's hand. This is not a criticism of the President of the Committee on Culture, but of the Fidesz majority, which, for example, did not agree to vote for me. After all, therefore, if we can have a substantive debate on the media in plenary, not only outside of the television broadcasting period, but at no time, let us talk about the financial issues that, let us say, should be compared with the Buda-Cash broker scandal. Perhaps this does not go beyond the framework of house rules, and it may still be possible to talk about it in plenary. The whole Hungarian financial world is crazy, it is right that more than a hundred billion forints have been cheated, and in a decade and a half, the broker company's cheating leaders managed to bring it together, but in one year, MTVA alone is not taking that much money. It is worth noting on page 3 of this proposal that HUF 9.1 billion of 32 billion is still being spent as a reserve. As we have seen in the 2014 accounts, there is already an amazing amount of money left over by the authorities, HUF 38.2 billion. That's what this year's hoarding is gonna come up with. So you get so much money in public media, you can't even spend it. Of the 28 percent of the budget, if you look at next year and you don't look at the reserve, the author doesn't know what else he wants to spend it on, but it's good to have this reserve. I think this is extremely frivolous. If this were the only problem with the NMHH budget for next year, it would not be possible to support this bill. Moreover, this entire budget is characterised by lack of transparency. In the past, the Civil Service Budget Council decided on the distribution of public media state support between broadcasters and individual public service activities. However, according to the changes that entered into force on 1 July, MTVA proposes the amount to be used for the production and acquisition of media content, and the CCCTB has only an opinionary right. And the council now has only three members. It seems that decision-making has become much more centralized. Basically, there's one-man leadership, with very weak corporate control. Based on all this, I think that Duna Media Services Zrt. really doesn't make any sense anymore. and the separation of MTVA, it would be easier to combine these two and put them under the public foundation. The budget is therefore not sufficiently detailed in order to have a substantive say in what we want from taxpayers' money, either with an amending proposal. So let's not be surprised if Hungarian historical films will not be made again at MTVA, for example, while during the raiding of Andy Vajna at the Film Fund, historical themes are essentially exhausted in Holocaust films. When we submitted a budget amendment proposal every year to make historical films, we typically found deaf ears, but there was a case of our target support requirement of HUF 500 million being voted off in the Cultural and Press Committee led by L. Simon László. We have proposed to separate only one 500 million forints out of the tens of billions in order to spend on this. 'Cause by the way, we can see that there are billions of soap operas called Martians and all sorts of other unwatchable shows. But the Fidesz majority voted against it on the grounds that 500 million forints were not enough. After that, we have typically presented our budget amendment of HUF 2 billion, which has, of course, been swept down in the same way. I think that this cynical attitude is so important, I might say, on a matter of national strategy, because it could also be about shaping national consciousness, which is typical of Fidesz. It is also typical of the entire budget that it is not sufficiently detailed, so it is not only historical films, but in many other respects it is not possible to set specific tasks and be accountable for them even through the closing accounts. After all this, it is amazing that the government will take over MTVA's HUF 47.2 billion debt this year by amending the budget. The Ministry of National Economy announced that, in the context of amending the budget, the public media would in fact be freed from this huge debt under one smoke. This inherited debt represents the acquisition of the credit for the purchase of the new production base in Óbuda. In 2012, a loan package of HUF 63 billion was taken from four banks, partly for the purchase of the Kunigunda Street building, and partly for the replacement of previous loans. Unfortunately, we don't know much more about these details, because they typically make such simple budget proposals. This was one of the biggest crimes of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, one of the most eloquent evidence of the failure of the TV headquarters scandal and accountability. This is how they try to make it even more forgotten, and now, as if by taking on the government, they may even try to close it immediately. I think, in the midst of all these past eight years, there would have been an opportunity to show real accountability even in this perfectly clear and easily defined case. After all, here it was essentially a serious headquarters contract, the responsible ones of which could and should have been found even in the curatoriums. Moreover, the debt has to be taken over as proposed by the government because in recent months, the launch of the M1 news channel and the M4 sports channel has increased MTVA's expenditure and has been unable to pay its loans. It is amazing that the M4 sports channel or sports broadcasts in general, let's say, how many billions, how many tens of billions are to be paid for, we are not informed about them from such a proposal, but also, where appropriate, from statements of State Secretary. However, it would be good to have a wider social debate on this, and on the other hand, whether, in addition to such audiences, they deserve the billions we spend on sports rights, for example. [[22.00]] But the M1 news channel alone, I think, would be worth a mass, or at least some confessions from those involved. Let's not talk about good news now, and how to hang billions more and more on that basis, because it's a separate disgrace. If there is no substantive criticism to be drawn up here in plenary now, this issue has been delegated to a committee, let's just stick to the money, let's talk about it. Then let's talk about the fact that in February this year, according to the news, MTVA has relieved 177 of its staff because it wanted to rationalise the costs and implemented restrictions in Hungarian. Despite this, he hired new people on the basis of the new programming structure, who received a prominent multimedia journalist status, including the son of President János Áder. You've come to such an influential place, what a coincidence! According to the trade unions, the negotiations with the employer revealed that, despite MTVA's earlier claim, the reduction of 177 employees did not save any or even increased expenditure by hiring new workers. Also during the winter atlatszo.hu reported how well it pays to blog on the five thematic blogs launched by public media. According to the published contracts, for example, Tamás Lánczi at the end of the century receives a gross monthly HUF 380 thousand as a blogger, and also receives an individual remuneration of an unpredicted amount for posts. Or Deputy State Secretary Gergely Prőhle and Mayor Károly Szita Fideszes, who, to add, was previously an III/II agent, reported even on his relatives - what is the current government's prize? They also receive HUF 250,000 gross, together with Gergely Prőhle, on a fixed basis, because he brings together his own blog, but they can both take extra money if they write posts. András Cser-Palkovics, Zsolt Páva Pécsi and Mayor Ákos Kriza Fidesz in Miskolc will also receive a fee, but the exact amount they receive has not been reported by MTVA, but it has only been found that they can take a salary based on individual assessment. So now we understand these billionaire and otherwise not detailed budgets! It is incomprehensible after all this, or it may be quite talkative and in fact understandable why it happened in June of this year in Parliament's Budget Committee, that the majority of governments voted in favour of the amendment that excluded the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund from the scope of the Public Procurement Act in two areas. In this way, MTVA operating the public media does not need to intervene either the programmes or even the means to produce the programmes should not be subject to a public procurement procedure. Finally, allow once again some fundamental criticism of this proposal. The Hungarian practice of having two budgets for one country is unknown elsewhere in Europe. Unfortunately, for now, our fight for us goodies seems hopeless, so that Hungary does not have two state budgets. The NMHH is not part of public finances, although it could be a chapter of the central budget, such as the Constitutional Court or even the Parliament. The Budget Committee does not deal with planning. The budget is a financial plan, which requires a great deal of information, a wide range of knowledge of legislation. I'm not saying I have one like that. These are not provided by the committee. Not even the Budget Committee itself, that's not your job. Professionally, he has no insight into what the media authority apparatus has done. He doesn't know what's in the details. He gives his blessing to something that he was not sure about, since he didn't even get involved in design. The media authority has a management structure that is actually a state in the state. It is not part of the central budget as a chapter; its President cannot be asked, as I have already made an objection to the previous item on the agenda. In this sense, there is no parliamentary control of the operation of the media, the government washes its hands, and the competent authorities cannot be asked like the Attorney General. Therefore, the Parliament does not exercise merit control. There's a lot to ask, a lot to ask, but we can't. The minutes show that the president of the Media Council did not appear at the committee meeting either. So not only now that ten billion are being asked, he doesn't respect Parliament, he doesn't respect it at the committee meeting. Therefore, it was impossible to ask, and certainly not to ask at the plenary session. However, in the good old days, if it is possible to call the practice even a few years ago, the president of the NMHH was able to present the content report which we would much rather discuss at the plenary session, but it could not be on the agenda this year in Parliament. The sensitive questions about how public media became party media and government propaganda were banished to the commission. Of course, it must be added that the Deputy Director of the NMHH gave correct answers at the committee meeting, but his mandate is limited. The MSZP chairman of the Committee on Budgets does not demonstrate a serious professional need by giving his name to this proposal, despite being on a forced course. Let's add that László Nyikos did this when he was the opposition president by handing it over to one of his vice presidents for signature. Moreover, the lack of interest of the MSZP president of the submitting committee has shown that he has not said his versions of this plan in the Commission debate and is not participating in the debate now. On the other hand, as on the previous agenda, in this item on the agenda, I think that we have tried to explain in relatively detailed terms within the narrow framework of the house rules, since our substantive criticism would be based on such a wrinkle tail account and, after this budget, on the substance report. However, we cannot do this because the majority of the government has banished the debate on this high-profile report to the commission. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-19-330	Ladies and gentlemen, As the LMP is not present in today's debate, we have reached the end of the speech. There is now room for further speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-10-19-331	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would say to my better fellow Member that the MSZP chairman of the Committee on Budgets may not be involved in the debate, but there are four or five of us. I think this shows that this report, this draft budget, this proposal is of great importance on our part. At this late hour, there are a total of two factions, which have a meaningful number of participations, Jobbik and MSZP factions. My fellow Member from Fidesz, Szűcs, has won this honour to sit here, but besides, the dog doesn't care about this issue. This shows that the other factions either do not understand the importance of this, or do not really deal with this issue, because, as has already been said, neither the KDNP, nor the LMP, nor the Propagandaministérium, nor even János Lázár will participate. They're probably busy with the catfight, I liked the expression, Rogán and Lazarus were classified as fighting, it's a funny thing. I was thinking, when my fellow Member Szűcs talked about not slipping, it was not the Parliament's decision, but the Fidesz faction decided that these issues could not be discussed here in Parliament. So it was you who tried to hide every debate in this house on some committee site, precisely because you think it would be easier to cover up difficult questions or not answer them properly. The media, one of the main media players, such as the public service media, should be debated here at the plenary session of Parliament. In Hungarian, it was not the Parliament's decision, but the Fidesz faction. My fellow Member Bárándy also said that Members who are members of the committee can take part in the debate on the content of the committee, although it is obvious that it can affect a wider circle. Look, I've seen a debate when an opposition representative went in, and they didn't give him the floor because he was voted off by the Fidesz people. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's right.]] and they said that the opposition representative had asked too many questions there to give an opinion, so keep your mouth shut, so they quickly decided, on a case-by-case basis, that Members who were not members of the committee would not be able to speak to him or to limit the number of rounds they could comment on to the members of the committee. [[22.10]] So I understand that, theoretically, everything is possible, but then the Fidesz majority decides what is allowed in the specifics of the day, which is why I say that there should have been a much better place for this debate here at the plenary session of Parliament. I understand that you always draw attention to the title of this proposal. As weird as we are, we can read, we simply have to express our opinion here in such a way. The other thing is that my fellow Members did not ask that the president of the NMHH is not sitting in the horseshoe or somewhere, but that he was asked to have an unfortunate colleague who was condemned to sit here while the debate took place and write a reminder of this, but once again, the dog does not care what is said in this debate. I think it would be a perfectly legitimate expectation from the Hungarian Parliament, on the part of the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, that at some level of leadership, apart from the Parliamentary Secretary, someone should listen to what is happening in relation to the debate that will determine the budget and thus the life of this authority for the following year. So I still think it is right for all opposition representatives to suggest that there is little representation, even if they are unable to respond to the debate, but, as I hear, they do not participate in committee meetings on a number of occasions at the presidential level. So I think this shows how this authority feels about the Hungarian Parliament and the criticisms that are being said here or at the committee meeting. So I would ask my fellow Member, Szűcs, to interpret to the Fidesz faction that, indeed, opposition representatives have initiated the return of this debate to Parliament, and not to make a decision at the committee meeting, so change a wrong decision and give us the opportunity to speak here. Mr Simon, I was wondering, and for this I would give him a reward in the Fidesz fraction, because it was because he could read what he said without laughing, I think it was an achievement. So both I and my fellow chef have written some funny sentences. In a subtle way, this, with a wide range of perspectives, is incompatible with Magyar Television, because there are no many points of view, only the fidesz viewpoint. Then it really does meet people's differentiated needs. It may be suitable for many things, but not for the differentiated needs of people, but for the Fidesz people, the needs of fidesz politicians, because it serves almost and exclusively. The most beautiful really is this . is able to provide a variety of information, satisfying all needs. If you think about the hardware, so the tools themselves, they certainly can do that, but if you look at it from the point of view of the content, you certainly can't. The pearl of this, an efficient management, was perhaps the culmination of this speech, which our fellow Member Simon read out. He probably felt that what he was saying was really embarrassing because he left, so as a lead speaker, he said what he had to say, and then he went home. I'm sure it's better at home, but let's just say, if he was already a lead speaker, maybe he could have waited for the end of this debate. You should have waited another hour, and then you could have listened to all of this. The reason why we are debating this diverse information is because we are talking about public money, taxpayers' forints, so to speak, our money and the money and taxes of the opposition voters constitute the Hungarian budget, and we would therefore rightly expect the information to be balanced. However, it makes me wonder that a commercial channel, such as the RTL Club, has a more balanced newscast than the Hungarian public service media, which certainly raises serious questions. Although we have already talked about it, because a good-looking Member has spoken about it, I think that the problem is not whether it's made from a particular movie or whether it's made on a certain subject, but the problem is that many other topics are not filmed, because if a fidesz buddy doesn't want to make a movie about something, it doesn't matter what it's content is, from a national perspective, or any other socially important conflict or issue is processed or a historical situation is processed. So what I see today in Hungarian public television is a film about what's in the head of some fidesz buddy. So in Hungarian, it is possible to make films that are of some importance... - and I also recommend to my better colleagues that if they really want to make a movie about something or make a movie, they should find a fidesz buddy who will be able to make sure that he has some kind of target support in his budget for Magyar Television, because it has clearly become a paying place for this Hungarian Television. To say something good - I wasn't entirely fair in my previous comment, because I said, "All the bad things that this authority does." I would say that the Internet speed measurement website is a good initiative, even because it is really useful for consumers to be able to measure the quality of the internet service provided by the service provider, but it is, in fact, quite slowly exhausting what we can praise this authority for. There is one more question, and I wanted to ask you this: if there were anyone here who would tell us, it is what is going on with this cross-border broadcasting. The Prime Minister has given orders to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Why, I don't know, I'm sure you know better than I do why he deals with media issues. But in his last camp in Transylvania, Fidesz has come up with the young people there or the participants, why they cannot see the sports channel and much else in an appropriate capacity beyond the border, especially if this authority has so much money or so much money, and thus the fund, then where does this implementation go, because in the end Zsolt Semjén has to go, because he didn't immediately carry out what the Prime Minister had to do for him. So if my fellow Member Szűcs has any information about this and would like to share it with us, I would like to thank him for his so-called expansion or the possibility of broadcasting to Hungarians across the border. The fact that this organization is asking for so much money next year, and they want to spend so much money on this, as we have already said, is quite amazing, and, as my fellow Member Szakács said, it is terrible, because these funds could be spent in a much better place than on this authority or on Magyar Television, because there is no reason to spend such funds. Secondly, you mentioned the HUF 32 billion - or roughly HUF 32 billion - in relation to revenue, my fellow Member Szűcs, this is also an interesting thing, since it is also due to fines in some respects, and it is also very difficult to follow how these fines are imposed by this authority. So you're not the right flow of information, or the system by which these fines are imposed, because sometimes it seems like these are criminal duties for certain media. So, overall, we are also proposing and asking the rapporteur to withdraw this proposal from the Committee on Budgets. We funnyly told my fellow Member, Mr Laci, that while he was out, he could have quickly withdrawn this proposal as a member of the Committee on the Budget. But I don't want to joke about it. It would simply be worth rethinking this and returning this proposal to the National Communications Authority and its President, and saying that it should be rethinking whether such money should be spent in a way that is as opaque as they would possibly plan and would not be much more efficient and more space for these resources on other lines of the budget. Secondly, what my fellow Member Simon could really talk about without smiling and laughing is, in fact, a wide range of viewpoints, not just a fidesz perspective, meet people's differentiated needs, parents should really be partners, and really be diverse, satisfying all needs in addition to an efficient management of the Hungarian public service media. This would be in everyone's interest here in Hungary, for all taxpayers, and then would not remain so ashamed, and once again, this television and other related organs would not be more balanced even the newscast of commercial televisions. And what is quite amazing is what my fellow Member Bárándy has just said, namely that the Hungarian Telegram Office is in fact choosing between the news, selecting and communicating or not information on the basis of whether it is just pleasing to political commissaries, who may be assigned to it. [[22.20]] This certainly is not good for colleagues who want or want to perform their work and activities effectively. In conclusion, let me conclude by summing up all the debates and comments that have been said, at least on the part of our group, by saying that, of course, what we have said as criticism is not criticism for the people working there, because most of them certainly think it would be good to be able to do their job on the basis of professional standards, on the basis of international standards, regardless of party policy. They try to do this every day, but the Fidesz communications center, now the propaganda industry with enormous resources behind it, does not allow them to do it, and they want to talk about how a journalist or editor does their job on a daily basis. In Hungarian, for those of you who do your job fairly there, I could only translate to thank you for your work, and in no way did we think that everyone in the Hungarian Television, in the public service media, is consciously doing their job serving Fidesz. In fact, in many cases we feel that they are in a difficult situation, because they have to choose between keeping their jobs and serving the needs, or if they dare to speak against them, they can find themselves on the street. This also points to the harsh and vile system Fidesz invented five years ago when it created this whole whorehouse called the National Media and Communications Authority and other attached bodies. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2015-10-19-332	I now give the floor to Mrs. Loránt Violin.
u2015-10-19-333	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make one or two comments very briefly, because my fellow Member, Mr President Novák, has just been very detailed about the bill, one of the most typical features of which is that it is not quite detailed. I'd like to show you for the camera. [[He's showing it to me.]] To capture his sight once and for all: we are talking about the fate of a total of HUF 110 billion, and that is two pages, true, on the second page there are only four short lines. I'd like to say that a 30 000-dollar city, with development funds of 5 billion a year, has to put a good one-and-a-half-pound piece of paper on the table as a draft budget regulation. Recently, Minister of State Banai boasted that the big budget and the final figure each weighs 12 kilos, not to mention the background calculations and background studies that are still in addition. Compared to this, these two sides, which contain the norm text, are in fact scandalous, scandalously violating the principle of reasonable detail. Obviously, the aim is also that the small items that have been said here before, how much they spend on a show, cannot be traced in the draft budget law, because they are gross overbills that are almost the limit of ridicule. It has also been said that this is almost a crime. Well, it's not a crime anymore, but let's just say it's a kind of money laundering, because it's about spending on programs and unwatchable programs that no one's looking at, specifically from alibi functions, so that they can transfer money in some way. Yes, this Fidesz corruption, this is what the Jobbik Movement for Hungary talked so much about during the day, with which we would like to finally confront society. The other question that would be useful if we could get an answer here and now, whether from our fellow Member Szűcs, is that we know that there is a legislative amendment in this House. That's why I wouldn't have minded if someone from the Justice Department had shown up, because they were responsible for coordinating the government's legislative work. How is it possible that the fate of HUF 47 billion is not known whether it is in these two small pacsametas, so it is included in the norm text and tables in some way, i.e. it is already marked, but where is the independence of the NMHH, which is said to be a certain number of times; 2. or it is not in it, then why do we vote about it, then why do we talk about the question of this money, at all, about the draft law, because we know that at the very moment that it is voted on, it has already expired and we can vote for a new one, because if the House - obviously not with our votes, but with a fidesz majority - will vote for this 47 billion debt transfer, then this bill is considered obsolete. I would very much ask my fellow Member, Szűcs, to return to us for a short time and, instead of external sources of information, to address the debate in order to respond to this. This was also raised in the debate on the amendment of Law C of 2014 as to the way in which the government, in its legislative work, was collaborating these two draft laws before us. We didn't get an answer then, but I really hope we can do it this time. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-334	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2015-10-19-335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I too, as many of you, I think, have been inspired to speak briefly in the context of the speech by our lead speaker, Mr Robert Simon. Because what my fellow Member Cook and my fellow Member Mesterházy have already said about how our fellow Member has endured without laughing is indeed a good question. Maybe they told him to always think about the inverse of what he says, and then he can stay serious, or really think about another country's media authority, and then maybe he can stay serious. But it was indeed telling, as after reading the victory report, he was likely to be ashamed of himself. And I started to wonder what the Member was thinking when he said the ominous sentences about how objective and well-functioning MTVA and NMHH were in Hungary. Did you think of the cover-up of Zoltán Lomnici when you spoke about it, or of the public media, television, about the protest that took place at the time of the entry into force of the Fundamental Law, or of the Censorship and Distortion of the MTI, or of Dániel Papp's final forgery? Or perhaps what was said by several people, and it was also published in the media that the Fidesz faction press is giving daily briefings on friendly television stations - if I remember correctly, in the material, was this statement made by Péter Tarr, Deputy Director General of News TV - or is he referring to the mournful country reports of Freedom House, where media freedom is rewarded year after year with worse points? And then I began to think about my own experiences of when, in the spirit of extremely balanced information, in the spirit of diverse information, the public was informed, let us say, of the socialist position and proposals on migration, not in the interpretation of a fidesz MEP, but in the interpretation of one of our own representatives. Or when have we been invited into the topics that are important to us, which form the central messages of the MSZP, to the public media, a socialist representative? And then suddenly I wondered whether, compared to being the most active 5 percent of the Members of Parliament, I had been invited to public service television in the last year, and then I realized that I did not. [[22.30]] Is that what Congressman Simon was talking about when he spoke about this highly balanced MTV and NMHH? And it also occurred to me that, in relation to all these examples that I have mentioned, when and what procedures did the NMHH initiate, and when it condemned the public service media in these cases because of the imbalance. And then I had to realize that it was indeed the position of my fellow Member, Mesterházy and Cook, that it was probably very difficult for Mr Simon, without laughing, to stop reading the victory report on the Hungarian public media relations and the operation of the NMHH. About, if we break this down to budget level, if this is the performance of the NMHH that we have seen so far, then the fair grant amount would be approximately zero forints for 2016. And as Attila Mesterházy said, none of our statements really label the employees who work there as employees, either as correspondents at the MTI or as employees at NMHH, but the senior management that was willing to submit to a Fidesz party propaganda, submit to the Prime Minister's single-person leadership's will. Finally, since it is also relevant in this debate, because there is not a single senior head of the NMHH here, which my fellow Member Szűcs has said, according to which I or we would carry out an incompetent experiment, well, two comments on this point, Mr Szűcs. One is that it is a criminal policy concept, and if I wanted to convert it, then they used to use the kind of example that a dead man cannot be killed; if I wanted to live with such an example, I would say that a resigned president cannot be called into account. But this president's not canceled, but he's not here. He's in his office, unfortunately, here in Parliament, he didn't show up. So I don't think there's a good example in that. He is not deaf, as my fellow Member Mesterházy shouted in the last debate. If he were here, he would probably hear what we are saying and, like the Attorney General, he would at least be able to reply in writing if you did not allow him to take part in the debate here personally. And I also believe that it is not inappropriate to be responsible for the budget and the operation of the NMHH as President. So when I make criticism to him here in Parliament, I do that right, because we are actually discussing a bill, but the subject and content of this bill is the operation and budget of the NMHH. Which, of course, the president is heavily responsible for. Once again, the concept of experimenting on an unsuitable subject is a concept that can be used in criminal proceedings, but my fellow Member Szűcs may already see the future when he links the management of NMHH and MTVA with certain criminal proceedings - I do not rule out that this will be the end of the matter. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-19-336	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs.
u2015-10-19-337	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Of course, we are not having a dispute here, and I said that it is an inappropriate issue, and I did not say it directly to the legal category, but, of course, we must always be able to distance ourselves from this whole situation, but we are still in Parliament. However, I would like to draw everyone's attention to one thing: why this bill has just been put in front of this House. There is a very serious and substantial reason for this, namely the adoption of the 2016 budget in the summer and the possibility for the media authority and the Media Council to prepare their own budget after the adoption of the budget. It follows from this, honourable Member, that we voted in favour of this House on the budget for the Media Council and for the media authority once in the budget for next year. It also follows that the parts that these authorities receive from the State budget will come before us and we will discuss them in the report of the Finance Act, and then we will have the opportunity to debate the budgetary accounts of the entire media authority and Council here. But, of course, I would also like to say once again to everyone that the conduct of professional debates will not be in plenary, as you said, but in committee meetings, the Committee on Culture and Economics will make these reports. I think because I have had the pleasure of listening to both the report and the budget proposal last year, I do not want to make serious criticisms, but in a number of cases you have agreed on this proposal in a copy/paste way. Last year, Mr President Novák said the same sentences about the report and the bill, and even Mr Zoltán Lukács said almost the same sentences as he did during the discussion of last year's report and budget proposal. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Because he hasn't improved anything.]] This may also show that this story was not too stimuliful for you. As a closing point, I would like to say that I would like to ask the fellow Members to vote in favour of this bill after a detailed debate has taken place. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-10-19-338	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. Mr László Varju has already withdrawn his speech after the agenda for many years, even though we could have more information about the events of the last week. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] On the other hand, Mr Sándor Bodó is present on Fidesz's behalf, and he was also preparing to speak after the agenda:, Hajdúszoboszló is the bath of the year in 2015. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, the title and content of my comment on the agenda is that this year Hajdúszoboszló won the title of the bath of the year. Even in the life of an organization, it often becomes competitive, and it always brings out an additional inspiration. There are competitions that require long, thorough preparation, and there is plenty of time, and then there is a time when suddenly, quickly, you have to perform some kind of good product. In the last month, Hajduszoboszló's bath took a very serious role in a competition where it was chosen as the bath of the year. In any case, I congratulate all the workers and leaders whose work has made this possible. Of course, such an address can only be truly credible if we can also see what is behind it, the work, the preliminary investments that were essential for this purpose. By the way, it was a public vote that decided to award the title itself. On the termalfurdo.hu website, the Hungarian Association of Baths actually issued this option of voting. Between June 4 and September 30, so it was possible to vote on the Internet around the time of the high season. The aim of the organizers was to invite visitors to a traditional competition, on the one hand, and baths themselves, to draw attention to the well-known fact that our country is a thermal water power. This is clearly known in this House and perhaps in front of all Hungarian citizens that, in terms of medicinal and thermal waters, perhaps there is no country that can fight with us. [[22.40]] There is no county in Hungary where there is no one or more internationally recognised bathing sites. Returning to the vote a little bit more: its seriousness indicates that nearly 200,000 people voted - a very big number, by the way - and 200 Hungarian baths actually received a vote. As I said, of course, it is a great pride for me that the Hungarospa of Hajdúszoboszló in our constituency was elected, voted and rewarded by all those who took the time to do so. Hajdúszoboszló - obviously you all know - is one of the largest spa complexes in the country and Europe with a spa, beach, aqua park, swimming pool and indoor adventure bath, a 30-hectare area, beautifully landscaped. Extreme orbits, extreme zones, adventure slides, waterfalls, so I think that every age group will find the most interesting and most relaxing service for itself. Of course, continuous improvements are necessary, because these results could not have been achieved without it. Looking at recent years, we may be able to mention perhaps three major chapters of developments. On the one hand, there was a development of 4.8 billion between 2008 and 2010, of which 2.2 billion were state aid. This was an extremely high-profile development that really influenced the whole image of the spa. Then this work continued in 2013, and the expansion of the aqua park was achieved with a value of HUF 500 million. This part is what I told you earlier, perhaps in favour of young people: 6 new extreme slides, 20 m climbing walls, children's adventure park and the thermal hall of the spa were also renovated. As we say, of course, these improvements cannot only be supported from the practical side, and it is also important that those working in the spa receive the best possible preparation. In the framework of this, the institution and the company received HUF 10 million in support of the achievement of health and awareness-raising lifestyle programs. As I mentioned, the aim was to ensure that the workers were as prepared to receive the guests as possible. This is all a result that I think has enabled this recognition to be gained, the trust of the voters. Of course, this work will continue in the future. It is a significant achievement that Hajdúszoboszló can be included in the list of Hungarian Hungaricums, and an agreement has been reached that thermal water can be included in this system of values. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Just one more date, thank you for your patience, Mr President: it will now be exactly 90 years ago on 25 October that this prestigious institution, the bath in Hajdúszoboszló, has opened and has been waiting for visitors ever since. Thank you for your patience.
u2015-10-19-340	Ladies and gentlemen, In response to the next agenda, Mr László György Lukács, on behalf of Jobbik, spoke with the Secretary of State for New Health. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-341	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today was the end of the unworthy delay and the unworthy process surrounding the election and selection of the new Secretary of State for Health. For 44 days, it was not possible to know who the new State Secretary of Health was, which was sad or sad for several reasons, but one of the reasons is because the government itself has been searching for its own way in health policy for five years - and not only during these 44 days, but for five years - is not finding, is not mature or predictable and, as they say, their granite health policy. Another reason why this event is very important or sad is that for 44 days, health workers, health professionals, all those who operate health care have been kept in doubt. But what could the new Secretary of State have said or said? What's his credo supposed to say, if you like? It should definitely tell us what you are doing with health institution debts that are now slowly blocking the functioning of the system and which stem from under-fundedness. But you could also talk about the career model, i.e. how you wish to pay healthcare workers and those who are going to move forward in it - whether doctors or health professionals - as they are known to be extremely low in relation to Hungarian wages, although they also belong to the back region in a European context. That's how we take care of our health workers to keep them on a low wage. However, he could have said something about discussing or taking action against the problem of emigration. Instead, he told me about it - and here I will try to flash some conflicting information right away from what Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, the Minister of State for Health, said by him. He said that, in contrast to institutional interests, he wanted to represent the interests of the people in the first place. By the way, this is a very sympathetic, sympathetic attitude for the people, but it has less good news for the institutions. We remember that until now, all governments have shown that they have been at the forefront of cutting down hospitals and closing classes instead of providing more resources, they have always provided only institutional structural cuts. Looks like we're probably gonna have some closure right now. The other thing he said, however, was that he wanted to bring health care back to people, which is the opposite of that; here the two statements directly contradict each other, because if he does not want to represent the interests of the institutions, that is to say, to close institutions, it will be very difficult to bring the institutions back to the people, because he is taking them from there. The other thing that hit a lot of people - and this is exactly the relationship with the previously mentioned career model - is that since 2010 Fidesz has been saying every year that it will be introduced in the following year, and basically in 2015 it has been repeated so much that it will be introduced from 2016, well, the State Secretary for New Health started by saying that there is no way to introduce a career model, the career model as such has been rejected. This also shows that the Orbán government's health policy seems to have been five years off course when they were talking about a career model, or if we assume worse, they lied constantly to the workers in this sector, and they were led on by something that is not going to happen now. It shows very well that, not only is there continuity, but there is a contradiction between each other in the health spree of the Orbán government that has now been running for five years, as it is now safe to call it that. So we're getting a number of versions of the human resources crisis solution the new Secretary of State has just come up with. Basically, he wants a sectoral collective agreement, which we still don't know the content of. One thing is certain: something must be done with this very urgently, just as there is an urgent need to do something about it - and it has also not been said, even though it could have been said by the new Secretary of State - the debt that the institutions are rolling in front of them. Until this point, health institutions seem to have a debt of HUF 45 billion again, especially with the government reducing their debt by 60 billion at the beginning of the year, although it was not the beginning of the year, but the neighbourhood of May when the decline started. From the previous 80 billion to 20 billion, we see that this debt is once again at 45 billion. Mr Secretary of State did not name - because he could not even identify - what kind of resources would be used to reduce this, because the next year's budget does not include funds for this. So the public would have expected, the health profession would have expected the new Secretary of State for Health to speak honestly about such matters, because then his real intentions could have been judged. We continue to look forward to his comments and revelations in these. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-342	In the speech following the next agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar applied:. How are we doing in the half-time? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-343	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I try to bring up matters related to the national rural strategy every year, not only because this document is my concern, but also because you, the government, have undertaken to lay down a strategy for the period 2010-2020 to show us how to imagine the future of the Hungarian countryside in 2020. I regret that, as I see it, no pro-government Member or member of the government is present, so the answer, I think, is hard to expect, but I will certainly tell you what I have to say. This speech may be a little different from the last few years because there is even more topicality, on the one hand, because it is halftime, it is 2015 and so I should now report on the implementation of the minimum half of the objectives set out in the strategy. [[22.50]] It is also important to talk about this now because there has been a serious plagiarism suspicion around the strategy, since it was developed at the time of Ángyán's State Secretary, while we are experiencing problems with the rural strategy and its implementation plan, such as the Dányi Ignác plan. Here, let me quote former Secretary of State Ángyán, who said that we can call the communication of his other work plagiarism, i.e. intellectual theft, under his own name, the use of the basic idea or details of the work without referring to the author. As I mentioned, this is the case with the Ignác plan of Dányi, as the original material was written by Zsolt Czene and Eszter Tátrai in addition to József Ángyán József, who were also present as authors in the previous version, but there is now 90 percent of the same material on the website, on which the names of Gyula Budai, Kinga Szerdahelyi and József Viski were written as authors. So it's also a little additive to how the government's approach to its former self is. It is also important to talk about, as I said, halfway through this strategy in principle, where we have come from, because we have not only to talk about rural development and agriculture, but we also think, as the former original authors thought, that the implementation of a pro-neutral rural strategy is unimaginable without a quality spiritual background. Here the strategy projected a renewal of upper and middle education and a change of approach. Well, let's not get ahead of ourselves here, but we're heading towards the stage of total disintegration and disintegration. It is also very interesting that the strategy itself places a great deal of emphasis on quality food, and I am not convinced that this strategy has been adopted at government level, although it has not been dared to bring it to Parliament. In the meantime, for example, there is a great deal of anti-GMO in words with the agreement of the entire Parliament, and in practice we see that the trade agreement to be concluded with the US is in practically very advanced state, which no Hungarian competent member, no Hungarian government member, could even say that if we could reach the moment of signature, our country, the Hungarian Parliament, or any elected Member, could decide on Hungary or sign it above our heads in Brussels. Well, the reason we suspect that sneaking is because you already know that that's what's going to happen, and that's going to change our GMO opposition significantly and turn it upside down. We are also concerned about what is happening in Hungary today around the gene banks and the knowledge accumulated there. There is great uncertainty, and in this area too, TTIP is a very big threat, if it is actually signed. However, the national rural strategy would perhaps have been the biggest mission in this ten-year period of time to have an impact on rural decisions, legislation itself, and what is also very important is the allocation of budgetary resources, whether EU or domestic. These have had a lot of impact, we have also seen from today's better speeches - which drew attention to fidesz corruption - that there are quite a lot of factors affecting the allocation of these funds, but unfortunately the national rural strategy is not. From the KSH data it would be possible to show for hours or to give examples that show that exactly the opposite processes laid down in the strategy have started in the whole Hungarian countryside and agriculture area, but I will detail them in a later speech. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-10-19-344	In response to the next agenda, Mr Ander Balázs came forward with a comment on the last oskola in Somogy. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-345	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Where are the times that Mihály Vitéz Csokonai wrote in Somogyi's Chaos? Yesterday Hedrehely and Hedrehely almost got into a cauldron, / not one would give in to the other priest. The poet rhymes with the history of the war between the two settlements of Somogy on the priest Bálint Kis. At that time they knew the truth of what Sándor Hopenyik later said: "Do not leave the church, / The church and the school! And they were able to fight for it. Then other times came. The National Network Development Concept of the MSZMP, which destroyed the countryside in 1971, has put on such a deadly path about two thousand settlements, which were declared non-participant and then hosted by one fifth of the population, which is fatally sealed by the extreme liberal concept of the Hungarian village after the change of regime, which means that the Hungarian village is a medieval repulsion. In more than half of Somogy's settlements, the number of inhabitants decreased by more than a tenth in 132 over a decade, the latest news reports say. The ominous future is gloomy, the demographic death of our ancient settlements reflects dark decades: ageing and rapid weight loss or ghettoism and hopeless sociocultural misery. The village where the school is abandoned does not have much hope for survival, for moving on. The devastating social and social consequences of school centralization are clear. I would like to talk about Nikla, the 700 enthusiastic small settlements in Somogy, and its now closed school, the village from which the viewing of the Rose Hill or Bel-Pest is 12 a dozen, but where between 1804 and 1836 there was nothing but one of our greatest poetry giants, Dániel Berzsenyi. Behind the settlement there are 683 years of written history, but it doesn't need to be a pessimist, it's enough to be realistic enough to see that if everything goes on like this, it doesn't have a tenth left. Thanks to a tender, the village school was renovated from 40 million HUF in 2006, but the reserve was very heavy on the town register. Therefore, in 2011 the operation in Bodrog was handed over to the Good of the Lord, the Baptist Congregation, who then performed a minor miracle in the ill-famous school of the settlement. In the near - close situation of bankruptcy, along with the introduction of Christian spirituality, there was good help along with excellent professional, pedagogical work. At the end of 2014, however, in an incomprehensible way to many people, the municipality took the school from the Baptists who had a very good relationship with the Catholics and handed it over to KLIK from the 2015/16 academic year, which, instead of continuing to maintain it, closed it immediately. The reasons include many tolerable elements. It is true that the majority of the graduations of the local kindergarten have not chosen the local school, and it is true that the school centre in Szépkovács is better equipped with specialization, but the final assessment of the local school's death must be more controversial for all people who are concerned about the fate of the countryside. Indeed, the chimney belonging to the school's boiler should have been renovated, the cost of which would have been 3 million forints, horribile dictu, some Louis Vuitton or Gucci Ridikul. Instead, the school was closed and half a hundred children were taken by bus to the central institution of the neighboring settlement. What a logical step it is to ensure the survival of the rural population, I would like to express my strong doubts: Klebelsberg has taken a school to the most miserable places, and KLIK is more of a center. Coming from the first oskola in Somogyban, Chokonai wrote: "Oh, the sad fate of a beautiful county! / Where the Hungarian souls lay / Scorned. / Oh, doesn't his heart hurt / All Hungarians, / That they don't want to think about the Hungarian sons? / But perhaps there will come / a time in which for us / our country / New Helikon will be. We are at the last minute of 24 hours on the issue of rural Hungary and, in close connection with Roma integration. Wake up! Otherwise, Somogy will not be a new Helikon, but he will eliminate himself as a sinking Atlantis, just like the rest of Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-346	In response to the next agenda, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, on behalf of Jobbik, spoke with the title "Multiculture of Memory." You have the floor.
u2015-10-19-347	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We know the importance of memory culture for society as a whole in order to preserve the memory of our history, our national values and our national heroes, so it is especially important for educators and future teachers to educate the future generation. [[23.00]] On this issue, we public figures have an outstanding responsibility, as is the case for each individual's mandate and position, so government politicians in a decision-making position, especially ministers and State Secretarys, must lead by example. They cannot afford to create unworthy and shameful situations by allowing their personal objections or even their feelings of inferiority. That is why I consider the procedure with which some ministers, let us say, should name: Zoltán Balog and his State Secretarys, have offended many good Hungarian people. Please allow me to quote János Kiss, former mayor of KDNP in Nagykőrös. In his open letter, from which I will now quote, it is about the fate of the memorial plaque of one of the founders of the University of Karoli, one of the 56 heroes of our faith, the pastor bishops, Dr. Loránt Hegedűs, the former father-in-law, who, along with this, was the reorganizer of the teaching staff of the University of Karoli, and also the honorary citizen of the city of Nagykőrös. This is what the quote says, and I can only read one part of it:, under the leadership of the Faculty of Teaching at the Károli Gáspár University of the Reformed University, we have decided for more than a year that on the 25th anniversary of the reorganization of the teaching in Nagykőrös, on 6 October 2015 a plaque will be erected for the Bishop who was an excellent warrior in the creation of the Hungarian Reformed education. After the donation of the inhabitants of Nagykőrös, we agreed on the details of the text to be placed on the plaque after much consideration and consultation, with the chosen persons who inaugurated the plaque and gave the speech to commemorate the inauguration. As well as continuing at the ceremony on 6 October, several State Secretarys, retired State Secretary, Head of Department, numerous officials of the World Federation and other organizations indicated their willingness to participate. The plaque was completed and replaced by the end of September 2015, but on 30 September, six days before the inauguration, there was a rude, impolite, disbarred message - supposedly from the EMMI - which told us that the text of the plaque should not contain the designation of the Bishop of Hungarians, and that the Latin quote "Hungariam esse salvandam" was the Latin quote. At the same time as the news, all State Secretarys canceled their performance in Nagykőrös on 6 October, so the inauguration of the board was, of course, cancelled and had to be removed. This raises the question of the lesson for college students who had to watch the board set up and then remove it before initiation, and who, as prospective teachers, will teach the future generation of memory culture. Furthermore, where did they get the courage, where did those pro-government actors who acted so shamefully? They violated the most fundamental feelings of mercy and roughly intervened in the autonomy of a higher education school. On this basis, we must say that the State Church Office of former pro-state times and the agents of Section III/III working closely with it continue to poison our ecclesiastical and secular public life. And finally I ask: the minute people who have committed this outrage, what have they put on the table of the nation, which would be worth even a thousand percent of the outstanding spiritual work that is the blessed legacy of the bishop of the Hungarians? Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-348	For the next part of the agenda, Mr President Novák, on behalf of Jobbik, has applied for a speech. Why does the government prohibit or tolerate volunteering at best? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-349	Dear Parliament, It was a big mistake on the part of Fidesz of Pökhend, that even after the ban on the Hungarian Guard, bringing together volunteers, the violation law was added absurdly to the wording of the forbidden prostitution by the fact that anyone who carries out activities in the public domain to maintain public security, public order, or creates such appearances, is committing an offence. The fact that the home of the national police commissioner had been looted is a sign that Károly Papp's time stopped, not even two weeks later. The police cannot carry out their duties, so voluntary organisation is necessary to carry out public security, public order, flood and other disaster prevention or border protection tasks. It is a mistake to maintain the dictatorship that the former constitute a state monopoly, but rather to channel the voluntary forces under official control and control. That's what he's gonna do when he gets on the Jobbik government. In the meantime, as a good example, Gábor Vona announced the year of volunteering in January, where our representatives spend one day a month on charity work. The members of the Jobbik faction typically volunteer in educational institutions and nursing homes, but some have been active in field and vigilantes, involved in forest cleaning. Balázs Ander, a history teacher, taught without a fee, even took part in graduation. László Lukács also addressed the reading of articles for visually impaired people in the framework of the -page-to-voice initiative. Zoltán Magyar cut wood for the elderly, and Mrs Loránt Hegedűs does regular community work in the Reformed parish of Szabadság tér. Last time we were together with the entire faction in Asotthalom to help with the rubble after migrants, this Sunday I went with the CÖF to pick up the trash in Hegyeshalom, through our Croatian border, for immigrants who have been released in the last few weeks. Yes, I was with the Civil Alliance Forum, because we are serious about national cooperation in this matter, that we need to reclaim our living space, we need to fix it. The CÖF first recruited to build a border fence, and after the government, as usual, gave them no opportunity to do any voluntary activity, neither did we, without better cleaning up after the migrants in cooperation with the municipality of Hegyeshalom, or we went a few meters to Austria, and the wind blows away from there. The Austrian police appreciated our help, even gave me rubber gloves when they saw that ours had worn out. In the meantime, Hungarian police are punishing those who, for example, carry out voluntary patrols. I was able to volunteer at the Bicske reception centre for a day of experience, but I also found that we had to stop migrants at the border, and if that is the only way to do so as a volunteer, I applied to the defence. However, the voluntary operational reserve system currently operates by serving a total of six months every three years, so it is typically necessary to retire for two months a year even if there is no crisis. Not many people can or would like to do this, but they would like to do a basic training on a voluntary basis, and if they really need it, they would. This is why Jobbik's proposed highly voluntary army, which could be the third level of defence after professional and reserve workers, would be good. As far as I know, the government is already considering our proposal, just as our proposal to lead the defence to the border was first condemned by Fidesz, but a few days later, with the help of Fidesz politicians, and soon together with Jobbik, the Parliament accepted it by now two thirds. As regards other areas of volunteering, Katalin Novák, State Secretary for Family and Youth, announced at the beginning of August the launch of onkentes.gov.hu, a government portal for volunteering and seeking. Jobbik considers this website, this portal, to be its own success after the publication of the Year of Volunteering in January this year, but I must point out that, as long as hundreds of millions of people are involved in government propaganda, billions per year, this initiative does not receive the necessary social attention, and therefore zero people have signed up for most of the volunteer work shown. Therefore, this government website alone can be considered as being born in ashes. The resources of government propaganda should therefore be devoted to voluntary work and other public social messages and advertisements. And we would like to see several Members of Parliament volunteer regularly to increase their social empathy and try hard, hard public work for those who think that 47,000 forints can make a living. Members of Parliament could learn, leaving the ivory tower, that Parliament is the only workplace in Hungary where alcohol can be consumed during work thanks to the rules of the Speaker of the House of László Kövér. The government should therefore finally find allies in the volunteers and promote volunteering instead of government propaganda. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[23.10]]
u2015-10-19-350	Ladies and gentlemen, On the last agenda, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, on behalf of the LMP, asked for a speech: 'We will get angry,' or we will get angry. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-19-351	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. And let me express my confidence that maybe it won't be the last one, I'll try one or two more in this cycle, if you'll allow me. I shall begin my speech after the agenda with some caution, as my fellow Member, Mr Luke, said that we are witnessing the government's health spree. Then, following the agenda, we saw that it was not only a health spree, but also an educational spree, a country spree, a national amok run, and a number of other amok runs that could in no way serve the country's interests. Please forgive me, but I wanted to bring in the problem of my narrower profession, nature protection, after the localization numbers of the continents affected by land privatisation were announced last week on the National Earth Fund website, and it was clear that the government claim that this would not affect natural values was not true, and it was even an obvious lie. The Natura 2000 sites, i.e. the so-called Natura 2000 sites designated under the European Union Habitats and Birds Directive, which were owned by the state as a plougher, were clearly designated for sale. These Natura 2000 sites are the areas with which we entered the European Union in 2004 with great pride that they live in Pannonia, the heritage that we will enrich the European Union and be part of the Union, and these are the areas that, linked to national protected areas, have entered the network of highly protected species as habitats for maintaining the EU level of protection. The sale of these areas is a major threat, since basically the species do not live in a single habitat, they cannot survive in a small protected area, and nearly half of the Natura 2000 network, which represents approximately 20 percent of the country, is fully covered by land previously declared protected in the domestic legal system. The rest is roughly the buffer area of this, part of the ecological corridors that are needed for the migration and settlement of species. These Natura 2000 sites are so protected that these are the ones that provide a uniform, say, support fund for Hungarian farmers, so that if they undertake conservation tasks, they can obtain additional grants. Similarly, farmers can receive not only Natura 2000 additional area payments, but also a number of elements of the agri-environmental management programme, which will be announced on 7 November this year and can join farmers in agricultural activities that encourage the maintenance of protected values built on these areas. The government has thus been designated as a lied EU protected area, which is a very, very serious problem in nature conservation itself, and raises very, very many concerns about maintaining protected values, but even more is the problem that all areas have been designated at all and is not only important for protected areas. You can see what has already been said here in Parliament today, that statistics clearly show that the government is on the wrong track. It is wrong, because the target group, small and medium-sized farmers, he said, is constantly falling so that we cannot say that Fidesz has not been able to stop the deterioration of this small-farming sector between 2000 and 2010, and has accelerated it and, in the first three years, has virtually accelerated the process in which farmers under five can stay at any level. This process is by which my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, mentioned the Calvary of the National Rural Strategy, talks about not merely implementing the plans, not simply stopping a negative process, but speeding up and stacking up the problems of this. So, just as we can talk about the running of amok in health care, in rural schools, in order to protect our national heritage, so unfortunately we are experiencing the same in rural cases affecting about 8 million of Hungary's citizens, and where the condition of protected values is deteriorating, we can always measure this destruction on the condition of the local community, the area that houses rural values. Together, the Hungarian natural heritage and Hungarian society will be destroyed, and the government would still have the opportunity to stop this, which I would like to ask you to do. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-19-352	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume the meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 23:16 p.m.]]
