u2015-03-19-0	Ladies and gentlemen, We'll start our work today. The 14th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Erzsébet Schmuck and József Attila Móring will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work today. The report presented by the Minister for National Policy without a portfolio on the activities and operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund for 2013 and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption, submitted by the Committee for National Inclusion, will follow. The report is B/802. and the proposal for a decision is H/3523. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Árpád János Potápi, Minister of State for National Policy of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the report. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-19-1	Good morning. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. On Sunday we celebrated the 167th anniversary of the 1848 Revolution and War of Independence. 1848 has made a difference not only in thinking about the nation but also in thinking about the economy. The most prominent representative of this shift was István Széchenyi, who already published his work in 1830, the Credit, wrote what to do if we want to put Hungary's economy on a new footing. It says, "Nothing can lift our motherland but our brains and hands." The Hungarian Government has worked in recent years to give all the support to those who want to thrive in their homeland, their homeland - whether in Hungary today or in regions of neighbouring countries inhabited by Hungarians - with their brains and hard work. 2010 has made a difference in thinking about the nation, as has 1848, but it has also made a difference in thinking about the economy. As a first measure, we gave Hungarian citizenship to our national brothers so that the Hungarian nation could become one again. Today, 710,000 Hungarians from abroad have submitted their request for simplified naturalization, and over 670 thousand have taken the oath of citizenship. We have created national economic policy, strengthened the country's economy, so that our entire nation can be stronger and confident. Along these lines, we shape national policy and its instrument, support policy, to serve the nation as a whole, forming a growing community in the 21st century. Hungarians of the century. In 2011, the re-established Hungarian Permanent Conference adopted the new National Policy Strategy. With the adoption of the document, the members' organisations of MÁÉRT agreed to implement the common, agreed practical implementation of the foundations laid down for the future of all Hungary. The National Policy Strategy Paper sets goals for the growth of Hungarian communities abroad, which is opened in four main areas: number, mental, economic and legal growth. One of the pillars of this strategy was the radical transformation of aid policy. The Bethlen Gábor Fund was established on the basis of a 2010 law to bring national political resources together and to operate a single support system. Among the objectives of the new aid policy is the need for long-term planning in support of Hungarians abroad. Accordingly, the focus was on supporting institutions rather than ad hoc support. It has become significant that resources need to be properly concentrated and resource use monitored continuously. We have sought to create a simpler and more transparent system. As a result, the regional decision-making or so-called alcuratorium system used in the past has been overwritten by the Bethlen Gábor Fund Act, stating that BGA's resources are controlled by a four-member committee and that the college has the power to prepare decisions. The members of the Committee in 2013 were the Minister without a portfolio responsible for national policy, the person appointed by the Minister for the Coordination of Government Activities, the person appointed by the Minister for Public Finance and the Deputy State Secretary in charge of the Minister for National Policy. This has now been amended, instead of the Deputy State Secretary for National Policy, the ministerial commissioner responsible for controlling cross-border investment has become a member of the committee. The Committee shall direct the operation of the Fund taking into account the principles of the Hungarian Permanent Conference. It is also due to the change of perspective that it has been formulated that resources for national policy must also increase. The Hungarian Government remains committed to continuously increasing this amount. In 2013, this amount was HUF 15.11 billion, of which HUF 11.5 billion was published in the budget in support of the Bethlen Gábor Fund. The Fund's revenues in 2013 together with other revenues totalled HUF 15.7 billion. In this context, I would like to point out that the government is spending 17.62 billion in this area this year. As far as spending is concerned, Bethlen Gábor Fund spent HUF 15.19 billion of the HUF 16 billion budget for funding purposes, HUF 810 million for Bethlen Gábor Fund Zrt. was used to operate it. The central and regional applications paid HUF 600 million. Of these, HUF 400 million was announced in the framework of a central, HUF 200 million regional call for proposals. The foreign Hungarians' vitality is shown that 1907 applications were received in the central call and 2027 applications in the regional call. In the course of the application, 250 541 children who attended Hungarian schools received educational and educational support, while 2731 students in higher education received student support. It is not the Bethlen Gábor Fund's fault that we were finally able to pay these subsidies in a reduced amount. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. Government resolution No. 500 million HUF was required to save the Bethlen Gábor Fund Committee in order to improve the balance. In the second quarter of the year, the measure could only be taken against appropriations not yet subject to commitment. Finally, the BGA Committee decided that all the aid schemes announced would remain, including education and training aid, but were paid in a reduced amount. The annual amount per person has been adjusted from HUF 22 400 to HUF 17 200. [[A statement from the opposition side: Shame!]] In 2013, the Bethlen Gábor Fund supported the Unlimited Programme with HUF 465.3 million, which aims to reach Hungarian-living areas of neighbouring countries at least once in the course of all Hungarian studies studying in public education. I believe that this programme will greatly help to strengthen relations in the Carpathian Basin. [[9.10]] I have already mentioned that the long-term approach has a crucial role to play in the new aid policy. The indicators of this are the institutions and programmes of national importance, which were designated by the Committee of the BGA on the basis of the guidelines of the Hungarian Permanent Conference. In 2013, 53 institutions of national importance supported a total of 5.75 billion and 118 national programmes out of HUF 189.1 million. With the priority annual thematic programmes of our State Secretaryship, we focused on strengthening Hungarian educational institutions from abroad. In 2012, our aim was to draw the attention of foreign Hungarians to the importance of the native language kindergarten education. In 2013 we tried to convince Hungarian parents abroad to choose a Hungarian language school for their children. The project was implemented with the support of the Bethlen Gábor Fund. However, the new national policy strategy not only marks the number and intellectual growth of foreign Hungarians as a comprehensive goal, but also the legal growth of foreign Hungarian communities. This is what Dr. Pál Szász's study scholarship is intended to promote, which was founded in 2012, in cooperation with the Bethlen Gábor Fund. The aim of the scholarship is to provide the communities with well-trained lawyers who are committed to the nation, who are familiar with both the Hungarian and the majority state languages, and who have gained experience in both countries. The Budapest Bar Association has undertaken to participate in the implementation of the professional part of the program and to carry out an evaluation of the professional tasks. The fund manager shall grant a scholarship to 25 persons per year for the 12 months of the relevant academic year. The recipient student's work and training will be assisted by a qualified practicing lawyer, tutor. As is apparent from the report, BGA provides a source for the operation of the House of Hungarians. The institution, in which the State Secretary for National Policy has been represented since July 2014, is intended to strengthen the positive Hungarian image, national cohesion. In 2013, BGA supported the Hungarian House project with HUF 939 million. In the framework of this exhibition, the exhibition was held on 22 October 2014, which aims to convey the elements defining our national identity, the historical, cultural and scientific values, primarily for children and young people. I am pleased to report that since the opening, the exhibition has had nearly 5,000 visitors, and what is a great achievement for us is that 50 percent of this is a student. In the light of the tasks carried out and the programmes implemented, it can be said that during the period under consideration, i.e. 2013, we made significant progress in achieving the national policy objectives. I would like to point out that the results are significant both in simplifying the complex support system and in increasing transparency. In this connection, I would like to say that the State Audit Office has found the operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund Manager coordinating the support of foreign Hungarians for the year under consideration. According to the report, farming was adequate, financially and accountingly balanced. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's debate, as has been done several times, is actually not only about the report of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, but also about Hungarian national policy in general, so let me also say a few words about the topicalities. I am sure that the history books will report rightly on the moment when Parliament made it possible to unite and unite the Hungarian nation on 26 May 2010. As a result of this amended citizenship law, as I indicated at the beginning of my speech, a total of 710 thousand Hungarians from abroad have applied for simplified localization and over 670 thousand have taken the oath of citizenship. It is a huge number, but I am happy to report that the requests for citizenship continue to arrive. After four years of forced recess, on 5 November 2010 we resumed the Hungarian Permanent Conference, so now once a year the entire Hungarian political group meets to discuss the issues that concern us together. It is encouraging that the organisation also adopted a unanimous closing statement at its last meeting on 20 November 2014. The Hungarian government paid another big debt when it formed the Hungarian Diaspora Council on 17 November 2011, which creates the independent representation of the Hungarian Diaspora. In this way, the Hungarians of the world can take the place in shaping national politics. The organisation welcomes in its closing statements the programmes launched by the government to preserve the identity of the diaspora. As an initiative of the State Secretariat for National Policy, the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme will be implemented for the third time in 2015 with the aim of reaching out to diaspora's Hungarians, strengthening national identity and helping and developing the organisation of the community and cultural life of the diaspora through the arrival of scholarships. On 20 December 2013, we launched our first call for proposals, which was the first major programme since the change of system specifically and exclusively as a diaspora initiative. Within the framework of the scholarship programme, young Hungarians visit the communities of the diaspora, where they help their everyday work by organizing Hungarian language lessons, teaching folk dances, organizing festive events and cultural events, establishing a Scout team, and other community building activities, and strengthening their attachment to Hungary. This year the target countries of the programme have expanded, including Denmark, Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain. We had nearly one billion forints to complete this year's programme, during which, just as last year, 100 scholarships will be sent. The success of the programme and a series of positive feedback have led us to apply the model to the sporadic Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin. On 15 March we announced the Petőfi Sándor programme, which covers the territory of the former Monarchy, including Romania, Ukraine, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Austria, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Poland. Within the framework of the application, 50 Hungarians will be sent. We have 350 million HUF to complete the program. The importance of the diaspora in the new Hungarian national policy is indicated by the Mikes Kelemen programme, which aims to provide for the Hungarian heritage and tangible heritage preserved in the diaspora. The State Secretary for National Policy, in cooperation with the National Széchényi Library, has undertaken to prevent the loss of Hungarian heritage through the program and to ensure its subsequent utilisation in an orderly manner. A hundred thousand books of material have been collected, half of which have been shipped home so far. This year, within the framework of the Mikes Kelemen program, we created a collection with the help of the House of Hungarians, which preserves and presents valuable Hungarian heritage by organizing them to survive for future generations. The centre will be responsible for the processing of diaspora collections of Hungarian cultural and scientific history in a database for research purposes, strengthening contact with people living in diaspora, presenting the history of Hungarian emigration, permanent and periodical exhibitions, scientific and educational presentations, conferences. [[9.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, we have put a lot of things on the table, which have confirmed the symbolic union of the Hungarian nation. However, we must continue this work. We must complete the established framework, and we must take real steps to ensure that Hungarians living outside our borders can live in their homeland, start a family, have children and raise them and provide them with a vision. This is unthinkable without the involvement of the instruments of economic policy. This is why we decided to dedicate 2015 to Hungarian vocational training abroad. As part of this, concepts and action plans for the development of vocational training in the regions will be drawn up in 2015-2020 with the help of coordinating partner organisations in all Hungarian regions abroad, involving representatives of educational institutions and the labour market. We support the implementation of the action plans drawn up along these concepts during our thematic year. In order to implement the concepts and related action plans, representatives of the Hungarian government's relevant wallets, the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office for National Policy, the Ministry of National Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Hungarian coordinating partner organisations from abroad conclude a cooperation agreement to develop foreign Hungarian vocational training. This has already happened in Transcarpathia, and the concept of Vojvodina was signed just yesterday in Magyarkanizsa. During the programme, we will support the development of workshops and economics, and a number of other programme elements will be implemented. With the help of the Hungarian government, we have established two vocational training institutions so far. On 26 September 2014, Annex II was amended as follows: In keeping Ferenc Rákóczi College, such an institution was opened in Beregszász, and on 3 October, Cluj-Napoca was opened by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. In addition, let me mention that the State Secretariat for National Policy will launch a twin city programme in the Carpathian Basin with a budget of 100 million in order to encourage networking between the settlements in the Carpathian Basin and to facilitate the deepening of existing relations. The programme will be implemented with a budget of 100 million, from which the municipalities concerned can apply for a maximum amount of HUF 2.5 million per event. Dear House, We have established the laws, set up the institutions that can implement the unity of the reunited Hungarian nation in practice. These were very important steps. The foundation of the building has been completed, and we have built a solid foundation. However, the construction must continue, and I ask for the support of the honourable Parliament. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-2	I now give the floor to Mr Károly Panczél, chairman of the Committee on National Inclusion, the author of the proposal for a resolution.
u2015-03-19-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Guests! The National Assembly is CLXXXII in 2010. by law, he established the Bethlen Gábor Fund as the successor of the Parent Land Fund with the aim of supporting the individual and community prosperity of Hungarians living outside the borders of Hungary and promoting the care of their relations with the mother country. The Bethlen Gábor Fund, operating as a separate state fund, helps to increase the material and intellectual growth of Hungarians across the border, preserve their language and culture. The Act states that the Minister responsible for national policy, in this case Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, will provide information to the Government by 31 May of each year, and on this basis the Government will submit to Parliament a presentation on the operation of the Fund. The 2013 report was completed by the deadline. I have to highlight this because it is March 2015 now. This report was completed by deadline in 2014, but as an election year it came to the House in late autumn, and on the basis of a proposal from the House Committee, the Parliament decided that this report did not stop at the National Assembly Committee, but that its debate would continue here in Parliament. That's the reason for this slip. Dear House, The National Assembly Committee, which was responsible for the tasks and powers of the Parliament, held a committee meeting on 25 February 2015 at the House of Hungarians in B/802. It discussed and supported its adoption. As the chairman of the committee, of course, it is also my duty to mention that opposition criticisms have been made in the Commission's debate, the main backbone of which was the issue and the amount of educational and educational support mentioned by the Secretary of State, since a government decision was taken in May 2013 to end the excessive deficit procedure, and therefore 500 million HUF has been blocked from this fund; this government resolution required a balance improvement. That is why this support was reduced from HUF 22 400 to HUF 17 200. It has also been said that the long-term impact of education-education grants should be examined, surveys should be carried out and various impact assessments, and the Unlimited! programme, which is a very successful programme, provided the opportunity in 2013 for about a quarter of the students of a full year to participate in the Unlimited! programme. Today, this number has doubled, and the amount of support has doubled. The goal is to expand it to a full year by the end of the cycle. It was also said whether the list of institutions of national importance could be extended. At the same time, we welcome the fact that BGA's budget has grown from HUF 11.5 billion to HUF 16 billion by the end of 2013, thanks to the extraordinary government measures, which include the Sapientia Transylvania Hungarian University or the Beregszász II. They are supported by Ferenc Rákóczi College and its infrastructure development. For Hungary, foreign Hungarians have value, which is why they spend energy and resources to keep the Hungarian communities from abroad. We believe that the Bethlen Gábor Fund has served this purpose properly. The Committee shall be composed of H/3523. The proposal for a decision adopting the report on the activities and functioning of the Bethlen Gábor Fund for 2013 was supported by 6 yes and 2 non-voting votes, and I will propose the adoption of this decision myself. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-4	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. Here, too, I give the floor to Károly Panczél, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-19-5	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for the floor. In 2010, the Parliament decided to establish the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which, as the successor to the Parent Land Fund, supports the individual and community prosperity of Hungarians living outside our borders in their homeland, promotes the care and development of relations with Hungary and strengthens the emergence of Hungarian national identity. The Bethlen Gábor Fund operates as a separate state fund, helping to promote the material and intellectual growth of Hungarians across borders, the preservation of their culture and language, and the multifaceted relationship with the mother country. The fund also provides cover for the operation of the House of Hungarians, which is the number one demonstration of the results of national political research. The Fund and the four-member committee shall carry out their work and activities in accordance with the principles of the MÁÉR and its committees. [[9.30]] In order to facilitate the work of the Bethlen Gábor Fund Committee, a nine-person college was set up, the members and the chairman of which will be elected by the Committee. In addition, the Bethlen Gábor Fund Manager is responsible for the implementation of the Fund's decisions such as the implementation of the Committee's decisions, the allocation of grants, the preparation of decisions, the implementation and the recovery of any unlawful aid. The fund manager is an exclusive state-owned company in the form of a non-profit company. The information on the operation and activities of the Bethlen Gábor Fund in 2013 was duly prepared by the Minister for National Policy, on the basis of which the government submitted a submission to the Parliament. In the 2013 Budget Act, both revenue and expenditure appropriations for the Fund amounted to HUF 11 billion and HUF 572.8 million. The budget for education and training was set at HUF 4 billion and HUF 820 million, as well as the funding of the Unlimited! programme worth more than HUF 465 million. At that time, the management of the programme was still covered by the BGA appropriation. We have to mention the support of the Hungarian House, which was HUF 216 million in the fund at the beginning of the budget year, while at the same time HUF 723 million was also received as an extraordinary government measure by the KIM during the year. This was meant to create a specific exhibition. I have to mention in particular at the House of Hungarians, that it is a multifunctional institution that has set the goal of presenting and raising awareness of the united Hungarian nation. The institution collects and processes knowledge about Hungarian communities, people and achievements in the world, and also acts as a knowledge centre. Its task is to present the values of Hungarians in a modern way. The exhibition of our nation's peculiarities, its unique values and traditions has since been established, as Mr. State Secretary mentioned in his expozee. The exhibition, Mi, Hungarians, started in the autumn of 2014, and has been visited with great success ever since. We should also mention the support of the institutions of national importance in the operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, to which the 2013 budget allocated HUF 3.8 billion, HUF 1.5 billion for other grants, including the funds allocated under the call for proposals, as well as the non-national organisations worth support. The fund manager's costs amounted to HUF 810 million, similar to the previous base year. That didn't reach seven percent back then. The legislation would allow 10 percent here, wouldn't it? Three main aspects affected the Fund's revenues in 2013 compared to the Budget Act. First of all, more than 3.8 billion forints were received from KIM's budget for supporting national policy activities. In all cases, the Ministry transferred funds to the Bethlen Gábor Fund by government decision. Nine such cases occurred that year; the funding of the Hungarian University of Transylvania Sapientia and the Christian University of Partium was worth nearly HUF 1.4 billion. The development of the infrastructure of the Ferenc Rákóczi College worth half a billion HUF, the construction of the first phase of the House of the Hungarian Bodrogközi Community worth 352 million HUF, and the funding of the programmes of the Hungarian National Council of Vojvodina worth 365 million HUF. Secondly, the BGA contract took over funds from the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, which received the 150 million tender, financed the smooth operation of the transition to digital broadcasting in the cross-border regions. The allocation of funds was carried out with the assistance of cross-border partners. After the successful programme, of course, the Fund cleared it to the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. Thirdly, HUF 40 million came from the framework for financing extraordinary government measures to the BGA. This source did not come through the KIM and was used to finance regional civilian centres across the border. The above-mentioned revenues therefore changed the revenue allocation, so the initial HUF 11.5 billion allocation changed to nearly HUF 16 billion. In terms of expenditure, a HUF 310 million remnant was used, thus increasing the amount of the annual budget above HUF 16 billion. As a spending saving, the fund could account for HUF 650 million, of which 95 percent, which was also mentioned by the Secretary of State, was the Government's decision on the measures necessary to eliminate the excessive deficit procedure published on 13 May 2013, in which the government required a balance improvement of HUF 500 million for the fund. Later, this government decision was withdrawn, but it was no longer possible to commit to this amount at the end of November. We should mention the positives of education and education support, with 250 000 people's support. In other areas, the call for Hungarian culture and education, for which 600 million HUF was available, and the Unlimited! programme, which was last managed at Bethlen Gábor Fund this year, and as I said earlier, was HUF 465.3 million, of which HUF 30 million was transferred to the Rákóczi Association, also for cross-border student travel purposes. The program was successfully completed, since in 2013 there were nearly 400 schools among the winning applicants, more than 17,000 students could travel and 2 thousand accompanying teachers. In the Unlimited! programme, I think we should mention that in 2010, the government reviewed school trips to neighbouring countries, exchange camps, the cooperation of sister schools, and, based on experience, launched the Unlimited! programme. The goal is for Hungarian society to feel the foreign Hungarians, and to be able to identify with them within the framework of a united nation. The most susceptible target group is the students themselves. Here it is primarily the 7th grade students who are focused on the Unlimited! program, and the positive experiences thus get from the student to the parent to the grandparents. Our aim is to ensure that all Hungarian young people, with the support of the Hungarian state, reach the Hungarian-inhabited areas of the neighbouring country at least once, live and understand national cohesion. Our task in the Unlimited! programme is to give a full year's student the opportunity to travel in this parliamentary term by the end of the term. Obviously, in the planning of the 2016 budget, the current amount needs to be increased for all of this. Dear House, The Bethlen Gábor Fund also carried out the successful thematic programme of the National Political Secretary of State, the year of Hungarian schoolchildren, for which HUF 100 million was available. This followed the year of Hungarian kindergartens abroad, and the program was a central motif of community building and, through this community building, of raising awareness that it was worthwhile for parents to send their children to Hungarian-language schools in the period after kindergarten. The program focused on community building between children, parents and educators to increase commitment to the Hungarian school election. [[9.40]] In 2013, there was also a tour of the Carpathian Basin, about 22 locations. The National Policy staff, the staff of the State Secretary, the programme staff have reached about 5,000 schoolchildren, as well as parents and educators. There were two major central training courses for educators, a methodological package for educators, and the program delivered this to all schools. There was also a series of competitions for young students, in which 51 schools received a miracle corner worth 100,000 forints, as a reward for participating in the competition. And what's important is, who often meets parents with small children? The pediatrician. A children's doctor meeting in the Carpathian Basin was also organized this year. Obviously, doctors can also influence families, parents, through personal conversation, that it is worthwhile to have their children enrolled in Hungarian-language schools in cross-border areas as well. Dear House, The Pál Szász scholarship competition is also successful, with the help of Hungarian students from abroad studying law in the majority language, serving the goals of the Hungarian community, can help the Hungarian community to thrive in their homeland after obtaining a diploma. The sum was 50 thousand HUF/person/month in 2013. Dear House, I believe that our national policy goals were properly served by the Bethlen Gábor Fund in 2013. I propose the adoption of the resolution proposal, the report. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-6	I now give the floor to László Kiss, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-03-19-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, First of all, I must say that Mr Potápi State Secretary is not in an easy position, because he is a government defender of a report that is not otherwise related to his activities as State Secretary. At the same time, I appreciate you talking about what your job is now, what kind of programs are going to start this year. I think we will be able to evaluate this at a debate on a report of later years. However, let me also share my sense of absence that it would be good for Minister Semyen to take part in this debate, given that then there would be no - I think it is a little unworthy - situation that I should address my criticisms to the Secretary of State, while, where appropriate, the criticism would not necessarily be based on the work of the Secretary of State. I also think it is important to point out at the outset that the Committee on National Inclusion examined not only this report - a little too late for my taste - but also the report by the State Audit Office on my proposal, for which I thank both the chairman of the committee and the members of the committee for making this possible. I believe that, in the same way, these two should be assessed together in the future, because it is important to see not only the report but also the opinion of the State Audit Office. I have to say that the MSZP has a slightly different assessment of the activities of the Bethlen Gábor Fund. We believe that there are many failures in the work of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which Fidesz has dreamed of supporting Hungarians across the border. Immediately the late registration of the fund and the exclusion of cross-border experts from decision-making and decision-making, followed by the political inability of the first board of directors of the fund, and the slip of calls for proposals and, consequently, the late payment of grants were already employed by national and cross-border public opinion at the moment of departure. In 2011-12, the extended payment of education and training grants in Hungarian and Hungary, and in 2013-14 the retention of some of the same grants gave the subject to the Hungarian press both at home and across borders. The tip of the iceberg is that according to the contract with OTP Bank, all applicants could only obtain and obtain this support through the bank. I would just like to note that at OTP Bank, government action was needed to include Hungarians in Szeklerland, Transylvania, among the bank's staff, and in many other cases there have been a signal from several opposition representatives that it would be welcome if OTP Bank's branches in Szeklerland, Transylvania were to be provided with at least Hungarian subtitles, if it were already a domestic bank. The OTP bank solution meant additional delays and difficulties for parents. In fact, it is incomprehensible to us why this contract can only be concluded with OTP Bank. The fact that this is a problem clearly shows that 80 percent of applicants have asked for support by post and only 20 percent have used the possibility of bank transfer - this is a good indication that this is indeed a serious problem. Further questions are raised by the kind of shelled bank support to a commercial bank that forces cross-border applicants to open accounts in this direction. We have said it on several occasions, and we continue to clearly object to political considerations in relation to the distribution of Hungarian subsidies from abroad. It seems that it is still not a priority to see what meaningful work and activity each applicant organisation is actually doing, how useful it is in terms of Hungarian survival. It can now be said from the perspective of four years that this is why the former entire board of directors of the fund has resigned as a body. It is still not acceptable that the Fund's main decision-making forum is a four-member committee, which entrusted only a nine-member college with the power to prepare decisions. The college of predominantly state apparatus professionals is competent only in the case of applications for open tenders, and in all other cases the committee decides. Only the expert resident in Hungary may be a member of the college competent for decision preparation. This is different from previous aid policy concepts, because it is therefore not possible for decision preparation to be a cross-border expert or a person involved in the work of MÁÉR to be part of the decision preparation. In practice, cross-border organisations with knowledge of situation and terrain have been excluded from expert work. In comparison, it is only worth mentioning that in the case of the Illyés Public Foundation, for example, nearly 300 cross-border experts have consulted the applications received earlier through the Alcuratorium Panel system in the seven neighbouring countries. In reply to a written question, Minister Zsolt Semjén wrote that the new concept of support policy does not exclude Hungarian organisations from the decision-making process from abroad, since the guidelines of the support policy are determined by the Hungarian Permanent Conference, where the entire Hungarian political group is represented. Unfortunately, we do not remember a MÁÉRT meeting where the annual discussion of the guidelines of the aid policy would have been an item on the agenda, although there would also be a need for it from Hungarian organisations from abroad, from the MSZP. At the same time, I think it is also important to note in relation to the MÁÉR that a number of criticisms have been received by MÁÉR, in particular its structure, in so far as MÁÉR's closing declarations, which are often agreed with a complete consensus, do not apply in the legislation everyday life. The question may arise of what is the point of seeking a full consensus and then practically not using that consensus afterwards. In terms of resources, too, it can be said that the government did not create anything significant. This is demonstrated by the fact that out of the total budget of the Fund, which is slightly over HUF 15 billion, a public tender was announced at the expense of HUF 600 million - from 15 billion to HUF 600 million. In practice, this will also continue to be fragmented into a 400 million centre and a 200 million regional tender framework. Compared to this, nearly HUF 8 billion was spent on individual grants, support for restricted applications, institutions and programmes of national importance. We still cannot accept that the report presents the Pál Szász scholarship programme, the year of the Hungarian schoolchildren abroad, as well as the support for education and education and textbooks and teaching equipment, as these are special forms of support, i.e. only available for a specific category of applications, cannot in any way be included in public tenders for the maintenance of Hungarian educational and cultural NGOs from abroad. Indeed, President Panczél has explained that there have been a lot of criticisms regarding education and training grants and textbook and educational equipment support. It is important to note here that this aid is the largest aid project of the BGA in both the number of applications - more than 250 thousand people - and in the grant envelope. [[9.50]] However, what we are constantly saying at committee meetings, there has still been no survey carried out, which, over the last 12 years, shows how much the support has contributed to the increase or at least the level of the number of students or students who have completed their study in the Hungarian language. We don't know that. In this committee meeting, we have exchanged ideas in many cases, and there really has not been too much debate about the need for such a survey and the need for a perspective on this issue. This time I'm gonna tell you we really need it. Zsolt Semjén's reply to my written question, which quantifys the number of applicants for the last 12 years and the amount paid, cannot be considered to be an analysis either, since it does not show at all how much support has contributed to increasing or at least maintaining the number of students or students who have completed their studies in Hungarian. It is important to address these questions and answers, as I have asked about 25 written questions in connection with the BGA report to the professional wallet, and I would also like to highlight those to which I have received an answer, it was such a question, and I would also like to address those questions today that I have not been answered, in case I can now. The payment of the aid also seems to be a major problem for this government. Following the entry into force of the Discount Act, the government reduced the per capita amount of education and education support from HUF 22 400 in 2013 and 2014 to HUF 17 200. The funding framework for education education and teaching equipment and textbook support has been open from above during the MSZP governments. This is important because we can see that all applicants have received the amount they requested, in the event that they met the conditions for applying, and it could not have happened that because of the lack of funds, someone had not received or had only received less. I think when I asked why the remaining HUF 5200 had not been paid for the applications, the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister that the Committee of the BGA finally decided not to pay the remaining amount, because the administrative and payment costs would not have been in proportion to the aid to be paid, well, this answer is a little cynical, and let's just say that it is not meaningful. I also asked in writing when the government would pay the remaining HUF 5200. The answer on the part of the government was that the status law does not fix the amount of this aid, so the issue in which the missing part of the aid is called for cannot be interpreted. The fact that the missing part is an interesting question, because indeed, the status law does not name this amount, but the call for proposals issued by the BG Fund Manager contains literally the following, I quote literally: I think it is not legal, and it is certainly not right for the BGA Committee to amend this call for proposals subsequently. Nor did I get the answer to my written question that the Government considered the central and regional calls for proposals for the BGA 2013 to be sufficiently prepared and effective. The report also highlights the ridiculously small financial framework for central and regional tenders announced in the framework of the public invitation to tender that the available framework was sufficient to support only 7.2 percent of the call for proposals received. It is only worth noting that the direct costs associated with the operation of BGA were HUF 45.4 million, HUF 34.4 million transaction fee, HUF 6.1 million account transfer fee and HUF 4.8 million foreign exchange transfer cost. These items also represent the annual budget of some civil society organisations operating across national borders. The Deputy Prime Minister also informed me that the fund manager does not have the possibility to reduce direct costs incurred by the fund and that payment is compulsory, but his reply does not show that BGA may have initiated a reduction on a fair basis. Why have no legislative amendments been initiated, for example, on the transaction fee? A few words are also worth mentioning in relation to the institutions of national importance, because it is important to note here that this system has indeed been established and it is very right that there are such institutions, but less so that the government has not taken into account the views of cross-border organisations and the proven support of organisations proposing in individual regions in elections. As is known, the programme launched by the MSZP government in 2007 enabled several ten institutions across the border, recommended by Hungarian organisations across the legitimate borders, to provide predictable funding on a normative basis for the long term. However, after Fidesz came to power in 2010, he stressed that he wanted to continue and support this programme, which was also useful to them, but the former institutions of national importance were not supported. In the case of Transylvania, for example, the DAHR proposed the support of more than 126 institutions on 10 topics, but only a very small amount of which we see in the list, only 3 of the nearly 30 sporadic colleges, and only 3 of the 31 Hungarian houses and cultural centres, the Hungarian Public Culture Association of Transylvania, research institutes, scholarships, internet portals and cultural and scientific journals. Theatres, puppet theatres, professional folk dance groups were included in the program of national importance, the content of which is unknown. In Transcarpathia, only the Beregszász College, which is maintained by the Hungarian State, receives support from higher education institutions. The most striking thing is that the current Hungarian government does not consider the Hungarian faculty of the National University of Ungvár to be an institution of national importance, as well as the Hungarian faculty of the Hungarian Center for Hungarology and the State University of Munkács, although the stated conditions, such as the survival, growth and dissemination of the Hungarian language, have been met for a long time, and their stable and predictable functioning is also unquestioned. Answer: According to former Deputy State Secretary Zsuzsanna Répás, a higher education institution maintained by the Ukrainian state cannot be an institution of Hungarian national importance. However, the Secretary of State has obviously forgotten that the Faculty of Teaching in Hungarian language of the University of Novi Sad maintained by the Serbian State in Vojvodina has become an institution of national importance and has received support not only for operation, program, but also for investment. However, the criticisms of the BGA could also be listed, which I will also do at a further stage of the debate. On this basis, I think it can be seen that a number of problems, a number of signals can be made in connection with the BGA report. The MSZP therefore does not support the adoption of the report. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-19-8	I now give the floor to László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-03-19-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's Fundamental Law states the fundamental principle of Hungarian national policy as follows in Article D of the Fundamental Rights:. Hungary is responsible for the fate of Hungarians living outside the borders, promotes the survival and development of their communities, supports their efforts to preserve their Hungarian heritage, promotes their cooperation with each other and with Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, This wording of the Fundamental Law differs considerably from that of the constitution before it, which used the wording that it felt responsible. I think that meant a qualitative constitutional change. This is the basis of constitutional and fundamental law for Hungarian and Hungarian national politics, and this has been implemented and implemented by the government since 2010. I think we can safely state and state that, after 2010, the Hungarian government has implemented a paradigm shift in the area of national policy. As a result of this paradigm shift, the institution of dual citizenship could have been created, and, through this, we can safely say that the Hungarian nation is reunited, the institution system of the MÁÉRT has been re-established, and I think that, as far as the whole system of national political institutions is concerned, if we cannot say that the institution's complete establishment has ended, but perhaps we can safely say that the completion and full establishment of the national political institutional system has started. The operation and activity of the Bethlen Gábor Fund and this fund, the fund manager, which was established by the government as the successor to the Parent Land Fund with the aim of supporting the individual and community prosperity of Hungarians living outside the borders of Hungary, promoting the care and development of their relations with Hungary and strengthening the emergence and preservation of Hungarian national identity. [[10.00]] Of course, while we are discussing BGA's 2013 accounts and discussing this proposal, we need to know whether it is positive or negative - some of my opposition fellow Members sometimes say this with a negative sign - that there are national political subsidies and other ministerial subsidies outside the Bethlen Gábor Fund. They also significantly expand the Hungarian state and government support for national policy, thereby broadening and strengthening the survival, prosperity of Hungarian national communities in their homeland, and not only the implementation and implementation of their individual rights, but also their collective, community rights. I would not like to repeat it now, although I have these figures, so I could repeat them, which several people have described in very detail before me in relation to the financial situation and financial management of the BGA, I would simply like to point out that in the report it is very clear that the Fund's revenues amounted to HUF 15.7 billion in 2013, and the expenditures amounted to HUF 15.3 billion, so the expenditure savings were HUF 664 million, 665.6 million more precisely. I would like to mention that the share of BGA spent on operation and operation compared to the budget is 5.2 percent, which, I think, is acceptable in any way and represents a very high rate of non-execution of the legal framework. The Secretary of State also indicated and the National Assembly Committee discussed the State Audit Office's report and its examination of the report. I think, therefore, it is safe to say in Parliament that, in its report, the Financial Audit Office of Parliament, the State Audit Office, considered the management, financial statements of BGA to be fully transparent and acceptable. So I think that I feel that over the part of the financial operation itself, the financial report, we obviously cannot and do not have to debate. Another issue is, of course, that we can and must debate over the implementation of different professional programmes and professional programmes. Let me mention very briefly some important professional programmes, and I think that this is in any case a significant part of our national policy support. Thus, education and training support, which represented more than HUF 4.4 billion in the year 2013. More people also talked about the Unlimited! program. I think that there has been a significant positive change in recent years, because, if I remember correctly, the Unlimited Programme has increased by about three times in 2015. It is not the last point that 17 thousand students could participate in these programmes in 2013 and more than 2 thousand teachers were present in these programmes. I think that this is a very, very positive change, and since then, thank God, it is constantly growing, and we hope that we will be able to achieve the goal set for all Hungarian primary school children to reach our Hungarian national communities across the border with state support during school years. I would also like to highlight the central and regional applications that took place in 2013 and, in particular, the calls for the Hungarian culture and education application, as already mentioned, in a HUF 400+200 million envelope. I would also like to underline and highlight individual grants and restricted applications. These have significantly increased the amount of money spent and spent on national policy. The Secretary of State highlighted the government objective that I think is extremely important - although I do not want to go into it, but obviously in the two-minute and the debate, there will be aspects of what nation policy has been and what kind of national policy subsidies have been in place during the eight years of the Socialist Government - that there has been a significant concentration in recent years, including 2013 in order to create the predictable and stable financing of the nation-politically highlighted and significant institutions. Of course, I agree that it would be very good if this could happen in an even larger envelope. We must, of course, strive for this in the coming period. It would be very good if this funding system could become much more stable. I think that this is a task for all of us, not only in front of the BGA as an implementing organisation, of course, but also for the government and Parliament, this is an objective and responsibility that must be achieved continuously. Thus, funding for institutions and programmes of national importance was used to support HUF 5.7 billion, and on the basis of individual grant applications, which were used to support educational institutions such as higher education institutions, to support sporadic education, colleges, residential public education and public education institutions, to support religious institutions, to support cultural programmes and events, to support legal protection, community building and minority protection activities, and to support, support, support and support civil initiatives and investment and development. I believe that this represents a significant change in the area of national policy support compared to previous government cycles in recent years. Let me mention some of these priority programmes, as I believe that this is a very, very important area for all of us, so support for the Hungarian National Council's scholarship programme in Vojvodina; support for the operation of the Szórvány Public Foundation in Vojvodina and the enlargement work of Emmaus College; support for the II. Ferenc Rákóczi The predictable and stable support of the Hungarian University of Transcarpathia - we know that the renovation has also taken place since then. It is extremely important to support the Protestant Theological Institute in Cluj, which, interestingly, did not happen at all during the socialist period. There has been a significant increase in support for the Sapientia Foundation, both for the Sapientia Hungarian University of Transylvania and for the Partium Christian University. I would also like to note that the functioning of the Partium Christian University was not supported by the Socialist-SZDSZ liberal government at all. I think there has been a significant change in quality here too. Or I could mention the support for the operating costs of the Pro Civis Civic Association in the Highlands, the support of the Fields Téka Szórányföldély in Transylvania, and I am delighted that the government, our government, was finally able to support the Bethlen Gábor College in Nagyenyed with HUF 75 million in 2013. I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Mr László Kiss, that I have tabled an amendment to support the Bethlen Gábor College in Nagyenyed in at least three budgets during the eight years of the socialists, but there has been no reception at all. [[10.10]] It would not have bothered me even if my amendment had not been accepted, but if the then government had actively supported the College of Bethlen Gábor in Nagyened, whether its operation or its operation - it obviously knows and knows the conditions that existed there in the Enyed College - its renovation, I could have accepted it as a red dot, or I could have rewarded it even in the field of the socialist government's activities. Support for the Csángó educational programme: it was also a priority individual support in 2013. Also, in the areas mentioned above - I would not repeat these areas - the support for programmes of restricted national importance, I think that they should be highlighted and underlined in any way. Finally, I would like to draw our attention to the House of Hungarians, whose programme strategy was formulated in the spirit of value saving, value creation and encounters, including in 2013 the construction, transformation, renovation of the House of Hungarians and the creation of an infrastructure background for this programme strategy in terms of funding. And I think that when we were able to see this house and this exhibition together at the committee meeting, we all appreciated the government's efforts in the field of running the House of Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, on the basis of the professional report presented, and on the basis of the relevant report of the State Audit Office, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the adoption of this report, encourages all factions to do so, and I ask that we continue to assist and support the predictable and stable functioning of the National Parliamentary Secretariat and the BGA, the Bethlen Gábor Fund. Thank you very much for your efforts and efforts so far at the Bethlen Gábor Fund. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. John Fuzik applauds.]]
u2015-03-19-10	I now give the floor to István Szávay, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-03-19-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Dear Guests! For the third time, we have the report on the operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which we are already discussing very late, about a year and a half from the previous one, so that the 2014 report is almost the current one. It is not good that we have suffered such delays again this year. Neither is it very good either, but we are used to the lack of a Minister without a portfolio of national politics for the Bethlen Gábor Fund - as is the case with almost every other case involving foreign Hungarians. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, you promised a radical change of national policy in the effective and successful representation of foreign Hungarian affairs, as well as in increasing the support, distribution and professionalisation of the divided parts of the nation. Although we feel some positive changes in relation to Zsuzsanna Répás's ignominious but deservedly past era, we do not have much expectations for the reasons we have so far. Of course, it seems a little less that we can hear the mantra of strategic partnership and good neighbourly relations, which already gives almost everyone outside their backs; however, ladies and gentlemen, from Transcarpathia, hundreds of Hungarians are still trying to take to a war that no Ukrainian nationality has anything to do with, and it is feared that due to the large number of people fleeing from the enlistings, the Hungarian settlements are virtually emptying out for summer seasonal work, while Ukrainians are constantly being replaced by the junta government of Kiev who hates their nationalities. In Transylvania, the Romanian authorities, the Hungarian Football Association, continue to pursue the Szekler flag and territorial autonomy with great forces, ban the Szekler Day of Freedom, eliminate the Hungarian-language pharmacy training, while communicating abroad that there is no Hungarian issue in Romania, there is no problem for the Hungarians. After Romania, you are also about to allow Serbia into the European Union without requiring the creation of at least one Serbian-type Hungarian autonomy in the southern part of Kosovo, perhaps missing an opportunity that will never come back. At the same time, Slovaks residing abroad were allowed to regain their citizenship by means of a legislative amendment, but this does not affect the Hungarian community in the Highlands at all, so that only a small number of members continue to apply for Hungarian citizenship. You, my fellow Members, Honourable Secretary of State, have been unable to answer this question for five years. In 2010, they promised to increase subsidies for national policy purposes, and at the same time they created the Bethlen Gábor Fund in order to ensure that increased subsidies reach a more transparent way where they can benefit most optimally from the preservation of foreign Hungarians. None of it worked. I have been saying for years - and now also in an interview by Zoltán Kántor, director of the National Research Institute - that the government has only spent 1 thousand of the state budget, every thousandth of the budget forints on one quarter of the nation, less, my fellow Members, than we Hungarians pay to the British under agricultural correction, and this little is distributed by the government, both within and outside the BGA, on a political basis and completely opaque basis. Let us begin with the transparency of subsidies for national policy purposes. According to the State Audit Office's report on the control of the implementation of the 2013 budget, these funds have now been distributed in six different budget chapters compared to the three in 2012. Obviously, there is also a reason for this, since it is difficult to check how much, and especially where, to whom the government gives. You regularly trick by using government regulations to transfer money to nice institutions or programmes. No misunderstanding, of course, it is not a matter of having more money than planned for national political aid or foreign Hungarian educational institutions, but of course that it goes perfectly against the high principles of uniform treatment of national political support within the BGA, which you have announced, and transparency. Among other things, the lack of a set of reports on the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme is the result of the lack of transparency resulting from the fragmentation of these funds, since it belongs directly to the State Secretariat for National Policy. We were happy about it - in our election programme we had already had an initiative of this kind in 2010, and we also supported it - but we do not understand why this was not integrated into the BGA then, nor do we understand why most of these scholarships are awarded to Bence Rétvári and to the Christian Democratic Association of Youth, which he led earlier, and the cadres linked to Fidelitas. Mr Potápi State Secretary, at a NBC meeting, pointed out my question earlier that this programme also includes the support of diaspora, but then there is even greater transparency, because there is only concrete data on the various benefits of scholarships. We have also proposed that in the future the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme and the currently launched - which seems to be an excellent initiative - Sándor Petőfi programme should also be added to the BGA and it should be transparent what these funds are going to do, since both are important and forward-looking initiatives, or would be. Like the system of national policy grants, the operation and tendering system of the Bethlen Gábor Fund are opaque and backwards. I have repeatedly indicated, and I will do so now: we find it scandalous that the assessment of the incoming applications is carried out exclusively by a committee of government officials, a college appointed on a political basis, without any professional considerations. This system, in its present form, is intended solely for the survival of Fidesz's outer moonyard, so that not only from the decision making, but also from the perspective of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, the members of the Hungarian Permanent Conference are hermetically excluded. Mr Potápi State Secretary has previously promised to involve the members of the MÁÉRT in the decision-making process, and I am rooting for him to succeed in bringing his intention through his government. However, I also hope that the members of the MÁÉRT include not only their foreign vassals, but also the Hungarian opposition parties for example. We also regret that 95 percent of the available, otherwise extremely scarce resources of the Bethlen Gábor Fund are allocated not to open applications, but to various other titles, without applying. For example, there is a direct HUF 6 billion, half of the BGA budget support to the institutions of national importance. Jobbik used to support and agree that there should be institutions in the Carpathian Basin, whose priority work for the preservation of local Hungarians is rewarded by the Hungarian state by providing them with normative support for their planned, safe operation. [[10.20]] But, of course, you have managed to turn this around completely, because they are almost exclusively willing to add their own potentates to the list of institutions of national importance. It does not have good relations with you, so it cannot be an institution of national importance, for example, one of the most patinatic and best academic high schools in Transcarpathia, Bethlen Gábor High School, and, according to the latest news, your allies in Transcarpathia are preparing to terminate and absorb the school; nor can the Hungarian faculty of the university already mentioned in Hungvár be of national importance. This is how national cohesion works, and this is how the national cooperation system works outside the country. Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén has been lying for two years about whether opposition parties are given the opportunity to make proposals - not to make decisions, to make proposals - and the right to draw up the list. This was publicly promised at the Hungarian Permanent Conference two years ago, and since then it has denied it dozens of times. That is what Hungary's Deputy Prime Minister's word is worth. Of course, it is understandable that the data clearly show the clear overweight of the institutions and organisations proposed by the foreign Hungarian parties close to the government. For example, ten organisations proposed by KMKSZ from Transcarpathia became of national importance, whereas only two are related to UMDSZ. In Transylvania, the six institutions nominated by the Hungarian National Council of Transylvania have two RMDSZs, which is rather strange in relation to the political weight of the two organisations, especially in the light of the fact that there are four institutions proposed by DADSZ and two EMNT among those who have been rejected; this is obviously not mentioned in the report. For a long time Jobbik has also called for an increase in education-education and textbook and teaching equipment support. We have calculated that this would be proportionate - since the amount of this has not increased since 2001 - to an increase in inflation of HUF 44,500 today, my fellow members of the Government. In our wildest nightmares, we did not think that in 2013 you would reduce the amount of this support to HUF 17 200 instead of the increase. It's a shame, and it's your shame. Yeah, and it's also a shame for those Hungarian organizations across the border who don't have a word on this issue, because they're intimidated and kept on a short leash. Only one Hungarian organization across the border did not raise its voice for the Hungarians they represented, and did not object to the fact that you beat down their bad economic policy on Hungarian families abroad. We do not understand that if a balance improvement had to be achieved at the BGA, then why would the Hungarian families from abroad have been sabotaged, for example, because they could have reduced the operating costs of an unrealisticly high, almost a billion-dollar BGA. Not to mention that the balance improvement for HUF 500 million was lifted by the government on 8 October, and it is clear from the recent report by the State Audit Office of Hungary on BGA spending that the Fund still had HUF 665 million on 31 December 2013. We find it outrageous why they have not paid at least a part of the missing aid from this money; by swearing to heaven and earth earlier, they have also promised in Parliament that this missing amount will be paid. It's 5200 forints. The abstract subsidies, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of a family with two children in Transcarpathia, will amount to a month's salary there. And you took this amount away from these Hungarian families. Shame on you! [[A congressman outside the meeting room's phone is picking up a call.]] But there are other problems, of course, with education-education grants, in addition to the outrageous reduction, beyond that: the beneficiaries received the money before last year and also last year, with considerable delay. This is certainly not mentioned in the report; neither is the fact that the subsidies land in East-Uplands or Southlands, but elsewhere in the pockets of the parents of the increasingly non-Hungarian and barely speaking, anti-social gypsy children, and the Hungarian children are being transferred to the Serbian and Slovak schools. For this reason, Jobbik has long advocated such an overview of education education support. Mr Potápi State Secretary has also promised this at a committee meeting, since then nothing has officially happened, and we know on the basis of a written question that the negotiations on the restructuring of the regime are still taking place, which means that the opposition parties are completely excluded, as is their custom. I can only hope that the government will not be ready to pass a proposal on this matter to Parliament, accusing anyone who has an objection or intention to change it of betraying the much-proclaimed national political consensus. In short, there is only one page of the report on the Unlimited! programme, not to mention that Deputy Prime Minister Semjén has repeatedly promised that by 2014 a full year of students will go abroad with state support. On the other hand, there is still enough money or money for only 11,400 people on excursions. The amount allocated to the programme should therefore be increased to a multiple, so that, as promised, all Hungarian children can at least once sense the great feeling of national cohesion in such a way. [[The phone's picking up a call again.]] There is a huge shortage of resources in open applications, with only 30% of the received two thousand applications being supported. The available 400 plus 200, or 600 million forints free of charge - I am pleased that we have been able to pick up the phone - by the way, only 5 percent of the Bethlen Gábor Fund's budget, and even here, only organisations that are dear to the government can win. As an example of a small region, let us illustrate the Dravan angle. HMDK is known to love you and you, and you won twenty applications immediately, while the Hungarian Association of Associations had only one winning competition and 15 were rejected. Such a degree of difference reveals a harsh political bias. Last but not least, I would like to draw attention to a painful shortage within these frameworks. The report does not deal at all with the 2013 work of the National Research Institute for National Policy established within the framework of the BGA. This institute, by the way, is doing something against Jenő Szász's money-sucking fake institution, the mangalica festival, the National Strategy Research Institute that organizes a Christmas celebration and a soccer cup. Adding that in 2013, he invited only those close to Fidesz to his events, thus excluding the possibility of substantive national political debates and practically drowning in complete indifference the professional programs he organised. These meetings should not be paid out of public money, but paid by the Fidesz Party Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, you promised a radical change in national policy in 2010, but you failed to increase or make the aid system transparent. In real terms, the volume of subsidies for foreign Hungarian communities has been decreasing for years, but since 2013, you have been punishing foreign Hungarian families for restrictions on their bad economic policies and taking away a quarter of the education education support. In addition, 99 percent of the painfully low subsidies are taken only by their foreign buddies, and most of them without a tender. You are using these funds without remorse to kill institutions, organisations and programmes that are critical to Fidesz or that do not please you, but are still of national political importance. Jobbik believes that we should radically increase the number of funds that can be applied for openly and that their allocation should be based on a professional basis rather than a political one, making it the only standard of activity for Hungarian survival abroad. With all the over-invoicing, all the money cuts, all the party support we're hiding, we're going to reveal. The Jobbik is only a few percent away from Fidesz. Get ready, because every penny will be accounted for at BGA and abroad, in Budapest and in Beregszász, in Bratislava! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-19-12	I now give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-03-19-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Even at the time of the establishment of the May Other Politics, it was clear, and we also expressed our solidarity with the Hungarians from abroad, we support the self-determination of national communities across borders, we consider Hungarian minority organisations as partners, and we consider their views important when preparing strategic decisions. Just as the governments of neighbouring states can be expected to guarantee the right to self-determination, we also require it from the Hungarian Government. This is why we cannot accept the report of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, because it is clear from the fact that Hungarians across the border are not partners for the Orbán government as well as those living within the borders. The report is a sad impression of how Fidesz-KDNP wants to dictate to them. You, Honourable Government, want to tell Hungarians across the border how to live, what to think about the world, how to organise their own lives and communities from Budapest. This is a misguided, conceptually impossible, because it is in the interest of the Hungarians to distribute favors and benefits inaccessiblely, arbitraryly, in a single narrow circle. Hungarians across the border are as diverse as the motherland; it seems that the Fidesz government can hardly accept this. Possibly Other Politics, on the other hand, offers real partnership to Hungarians across the border; they and only they can determine what is important to them, what is good for them, what they need help from Hungary. [[10.30]] A capable Hungary, which is not isolated and has international authority, not only gives and gives responses, but can take the initiative to promote the forms of self-determination of Hungarian ethnic minorities. Unfortunately, the conditions for this are currently very limited, but all indications are that real self-determination is a fundamentally foreign idea for the government. In Hungarians across the border, you see at most or most potential voters and votes. When developing a national strategy, it is the duty of the mother country to pay particular attention to the development and interests of the parts of the nation. The parts of the nation have the right to independence, to establish their own strategy and to follow it. The vision created by Hungarian political organisations across the border, such as national autonomy or co-national concepts, can only be achieved in parts of the current framework. The uniting European space, using it well, can facilitate closer cooperation between the communities of the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. At the time, the dominant groups of the Hungarian community across the border of the 90's thought that they could stand on their own feet after the support of the start-up. However, this was a plan that they would be able to operate and sustain themselves with the support of the local community. Unfortunately, it didn't. Minority Hungarian communities and regions have not been able to raise enough resources to set themselves on an independent and stable course of development. Support policy is therefore an essential tool to develop and build. In addition to national solidarity, Hungary is also interested in increased cultural and labour market support for Hungarians across borders. In order to achieve these goals, however, we must first face existing basic problems and deal with them with them with satisfaction. It is essential to streamline the system and increase its effectiveness. To this end, a register should be established to manage data on all budgetary resources extending beyond the borders in a uniform and transparent system. Feedback is equally important, and the system of monitoring results is also important. Long-term planning and correction of errors would require an efficiency check, as in any case, when we spend public money, we want to carry out a public task. One of the most important things to do is that cross-border opinions really have to appear in support. It is necessary to ensure that the MÁÉRT meetings and the committees have a real decision-making role. Dear House, The most damaging part of the current system is that it operates inaccessiblely and through personal contacts. The sources of the BGA are Zsolt Semjén and three other Fidesz politicians, based on unknown considerations. It comes from this unhealthy structure that it is not transparent: how much do we support the Hungarian minorities in the given budget year, according to what principles and disciplines? What unaccounted for, unrealised aid schemes will be collected at the institutions which have entered into each grant? How did the proportion of operating costs and the amounts spent in Hungary and returned to Hungary change with each domestic intermediary institution? What happened to the real estate purchased by cross-border organisations with support from the motherland? As long as these data remain vague, it is not possible to talk about a responsible aid policy. These weaknesses need to be clarified, and they need to be cleared as soon as possible. Dear House, The strategic starting points developed by LMP are designed to ensure that the support of Hungarian minorities across borders is transparent and harmonise with the real goals of Hungarian communities across borders. It is essential to support the Hungarian ethnic community-building activity, it is important to train those involved and promote their democratic socialisation. Preparing community and local government leaders and officials, experienced in the EU's tendering process, are needed. The LMP also calls for a change in policy principles. Supporting the school network promotes equal opportunities for cultural identity preservation. Appropriate selection and support of key institutions is needed. In addition, structural changes are needed. A significant part of the aid policy needs to be concentrated in a body with professional legitimacy. It is important to have a single register, accounting and a system of use for the aid paid. This is the origo of all responsible farming. We are sure that efficiency can be improved by appropriate monitoring. You can make a lot more out of the same amount of money. Great emphasis should also be placed on the establishment and operation of training centres. The launch of vocational training in Hungarian would provide a high level of training that can be used locally. The LMP considers the goal of supporting secondary schools and colleges as a priority, for example with the high school teacher scholarship programme, while strengthening the support of Hungarian vocational schools. We believe that these systemic changes can bring about the ideal state when we become partners in their efforts, tailored to the needs of Hungarians across the border. Our goal is to help them the way they want them to. We can only hope that it can become a reality during the governments of recent decades, but in its content it is a true guiding principle: prosperity in the homeland. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2015-03-19-14	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches. I am now giving the floor to Congressman László Kiss in the framework of the ordinary words.
u2015-03-19-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think there are some things left, and it is worth talking about. With regard to institutions of national importance, I would like to continue the line that was discussed. If we're done with Transcarpathia, let's continue here. It is worth noting, for example, that while the College of Beregszász received hundreds of millions of grants in 2013, for example, the Hungarian Faculty of the National University of Ungvár received 600 thousand HUF, the Hungarological Center received 450 thousand HUF in the framework of an open tender. So these figures, which we have talked about in relation to institutions of national importance, can be identified as such. Croatia was mentioned, as my fellow Member Savay noted. In 2011 minority self-government elections were organised in the case of county minority councils, 99:1 the Association of Hungarian Associations won this election against the Democratic Community of Croatian Hungarians. At both urban and district level, MESZ gives the majority of the Members, and in the last two parliamentary elections the Hungarian MP was elected in the colours of MESZ. Despite this, both Hungarian institutions of national importance in Croatia are bound by HMDK, and the Baranyai Júlia Folk College proposed by MESZ has fallen out of the previous list. This is important because I think that it is important to designate institutions of national importance in such a way that they do not otherwise cover the expectations of local communities, they do not cover the real intentions of local communities, it is definitely a mistake. Although we have actually been promised that opposition parties can propose this list, I could still live with the knowledge that, say, Jobbik, MSZP or Fidesz or any other party cannot propose this, but it is a much greater problem that we know that the communities living there cannot make any substantive proposals, or it is not up to them who is on this list and who is not. The report does not show the purpose of the two subsidiaries of BGA in Romania and Slovakia. The State Audit Office did not examine these two subsidiaries either, as confirmed by the Court's representative at the meeting of the National Assembly Committee. It is also unclear that the Romanian BGA Pro Transilvania Kft. In determining its activities, what is meant by publishing newspapers, publishing magazines, renting of own rented property, real estate management, market and public opinion polling. BGA Komárom Kft. in the case of trade and services, what is covered by intermediary activities, financial leasing, credit or lending, advertising and marketing services, film and video production services? Are these subsidiaries carrying out such activities during the reporting period or how is this compatible with the core activity of BGA when carried out? [[10.40]] There were also some contradictions to the BGA's tender checks and on-the-spot visits, and in response to my written question, both the report and Deputy Prime Minister Semyen, let us say, about these checks, when I was wondering how many on-the-spot checks were carried out - none of them were correct. So the Deputy Prime Minister said otherwise in his reply to my written question, the BGA report said otherwise, and I would note only in parentheses that the State Audit Office knows a third number. In fact, overall, I think that there is obviously a number that is true - maybe not one of the three - but that says a lot about three different numbers in three documents or answers to a particular question. The question was how many on-the-spot checks were carried out in relation to the operation of the BGA. However, it is worth noting from the State Audit Office's report that the representative of the State Audit Office mentioned at the meeting of the National Assembly Committee that, of course, the audit of the State Audit Office does not replace the audit of BGA's own natural operation, for example, the control of proposals should be entirely or entirely the task of BGA. It is not known why so few on-the-spot checks were carried out for the 1939 grant contract and for the relatively large number of real estate development and investments. Does the BGA have an on-site inspection plan? What kind of documents are you asking for? Can an account factory be avoided with these checks? This is very important because I obviously do not claim that anyone would like any fraud in the institutional system, but it is obvious that 54, 23 or 113 - because I don't know how much - control is not much. As a result, it can be said that, if appropriate, even with regard to all controls, checks which do not represent 10 per cent of all aid contracts cannot in any case be considered as much. As a result, I do not understand why Deputy Prime Minister Semyen informed me in writing that the successful proposals have properly accounted for aid for operating costs and that the amount has been spent on personal payments and their contributions. I believe that, on the basis of such checks, it cannot be said at all that everything has been done properly in all cases, and that we obviously have resources for other matters. I think that it would be desirable for the future, so for 2015 too, that these checks should be in order. If, by chance, I ask a similar question to the Deputy Prime Minister about this year, then he can say with a clear heart that yes, everything is all right, and no inspection has revealed any problems. Of course, I note only in parentheses: the fact that a significant proportion of the amounts have been spent on personal payments and their contributions means, obviously, that the Hungarian budget has enriched the contribution in neighbouring countries. But obviously, if that was necessary, then, of course, it was necessary to do so. I think that in this report it is indeed not possible not to mention that the BGA support system was also a significant tool for the divisive policy that Fidesz carried out in 2013 with regard to foreign organisations. I must say that this is an important moment for this support policy, which I must definitely criticise. Therefore, it can be said that a change in the era that was announced in 2010, at the most, was done in so far as, until before 2010, it was not typical that the aid policy was specifically intended for direct political purposes, but since 2010, this was clearly apparent, mainly, by 13th. It has been said many times and many have indicated that in the opinion of the applicants, the BGA tender system was characterised by a complex process and over-regulation. At committee meetings, this has been discussed in a number of cases, and several have promised to change this situation. So I also hope that when we discuss the 2015 report, we will certainly be able to talk about progress here. Many people criticize the Jenő Saxon research institute. In fact, I wouldn't want to enrich the debate with this right now, to involve this, but I would like to note that the Mangalica Festivals and Football Cup, otherwise not a transparent institution whose website has been operating for just a few months, let's say that the one billion forints it received for its operation certainly cannot spend it to the standard of the salvation of the national political institution system, as other institutions do. How are we supposed to do this right? I do not think, by the way, that everything about government national policy is despicable. The Secretary of State has also outlined valuable strategic directions in his expo, some or a significant part of which I think is absolutely eligible. The first important thing is that the kind of politics that divides the Hungarian community across the border, discriminates with individual organisations and exports Hungarian internal political conflicts should be changed. Changing aid policy would be an important element of this. We need a consensus within our borders, or even beyond our borders, in which we agree on what kind of political culture we are creating, in which we give respect to each other, and not regard as an enemy to be destroyed, the organisations that we differ from, we have different opinions. I note that this would be a good thing if it were within our borders, but it would be okay if we were to behave this way beyond our borders with foreign organizations. It would also be necessary to agree that all Hungarian political forces respect the sovereignty of the organizations of Hungarians across borders, do not interfere with the formation of their powers, but at the same time support their autonomy efforts and help them to thrive as Hungarians in their homeland. I think it's a fundamental principle that must be fixed. It is clear that the development of economic relations should be organised with the numerous formal and informal instruments and uses of the partnership institution. Hungarian development policy should have a strong position on the economic space in the Carpathian Basin and measures to strengthen it. The President of the Hungarian Socialist Party has made such a proposal at several meetings of the Hungarian Permanent Conference and in the form of a parliamentary resolution proposal, but unfortunately the majority of the government did not put it on the agenda. It is important that they did not put it on the agenda because they refused to argue about it. Clearly, it is an important and priority area to support education and culture. So far, aid policy practices need to be changed here. Completely natural programmes must be developed. It is particularly important to strengthen secondary and higher education, as well as to set up and operate sporadic centres and colleges, and to launch sporadic teaching and pastoral scholarships. The responsible national policy, which is in the interests of Hungarians across borders, must also devote resources to launching a scholarship programme, supporting PhD training, and running libraries and documentation centres. We consider it very important that, in the case of aid policy, resources should be allocated with the involvement of national and cross-border experts. A 20-year-old development programme in the Carpathian Basin should be proposed, as the MSZP has said for a long time. This programme would examine the most optimal conditions for the survival of the Hungarian community at the level of individual cross-border regions, whether regional units or settlements, while at the same time proposing improvements taking into account the resources of the region and the local community. The Plenary Session of MÁÉR would put the development programme in the Carpathian Basin on the agenda. Members of MÁÉR, if they agree that this programme is good or amended, would consider this programme mandatory from now on, whose tasks are reviewed annually and amended unanimously to ensure the continuity of the aid policy. This is a very important story because, on the one hand, the involvement of the actors of MÁÉRT would take place in their strategic support policy and, on the other hand, the MÁÉRT itself would have a serious control function in how and how strategic developments concerning them should be implemented. I think that there is no person in this House who thinks otherwise that we want the issue of Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin to take a positive turn. The MSZP also supports the fact that in any case Hungarians will find the prosperity they deserve in their homeland as well. [[10.50]] Compared to this, it is alarming that, according to some forecasts, the number of Hungarians is expected to decrease by around 10 percent by 2020, and in the regions beyond the border, this decline is much more intense, it can reach up to 30 percent; not to mention when cataclysms occur, such as in the case of Ukraine and Transcarpathia across the border, where it can be expected that the entire Transcarpathian Hungarians will also be put at risk. Unfortunately, research also shows that Hungary is no longer an attractive country of residence for Hungarians opting for emigration due to the worsening economic situation, and more and more so for domestic Hungarians here, London, Berlin or the western half of Europe are elected by immigrants from the homeland. For this reason, we consider it important to change economic and demographic trends significantly both in Hungary and in the region. A common national policy strategy is absolutely essential for this. The MSZP has been and is also a partner in thinking about this type of national policy together, and I would also like to say that we are in any case in favour of any forums of mutual reflection. However, I am afraid that because of what has been said, we cannot support the BGA. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-19-16	To further comment, I give the floor to Member István Szávay.
u2015-03-19-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't want to comment specifically, but I must say that you were so unfair, and you didn't have the slightest elegance when you didn't agree to discuss this report in a normal, worthy lecturer's time frame. The government had half an hour, a half an hour of the pro-government speaker of the National Assembly Committee, and 15 minutes of keynote speech, but in all this time it was simply not possible to fully review this topic. I myself, in my speech to the lead speaker, could not go any further or deeper into the programmes within the BGA, and I am obliged to do so now. First of all, let me say that, on the one hand, my fellow Member, László Kiss, asked me how national policy should be done well. However, I would like to encourage the Socialist Party to be a little more modest in this regard, adding that it is undoubtedly a major development that we have managed to get from the fear of 23 million Romanians to the fact that they are now making substantive and forward-looking proposals for national policy. But all of this would be even more credible if, for example, figures such as László Kovács MSZMP KB were now permanently retired, but while László Kovács is the head of your foreign affairs cabinet, there are still credibility problems with national political honesty. But go ahead, I wish you good luck on this trip. I've already mentioned the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor program. Mr Secretary of State, I continue to expect the answer from you for the rest of the time, what it means in the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme is that the diaspora organisations and their diverse activities are supported by the government. What does this mean, what organisations, why, in what form, how, why not openly, why not transparently, why are they doing this in or through a program? Bethlen Gábor Fund's website: I told you several times, they promised to change this, but it didn't happen. Of course, after a lot of searching, you can find everything on the website, but it is ridiculous that 99 Commission decisions of 2013 can be found hidden on the current list of institutions of national importance, because it is not highlighted by chance that we are talking about a programme of HUF 6 billion. We'll give you a little more details on the education support, let me get back to you on that. One in five Transylvanians, and only 3 percent of the applicants from the Highlands applied for student support, the student support, which is quite simply humiliatingly low, has a sum of HUF 2400. Secretary of State, either cancel this, because it is really unnecessary in this form, or it should be raised normally and fairly so that at least one of these textbooks can be bought by a Hungarian university student across the border, because this money is no longer available. Paul Szász Scholarship Program. We consider this to be a very good initiative, which we have already said on several occasions. It's very necessary. At the same time, the lack of resources can also be seen in action here, let us also talk about this. Last year there were 59 applications, but only less than half of them were supported due to the scarcity of the available budget, and obviously our position - I think there will be no discussion between us - is that due to the large number of anti-Hungarian actions in the Carpathian Basin or the increase of the actions there is a great need for well-prepared foreign Hungarian lawyers and their further training and support. I'd like to go back to the BGA budget for one more sentence. There's a lot of chaos here, though, how much money is actually going to get for national politics right now. As we calculate, unfortunately, we still cannot find more money in the budget, not in real terms than - and it is very painful to say - it has reached national policy during the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments. In 2013 it was HUF 11.5 billion, and in 2014 it was HUF 11.1 billion reduced by HUF 400 million. Deputy Prime Minister Semjén at the Free University of Idolos said that the budget will amount to HUF 21 billion in support of foreign organizations and programmes. That is simply not true, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, there is no HUF 21 billion in the budget for national policy. I'd love to have one, but I don't. Education-education grants. Let's jump on this a little bit more, Mr. Secretary. Let's jump on this a little bit more, because it affects a lot of people. For example, this is an area - I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member of Szászfalvi - where we have managed to subdue socialist governments, in this aid policy section, in any case. It is true what my fellow Member Kiss said, it was an open fund from above, even two years ago, adding that it was already underdesigned, it was HUF 4.8 billion two or three years ago. Even then, we drew attention - we also tabled a budget amendment - to the fact that this money would not be enough, and you did not accept it. Later, at least, at that time, it was so much luck that, with a separate government decision, nearly HUF 800 million was replaced in 2002, and, in fact, all Hungarian families across the border, the parents of all Hungarian children attending Hungarian schools, had received this support - let me draw attention to it again - since 2001, which you have not only increased it, but reduced it by a quarter. I would add that it was not indicated in the calls for proposals in 2013 and 2014 that this amount would decrease, and it continued to be written from HUF 22 400, in fact deceiving the applicants. We have repeatedly complained about what we have heard here, that you have obliged Hungarian parents across the border to open a bank account in the OTP, the Hungarian bank, thereby providing a fairly large deal to the OTP, which otherwise does not appreciate Hungarians from across the border so much that in many cases it is able to write it out in Hungarian that Gábor Bethlen is a fund-paying place. Well, we managed to put this in Slovak, and we managed to put it in Romanian in the OTP branches across the border. It's a shame. It's a shame. I am speaking to my fellow Member Kiss, who talked about the fact that there are no Hungarian subtitles in the Szeklerland in the OTP; this is not a problem in Szeklerland, it is missing in one or two places, but it is not in Transcarpathia, for example. In the main square of Beregszász, in the main square of a town with 50 percent Hungarianness, there is not a single Hungarian inscription. OTP doesn't think it's important, nor does MOL or CBA. Hungarian patriots are already advertising boycotts in the Highlands, because they refuse to use Hungarian subtitles. Hungarian subtitles are missing in many places. However, Hungarian employees are also missing, because companies, Hungarian state-owned or partly Hungarian state-owned companies, often identified by Hungarians across the border with Hungary, and this is an obvious market advantage for them, well, these companies do not feel, for example, that it is important that the condition of working is linked to the knowledge of the Hungarian language. [[11.00]] I am not saying that only Hungarians can be admitted, but that they should be linked to the knowledge of the Hungarian language. I do not know about this with any EU legislation, as it would not be possible to get involved. But it is not important for these companies, including the OTP, to hire Hungarian people, to give Hungarian families a job, a livelihood, and thus to help Hungarians stay in Hungary and stay in the separated areas. Unique requests: Now, this is another beautiful area, let's talk about this for a few more minutes! In 2012 244 applications were supported with HUF 5.5 billion, and in 2013 this amount was reduced to only 2 billion and 144 applications, adding what is the point of this individual application. On the one hand, it is possible to push ten or ten million forints across borders at any time, without any particular decision, control or transparency. But this framework is also suitable, isn't it, if someone, I mean some buddy of yours, is obviously, let's say, missubmitting his application in an open tender round, or if he doesn't feel like writing it, but he has a good relationship, then he can throw together a unique request in half an hour, for which he can receive support without further ado, as well as decent organizations from abroad, or even more. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] What else is missing from the report? Well, there's a lot missing. Speaking of the scholarship of the Hungarian National Council, this inspired me, because in this connection I thought of two things that could have been written in the report. For example, there is a serious suspicion that both higher education scholarships and education and education support are involved in some aspects of the southern region about the party bonding of the system. In 2013, the Hungarian Association of Vojvodina, the basic organization of your strategic partner, had the local Hungarians fill out a questionnaire that suggested that only those who are VMSZ sympathizers can receive educational support. Of course, we certainly do not read about this in the report, just as we do not read in the report about the outdated VMSZ correspondence. Here the various VMSZ officials are writing to each other, and one of them is outraged by the fact that the son of X. Y. VMSZ leader did not receive a scholarship, and why another was known to be a sympathizer of the Hungarian Hope Movement. Now, none of these cases have been investigated at Bethlen Gábor Fund. It's waiting for us, and we're going to do it, of course. I would also have liked to have read about whether there will be a youth policy framework within the Bethlen Gábor Fund, where youth organisations will be able to apply for it. This was promised several times to Hungarian youth organizations across the border in recent years, promised to the Hungarian Youth Conference, both Zsuzsanna Répás and Miklós Soltész and László Kövér made such promises. In fact, the Hungarian Youth Conference, which is the coordinating forum of Hungarian and foreign Hungarian youth umbrella organisations, included this request in its final declaration, but has not been complied with since. I would have liked to have read some lines at Corvinus Zrt. It is also about the investigation and progress of his questionable affairs, but it seems that the government has put this issue on ice, which seems to have been a cross-border scandal, both in cycles and probably in parties. Exploring this case will also be waiting for Jobbik. I can promise you that we will take care of this in addition to many other matters. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-19-18	Thank you, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi, the Christian Democratic People's Party for two minutes.
u2015-03-19-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to reflect on the thoughts of my fellow Member, Mr László Kiss. Thank God, my dear fellow Member, we had such fantastic ancestors who were extremely stable in designing and building this house, so it did not collapse when it came to saying that there was no political dimension to national political support before 2010. Quite simply, my fellow Member, this is such a lie, a slip that we should have laughed loudly here together, together, when the Member said this sentence. I could give you the specific facts, but I could tell you these things by nightfall. [[István Szávay intervenes.]] Congressman Savay, I have listened with great patience and silence, please listen to me as well. You, my dear Member, under the leadership of the Socialist Party, have abolished MÁÉRT in the last eight years. Then on what moral grounds do you begin to talk about the matters of MÁÉRT these years? I do not want to bring here the unworthy and shameful socialist campaign before 5 December 2004. I am pleased that László Kiss is a young person and we see that we have a positive representative sitting among us, and I think that we can also cooperate constructively in the Committee on National Inclusion. But before you say that, please analyse your own party politics, your party political history and the national policy that practically didn't exist as a national policy when you governed the country. And let me tell you one more thing. I will probably not be able to detail it long enough, but in 2003 the Socialists started their national policy with the person of State Secretary Vilmos Szabó by handing over the project of 320 million forints and grant contracts awarded by the Reformed Church District of Királyházmellék in the Széchenyi Plan to a DAHR. Then what are we talking about? Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-19-20	Thank you very much. Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. For two minutes, Mr. Winner of Vinnai, Fidesz.
u2015-03-19-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Regarding the report, my fellow Member Savay said that he did not know exactly what the amount was, 21 billion, 11 billion or 12.1 billion. I'd like to tell you that, apart from BGA, six ministries have funding funds, including EMMI, FM, Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs. But that's not what I want to talk about. I would like to highlight a positive example: Ferenc Rákóczi College, which operates in Beregszász, received HUF 800 million for its operation and for the renovation of the wonderful building in the heart of Beregszász, which actually gives strength and faith to the national policy that helps Hungarians - especially the Transcarpathian Hungarians, which are in a very difficult situation, we know the reasons - to remain there in the homeland. And it is a very successful college, which I can say as a representative of Nyíregyháza, the Nyíregyháza College, the city itself as a sister town and the county helped, but also other municipalities, including Esztergom or Győr. We know that there are different halls in the college, and the only non-State institution of higher education in Hungarian. I suppose we also know, Congressman Savay, that intellectual training, the survival of someone in their homeland, is very important. This gives Hungarians the right degree to work in the labour market. I would like to say once again that the ruined building in the heart of Beregszasz was renewed with the support of the Hungarian government, the Bethlen Gábor Fund, and this meant nearly HUF 1 billion. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-19-22	Thank you, Congressman Vinnai. The next speaker is Mr László Kiss, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-03-19-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not want to reopen this debate; my fellow Member, Mr Szászfalvi, was indeed right about a lot of things that he said in his previous statement. However, I think you should allow me to do so by allowing the Hungarian Socialist Party to change its policy in a number of cases after 2010. If we look at the statements of former party president Attila Mesterházy or current party president József Tóbias, it is certainly possible to say that in the practice of the last five years, it is certainly not what my fellow Member from Szászfalvi spoke about. I, myself, represent the MSZP in the Committee on National Inclusion, describe the policy of the MSZP, as said by my fellow Member, and thank you very much for your words that are otherwise worthy of me, but they also belong to the MSZP, because obviously we are implementing the policy of the MSZP ourselves. [[11.10]] There was indeed a need for this turn of national policy, and it is still necessary, but I would warn the government or the government of national policy that if it identifies errors with regard to the Hungarian Socialist Party or the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, it should make the same mistakes or maintain the same mistakes or make them worse. If the association of the current governing parties considers that a party support policy could be identified before 2010, the answer to that question is in no way that another party support policy should be run, or even a much worse one should be operated, but the answer is that a good one should be operated. If we hadn't identified these errors now, too, if the current government had reacted to the problem it considered to have developed an unbreakable, good policy of support, I would certainly not have spoken out myself about the maladministration that might be mentioned in this regard. I'm also saying this here, and let's say it in the committees, because it's in our mutual interest that it doesn't work that way. Believe me, it's in your best interest not to make this work. I think - on the basis of the Commission's experience, by the way - that many of us agree that there is indeed room for improvement here. With regard to what Mr Vinnai said: obviously, no one is talking about the support that, for example, is aimed at the college in Beregszas, that would be a waste of money, that would be useless support. Obviously, this is for the benefit of the communities. At the same time, let me quote again - I apologize - myself. I said that in 2013 it is worth noting that while the college in Beregszász received hundreds of millions of dollars in funding, the Hungarian faculty of the National University of Ungvár received HUF 600 thousand, the Hungarological Center received HUF 450 thousand, and I noted this in connection with the fact that local communities were not able to comment on this in relation to institutions of national significance. So what we are talking about here is that local organisations have not agreed to, for example, the scope of institutions of national importance in Transcarpathia. I understand that it is good for your constituency, for example, that this has been the case, but let me say that the interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians in this case may also be an important issue. Finally, let me answer some of the directions that we are really going to have in this debate. With regard to education and training support, I took it as a positive step forward when Minister Potápi said in several places that this system needs to be changed and promised a broad consultation to change this. The MSZP, as before, is very constructive in this matter: we are willing to support and support the establishment of it with a broad consensus. If and if this is the case, we would certainly support the change in our proposals. We would be all the more supportive, because this would assume that what we do not have now is a concept of education and education grants that is based at least on some mechanism of action, so we know where we want to get from. We have been critical of the fact that we do not know where the former system has come from. We would like to have a new system set up, which, if it is good, we would even support, in which case we could at least see in advance where we want to go. The MSZP and I have also initiated in my budget proposals and before that the foreigners receive the resources which they did not receive in 2013 but last year, and I have also initiated to increase the resources of this year's budget against the limitless! programme, precisely for the purposes that my fellow members of the Party of Government and Mr Potápi State Secretary, but also my fellow Member of Szászfalvi, have said here. I myself support the operation of this programme, and I would also like the government to co-ordinate the resources that would ensure that it functions properly. For the record, this was not supported by the majority of the government. Similarly, I know that my fellow Member of Szászfalvi will not accept this as an apology, but if he remembers, I myself tabled an amendment to support the Protestant pastoral training from this year's budget, which was also not supported by the majority, recognising that, of course, it is an important goal to support the residence through pastoral training. Finally, I cannot go without saying a word to the Szász research institute, because many written questions, more immediate questions and Commission discussions do not reveal to us exactly what this research institute is doing, although it is a real step forward that it already has a website for this institution. But it is worth noting that when it came to what this institution is doing, Mr Jenő Szász first said that there is no need for a website for this institution because, by its very nature, the research results of the institution are spread through oral tradition. In terms of the truth contention of this statement, let's just say that I have no evidence, given that the first results of the institution's operation have not been obtained by oral tradition, but I may be in a minority in this country with that statement. If that is the case, and the others have been passed through oral tradition, then I apologize to Mr. Jenő Szász. However, there may have been a change, since after the Commission's and Parliament's criticisms, there has already been a website where some progress has been made in this matter, but it is clear to everyone that a billion forints will be provided for the operation of this research institute, so to speak, is a baroque exaggeration. I think it would be desirable for the institutional system to have a kind of transparency. Finally, indeed, when we talk about the fact that there are six items in the budget of national political resources, we can say how good it is to have six places to pour money into this story. I would just like to note in parentheses that it is possible to get little money from six places, but in fact - and my colleague Savay's criticism, if I understand correctly, was aimed at this - this is seriously reducing the chances of this institutional system being transparent. In fact, my colleague from Vinnai noted as an advantage how much money there is; on the other hand, on the other hand, we found that it was rather a disadvantage, since transparency is significantly reduced, not to mention that there is a relatively mature national political institutional system. Mr Secretary of State is one of the key figures of this, here he is, and the other key figure, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, unfortunately does not participate in this debate. So it can be said that the political institutional system has given it, and here it is a little incomprehensible to me why these six places are, why this story does not work more transparently. As far as whispering of bad languages is concerned, even further institutional systems are being added to this circle, we think of Katalin Szili's future mandate to support autonomy efforts across the border. I think that it would be more desirable if this kind of support policy were more transparent in the sense that it would be more transparent about who pays what for what. In that sense, let me interpret it and apologise, Mr Szávay, because I think I understood what you said: Mr President did not wish to mention that we could not read the fifteen whole billions of BGA reports, which are working on the BGA, but if it is to be added from six places, seven places or three places - just when it is how much - it is not always possible to follow how much money there is in the system of national political institutions. But it's possible that there's a problem with our mathematical knowledge, and it's actually right to pick it up from so many places. I don't think so myself. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-19-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute comment is Mr Károly Panczél, Member Fidesz.
u2015-03-19-25	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to respond very briefly to László Kiss's speech in the keynote round, where he mentioned that the Committee, on his proposal, also included the discussion of the SAO report. I also think that this is not where it belongs, because this is part of the accounts, that is where the committee should be attached and the details of the SAO report on the operation of the BGA should be discussed. [[11.20]] At the same time, I must mention that we have been informed of it, and it is important to say in every way that according to the SAO the management was regular, that the BGA was properly managed with public funds, that it examined the transparency of public finances, and that everything was regular in 2013 - because this year was the operation of the SAO. Congressman Szászfalvi touched on the fact that the MSZP governance in Hungary has been a low point in national policy for eight years. In fact, László Kiss praised our fellow Member, our colleague from the Commission, and I can say that we sincerely accept the Member's interest and commitment to national policy, but at the same time we must note that, for example, when Mr Szávay, in his speech, brought up the threat to 23 million Romanians from the 2004 campaign of lies as a fact, Lajos Korózs, sitting before you, noted that it is cheap to bring this up. Says Lajos Korózs, who then threatened pensioners with the lie that they would lose pensions while we had an agreement with Romania. [[Lajos Korózs: Tens of thousands came for a Hungarian pension!]] that the Romanian State provides pensions. [[Lajos Korózs: Tens of thousands came for a Hungarian pension! Tens of thousands! A statement from the Fidesz: Shame on you! Lajos Korózs: Moreover, they are not Hungarians!]] So this was the lowest point of national policy - the period of governance of the MSZP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-26	Thank you very much. Congressman, if you want two minutes, you're very welcome. The next speaker is Congressman János Volner, Jobbik.
u2015-03-19-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce a different system of considerations. I myself would like to comment on this, partly as an economist and partly as Chairman of the Committee on Enterprise Development of the Parliament, and that is why I am saying that I would like to include other aspects here. As regards this stage of the debate, I think it is important, and even essential, that the Hungarian State devotes budget money to supporting these areas, so that there is sufficient resources here. However, I also think it is very important to do so in a way that does not pay from six places, not from six paying places, but, following the principles of the European Union, finances Hungarian affairs across borders in a transparent manner. So I think it is functionally necessary to clear the number of paying places, their function. I also think it is very important for transparency that, if there is a tendering procedure, on the one hand, this should be done through a tendering system that meets objective criteria, and that, where appropriate, the system should be less party-sympathetic than we can see at present. My fellow Member, István Szávay, spoke only as a reminder of correspondence that shows that some Hungarian organisations across the border are more endowed than other organisations. We do not want the tender system to differentiate on a qualitative basis according to whether the Hungarian organisation is fidesz or non-fidesz; we want objective assessment in this area. We also consider it very important to talk about economic developments across borders. Because it is important and necessary for the Hungarian state to support the survival of Hungarians beyond the borders through budgetary funds, but I also think it is important that at least as much attention - and even more - be focused on keeping as many Hungarians in their homeland as possible through joint economic projects and providing them with a livelihood. This would have at least such an economic impact. I find it interesting, however, that the managing authorities in this area are dominated from the Slovak and Romanian parts, in which the Hungarian State has lost its leading and proactive role. Apparently, there's no ambition to get it back. What are these economic developments that I would consider necessary? I think it is very important for two EU Member States to join together and strengthen economic and social relations in the border region in the form of cross-border projects. In the European Union's target system, this is an important criterion, which the European Union is supporting, and the Hungarian state and other neighbouring states are not taking advantage of. For other neighbouring states, the difference is that we Hungarians have a much larger minority that we are interested in, either at the level of national cohesion or at the level of the development of economic relations in order to achieve these cooperations, but we do not make sufficient use of these opportunities. I also think it is important that, in addition to building economic relations, joint cooperation or existing cooperation between universities and research institutions should be established, in addition to common infrastructure developments; Hungary is well aware that, unfortunately, its willingness to innovate in Europe is becoming increasingly worse. From this point of view, from the point of view of the mother country, it would also be important for the cross-border Hungarians to strengthen in these areas. I also think it is very important that Hungarian policy across borders is also focused on areas and that government programmes should focus on this in order to create joint tourism developments. The destination management is now an established tool for tourism development everywhere in the European Union, and it would also be important to create joint developments, such as Hungary and Romania, Hungary-Ukraine, Hungary-Serbia or Slovakia; these developments have not been developed either, although this would otherwise have an important economic uplifting effect. Just think of the great economic differences between cross-border Hungarian zones depending on which side of the current borders people live, there is a significant difference between whether they belong to an advanced or undeveloped economic zone. It is also important in the area of tourism to create not only accommodations but also various attractions in the development of destinations, as tourists travel for these purposes, not because they want a hotel room, but also for the development of attractions. Unfortunately, with these conceptual ideas, the Hungarian state owes the same debt to this day as it did during the period of the socialists. I would therefore urge the development of these too. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-19-28	Thank you very much, Congressman Volner. In the next 15 minutes' time frame, Mr László Szászfalvi, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-03-19-29	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I do not wish to besiege my fellow Member, László Kiss, but I am forced to reflect on a few things. On the one hand, I could not really explain at the end of the two-minute period the world-famous national political initiative of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Government after 2002. So it was in concreto that the Reformed Church District of Királypassómellék had a signed grant agreement for the implementation of a project of 320 million from the Széchenyi plan, which would have created a military project and a national memorial site in Érmindszent. Mr Vilmos Szabó, Secretary of State, has rewritten this contract without any legal basis or other, and has played it into the hands of the DAHR. I wouldn't go into the details of this, of course. So I think that this is how the national policy of the MSZP began, and the rest should not be continued, and otherwise we remembered this in a few words. I would also like to point out that the support for Protestant pastoral training has actually started in the last four years, since during the period of socialist governments theology in Cluj has not received a single penny. A single penny of Hungarian state aid was not granted to the traditional and significant institution that actually provides a base for the Transylvanian Institute - and not only for Transylvania, as they go to and learn from elsewhere. I would also like to say that our first Hungarian-speaking higher education institution, the Partium Christian University, has not received a single penny of funding - at least in a predictable and stable way - from a socialist government. So this, too, I think, is an important and important question. I would also like to reflect on the fact that the national policy support framework is set up from more than one place. [[11.30]] This has been the case in the last eight years, my dear Member László Kiss, and I think that this does not simply mean that this is bad or good, it is not a matter of judgement. I think that budgetary resources must be adapted to a governance structure and not only to the governance structure, but also to the support opportunities that the Hungarian government clearly wants to involve as many European Union funds as possible in support of Hungarian communities across borders. So it's not just up to us, it's not just our responsibility, it's important that we make the best possible use of potential funding. By chance, I had the debate in the 2008 report of the Parent Land Fund, on which I was present, and I said, among other things, that for five years - then, in 2009 - there was no increase in national political subsidies during the socialist governments period, and I think that it has not increased in eight years. I am talking not only about the Parent Land Fund, but also about national policy subsidies in general. Compared with this, the amount of national policy subsidies increased by magnitude after 2010. Another issue, as I mentioned, consisted of several ministries, and these sources come together. By the way, I would like to point out that, in order to coordinate or coordinate these resources, the Intergovernmental Committee for National Policy was established after 2010, which, at least in the past four years, has regularly met and coordinated, coordinated the effectiveness and the combined harmonious impact of these resources under the leadership of the State Secretariat for National Policy. I would also like to say, Mr President, that after 2010, for example, there has been a radical change in the area of church subsidies, as there has been virtually only a very minimal support before 2010, in 2009, in early 2010, and we have multiplied the funding frameworks for churches, whether they are to be granted to them or as individual support to our churches across the border. I would like Congressman László Kiss to take a specific look at this and not just throw words at it. So here I can also say in particular that in 2009, in the last year of the socialists, there were 375 million forints in support of church cultural heritage. This has increased by more than 2 billion in the 2011 budget for the first Fidesz-KDNP government, Member. So to talk about not increasing resources, not changing resources, it's simply not true and it's not true. So I think it would be worth looking into these numbers and then making a statement. Mr Volner has just said a few words about cross-border and cross-border cooperation. He said nothing happened in these areas. I would like to say that, over the last three, three and a half years, many cross-border project programmes have been implemented either in tourism or in religious tourism. I personally participated in the launch of these programmes myself, and I can tell you that although I had doubts, although there were difficulties, because here I had to work with and work with the Romanian and Slovak authorities, but it is very, very important that we have managed to implement some of the major programmes, either in relation to the Highlands or the Partium, which were concrete, significant investments and developments, precisely in order to achieve the objective that Congressman Volner was talking about; so it is not true that nothing happened. It happened and happens, it's just a pretty complicated game, because we have to work together here. There are many actors in these cooperations, not only governmental factors on both sides, but also local governments, civil society organisations, churches, and obviously this cooperation must be harmonised and implemented within some framework. I would also like to point out, Mr László Kiss, that in many cases, even at the meeting of the MÁÉRT, I remember that President Jenő Szász was there at the meeting of the Committee on National Inclusion, and he brought us large packages, in which there are in particular various strategic materials that show the work of the National Strategy Research Institute, so we can talk not only about the various, beautiful, I think, events that strengthen national cohesion, but also about the materials placed on the table. Of course, it is not my place to reveal in detail and defend the work of the National Strategy Research Institute, but you have, or at least I hope, faced with these materials, which have already been prepared. With regard to the revision of education and training support, I think we are in agreement here and there is consensus. Mr Potápi State Secretary has already said this in several cases. We are obviously looking forward to your presentation, your proposal, and then we can obviously have a debate about it. I believe that we will be able to establish a consensus in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-30	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2015-03-19-31	Thank you very much for another opportunity, Mr President. There's been a lot of talk, so let's go through it in a row. He finished here at the National Strategy Research Institute, Congressman Szászfalvi. Yes, President Jenő Szász was at the committee meeting and refused to answer one question, my dear fellow Member; you were there. For some mysterious reason, Jenő Szász attended the meeting of the National Assembly Committee to open it, or we didn't really understand what she was doing there. He said a toast, and then when I applied, and I started asking him what the Institute was doing and what HUF 1.2 billion had been spent on taxpayers' money in the last year, while you were taking away education and education support from Hungarian families across the border, Jenő Szász refused to answer any questions, saying that she had not come to the committee meeting, but to say a toast. So that's it. By the way, we are waiting for the president to meet with the committee, and we have put him on our six-month agenda. I'm very curious to know what you'll be able to tell me. They really only had a website for a few months; when you were at the committee meeting, you weren't there, by the way, it wasn't worth 1.2 billion. To date, the posts are not filled, so there is a framework for how many people can work in the institute, but they have failed to get at least to fill the posts. We don't have any field agents, we don't know where their headquarters are, because where they are, where they don't, where they move. Their programmes do not understand why a National Strategic Research Institute, a scientific institute, should organise a Mangalica Festival in Szeklerland, apart from the fact that President Szász organised a soccer cup in Szeklerland. [[Zoltán Tessely: That's not what we're talking about!]] There's no problem with the soccer cup, support it from the Bethlen Gábor Fund, but maybe this shouldn't be done by the research institute. Here, Mr Szászfalvi, President Panczél, has also described the examples, and there has been a long Lament of the National Policy of the MSZP. You can come back to this for a sentence or two, it's worth it, and I've done it, but please consider me now or at last acknowledge that we're in 2015 and you've been on the government for five years! So as an oppositionist, who, by the way, cannot be accused of a great socialist sympathy, I don't care what was now five and ten and fifteen years ago. Mr President, it is ridiculous, of course, that we should not talk about vegetables here - I say to my fellow Member, Mr Kiss - that there was no political bias here under your governance in national policy. Of course there was. Of course there was, but let's not mention these examples. Congressman Szászfalvi, we are discussing the 2013 Bethlen Gábor Fund report, and we are talking about the 2013 abuse and political split money, let's talk about it. By the way, while we're here, I also want to tell you that there's a big difference between MSZP and Fidesz money distribution. The difference is that during the MSZP government, at least they didn't want to kill anyone who didn't agree with them, and you did that. [[11.40]] Anyone who doesn't eat out of your hands, who refuses to surrender to Fidesz a hundred percent, will be killed, strangled and impossible. This is perfectly visible in the distribution of money, it is perfectly visible in the application results. It was said that my fellow Member, Szászfalvi, was critical of the fact that the socialists had abolished MÁÉRT. This is certainly true, and this is undoubtedly scandalous. But the Socialists have eliminated MÁÉRT, and you have completely neutered it. The Hungarian Permanent Conference, in its form as it now operates, makes practically all the sense that Zsolt Semjén can hold a press conference afterwards and can tell you how great Hungarian national policy is and that there was consensus once again when the final declaration was signed. We are talking about Zsolt Semjén, who, as Deputy Prime Minister, is overseeing national policy, and on one occasion in the last five years, my fellow Members, when there were not too many reports or laws in the House on his subject, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister did not pay his respects here on one occasion. Just like he's not here right now. [[Zoltán Tessely's intervention.]] This is certainly not a criticism of the presence of Secretary of State Potápi, of course, but I think it might be possible for the Deputy Prime Minister to go to Parliament twice a year and here he is if we are discussing Hungarians across the border. By the way, about the final declaration of the MÁÉRT, Mr President, and the operation of the whole MÁÉRT, so much that we will include anything in the final declaration in vain if you do not comply with it and do not oblige you to do anything. I would like to remind you that in the last MÁÉRT closing statement, which we unanimously adopted, you, the two parties of government and the government, there was the condition that the people present agree that it is necessary to facilitate the exercise of the right to vote of those who are or who are absent from Hungary. Finding a solution in English... [[Árpád Potápi turning to János:]] - I don't know why you're nodding, Mr. Secretary of State, that's how it was - the facilitation, the elimination of the condition that you don't have to, where appropriate, [[Zoltán Tessely: Have you seen the results?]] [[Zoltán Tessely: Have you seen the results?]] hundreds or thousands of kilometers to travel (Zoltán Tessely: Did you see the results?) to america or western Europe... Give me two minutes, Congressman, I'm very curious about your opinion, but I can't hear what you're saying and I can't talk. So it's easier not to have to travel hundreds or thousands of miles to vote in a consulate. Because this is the case now, however, that Hungarians from beyond the border, who, in most parts and even overwhelmingly, are sympathizers and voters of Fidesz, can also give up their votes in envelopes from anywhere in the world, while the people living in Western Europe, including you and the MSZP emigrated from Hungary, cannot do so, and they do not participate very much in the vote. So, the Hungarian Permanent Conference, Congressman, doesn't make much sense. There is no substantive debate, no substantive decisions. The clever staff of the State Secretariat for National Policy will scissor the final declaration of the previous 3-4 years in another fifth version, and we will have to listen to the empty government success propaganda for half an hour throughout the MÁÉRT about how great everything is beyond the border, so that no question can be asked to the rapporteur State Secretarys, or when it is possible to ask a question, the secretary of state will be leaving the scene by then. So there is no substantive debate there. In principle, national policy should be in place to discuss issues concerning the whole of Hungary, but, of course, there is no possibility for you to do so. Nor at the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin. Mr Szászfalvi referred back to my fellow Member, Mr Volner, who spoke about cross-border relations. It's really not true that a lot of things didn't happen. I agree with the congressman on this. For example, you have renounced the managing authority both in the Hungarian-Slovakian and Hungarian-Romanian context. We gave the managing authority to Bratislava and Bucharest, voluntarily and singing, because they also tried to make some kind of gesture towards Romania and Slovakia in some truly amazing wretched way. In the Hungarian-Romanian context, the whole initiative is completely dead, because the Romanians are practically unwilling to talk to Hungary now. The Hungarian-Romanian relations were so deep, I don't know when they were last, but not very much in the last decade. Now, that is what Zsolt Németh and János Martonyi's successful foreign policy was worth, which cannot be distinguished by a nuance from the foreign policy of László Kovács. This is what the unilateral gestures meant, the constant bowing of the hair, the constant bowing, and the hope that if we are cool and retreat, we do not demand much, then perhaps they will relieve a little of the pressure on Hungarians across the border, but we must not be loud, we must not demand, we must not ask for rights, we must not act decisively against the Romanian government, because they are our friends and strategic partners. Well, that's what this policy meant in five years, and before that, we're pretty much here right now. Education and education support. It was a shame to bring that up again to Mr. Secretary of State of Saxony, but I'll say it again. Forint 44,500 should be in real value for this support right now. When you talk about how much support there has been, it's just not true. Real value... [[In response to an intervention:]] No, we're not getting ahead of ourselves. In terms of real value, we are nothing further ahead than we were in 2009-2010. [[László Szászfalvi's intervention.]] But education and education support is one of the most eloquent evidences of how true this is, by the way. This amount should be HUF 44,500, and you will reduce the amount of HUF 22,000 to 17,000. I am really only responding to this for one sentence to Congressman Vinnai and to you, Congressman Szászfalvi. For six ministries and six chapters of national policy objectives to be thrown apart, you said that this was not a matter of judgment. No, it's a professional question. According to the State Audit Office, Mr Szászfalvi - what the State Audit Office did, by the way, and the year before last year in its annual report - is not transparent - subsidies for national policy purposes are not transparent. [[László Szászfalvi: He wrote this ten years ago!]] That's the State Audit Office, the president of which is your former colleague. [[László Szászfalvi: He wrote it ten years ago!]] No, you didn't write that this year, Congressman. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Ten years ago! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] This year, he wrote that there was a deterioration in the transparency of subsidies for national policy purposes. Not only could you improve this, but you have been able to improve the opaque system... [[Laszlo Szászfalvi says no.]] Yes, read the report, Congressman, that's what it says. And don't pull my moustache, Congressman Vinnai, with the college in Beregszas. I know the college of Beregszas very well. [[Noise from the Fidesz benches. The president's gonna ring the bell again.]] My wife is from Transcarpathia, where she graduated from college, and she was the head of the student council. We know exactly what's going on there. We do not know exactly what we are going to do, let us say so much, but when we are talking about college, let us also mention that if you are asking for quality training, what is needed and the college is also needed, and it is very right to support - it is wrong not to support anything else - just if we are talking about high-quality training, let us also add that you have the ability to really have high-quality training, that you really have a degree in teaching there. It is also the responsibility of the Hungarian state, for example, in the mutual recognition of scientific degrees, that is one of the stories. The other is that the college should not necessarily be the paying place for KMKZ cadets, and that there should be people there who do not have a scientific degree, but do not even have a professional university degree, and who teach four or five different subjects as a polyhistorian. By the way, besides all the importance and usefulness of college, you know it very well, and so do I. It's just not polite to talk about it, it's practically a party college. It's your off-campus class there. It is clearly stated, practically clearly stated... [[Moore from the benches of Fidesz.]] Oh, yes, you do. It is clearly communicated and expected of everyone, it is expected of everyone, employees, teachers and students to support KMKZ and Fidesz. That's what they're looking for. You know that, everyone knows that. On the other hand, there are many other educational institutions in Transcarpathia that have not yet been managed to reach, and they do not necessarily support these institutions with a single penny. In conclusion - and I do not want to comment on it several times - and I think that the debate can be closed slowly, because we are going around the same topics - I would be very pleased if you would only whip your own government with a quarter of the vehemency, let us say, as you are doing in the undisputed discovery of the maladministration of the MSZP national policy. I know very well that you are aware that a lot of things around the Bethlen Gábor Fund are not right. We all know that. We have expectations that we have managed to put a little more order in place, and we have some positive expectations that, under the direction of the Secretary of State, things may go a little differently than under Zsuzsanna Répás. However, a year or three quarters of the new governance has now passed, and we are looking forward to the results in this regard. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-19-32	Thank you, Congressman Savay. I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-03-19-33	Thank you for the floor. Just to facilitate further criticism of the MSZP, because I do not want to talk about the past for five years, and to criticise a national policy that both Attila Mesterházy and József Tobias have revised in the past and in the present party president. Let me therefore summarise in a few points what the MSZP has been saying for five years, and this is where critical positions can be drawn up. Because I think that this is what would lead to a debate, a constructive debate in national politics, because that would be about the future, for example, not the past. [[11.50]] We say that national policy must be based on prosperity in the homeland; we say that a policy of support which does not apply political aspects and is transparent; we say that in the foreign policy relationship system, substantive issues or, as previously said, pro-government politicians, difficult issues must also be on the agenda. We believe that these items should be put on the agenda, and that the interests of the Hungarians living there can also be represented by joint government meetings and by strengthening their relations with neighbouring countries, and we have made a detailed proposal for a strategic planning for the single economic space in the Carpathian Basin. This is the national policy of the MSZP. I would like to see critical comments on this, too, because in that case we could really talk about the future, we could talk about what we are saying about the future, whether you can support it or not. This is important because, when we get to the past, we see that, on the basis of a number of critical remarks - in which I think you are absolutely right, I must say - you are pursuing the same policy as you have been critical in many cases. This would be a mistake, and I would warn you against this activity. Please accept my words in such a way that they do not make or add to the mistakes of the past. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-19-34	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Mr Vinnai Fidesz Fidesz has the floor.
u2015-03-19-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, István Szávay said that they teach at the college in Beregszász without a degree in science. I would like to draw my fellow Member's attention - and consider this aspect when he says such unfair sentences - to the fact that I myself was there in 1994 as a teacher at the College of Nyíregyháza after three decades of higher education, when we created the foundations of the college in Beregszasz almost out of nowhere, in unheated halls, in the college of the Reformed Church, teaching in elementary schools, raising a generation. And then, I apologize, you don't know the operation of the college in Beregszász well, if you remember the activity of Kálmán Soós, who we recently lost, was a rector of the college, of what kind of scientific replacement he was thinking; or that we created a foundation that promoted scientific qualifications; and that the Hungarian government itself supports the operation of this college, which doesn't receive state support in Ukraine, unlike this other aspect - with the Hungarian school of the University of Ungvár or with its hungarian institute, which is an important thing, but they receive state support, while in Beregszász and the district of Beregs, where the Hungarians live in the highest proportion, I believe that this training is the past - I can say that, from 94-95 onwards - it has entered a career that is really for our recognition, and I now say this, free of party politics, that it is also worth your recognition. So I would like to emphasise once again that this is an institution that keeps Hungarians in their homeland now, in this particularly difficult situation. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Dénes Pigeon: A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi for two minutes, KDNP.
u2015-03-19-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to briefly reflect on Mr Savay's two sentences. On the one hand, if our government is engaged in a catastrophic economic policy - I think that's what he used. [[István Szávay: That's what I said.]] - Then let me say, on the one hand, the economic policy of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government when it bankrupted the country. If the disastrous economic policy, my dear Member, is that there is finally an increase in GDP above 3 per cent, almost no inflation, we have been able to keep the deficit below 3 per cent for years, and Hungary is now ranked 9th among the countries proposed for investment, then I do not know what you are talking about. With regard to cross-border relations or projects, Mr Szávay, I would like to say that he is right that we have given up the role of the intermediate organisation or authority, I can say in the Romanian context, but that is because if there was no progress in that regard, and we say that they would then do it, then the whole project would have failed and a single penny... [[István Szávay: He failed.]] It did not fail, because more than two billion HUF worth of project could be implemented in four areas for Romanian and Hungarian cross-border programmes. And I would like to say to Mr László Kiss that we have obviously been very different from the presentation here, so we may have to have a national political debate day here, and that is where we can obviously talk about these issues. The fact that the Fidesz-KDNP government has continued its national policy over the past four years is simply not true. At last year's parliamentary or national elections, Hungarian citizens across the border clearly expressed their support for the national policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government. Take a look at the numbers. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay for two minutes.
u2015-03-19-39	What national assembly are you talking about? I'm sorry. What national assembly are you talking about when hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are virtually deprived of their suffrage by not giving them the same opportunity to vote in a letter as foreign Hungarians can? The Hungarians from abroad did not vote for Fidesz-KDNP's national policy, but that you gave them dual citizenship. [[László Szászfalvi: It is not a national policy.]] What Jobbik has been demanding since 2003 [[Interview from Fidesz: Jobbik wasn't even here in 2003!]] And you were against it even in 2009, which is what the Hungarians across the border voted for. So let's not talk about a national assembly here. Then we can talk about a national assembly, Congressman, if you can send your vote in Budapest in London in the same way you can send your vote in a letter as the strip-szeredai standing at the next bar. As long as that's not the case, there's no National Assembly. By the way, if we are talking about a catastrophic economic policy... - we can list the budgetary indicators and the percentage of GDP. [[László Szászfalvi: This is specific!]] Congressman, don't tell me, in Western Europe, you're telling hundreds of thousands of people that GDP has increased in Hungary. More than a quarter of a million people have left Hungary under your governance, Congressman. More than a quarter of a million people left the country and went to take all kinds of bad jobs in Western Europe to make a living. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Demagogia!]] And a quarter of a million is a lower voice... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Now the socialists are saying the other numbers from the other side, but here a little careful, because emigration did not start in 2010, my fellow socialists! [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: 2013! 2010! After the change of regime!]] And on the question of the managing authority, Congressman, the program is dead, it's completely dead. Congressman Vinnai, please don't twist my words. Of course, we need the support of all Hungarian institutions that are strategically important and significant across borders, which is what we ourselves say. It's just that you don't do this, you don't all support them, you only support your kind people and the institutions where there's always a fidesz prowess and political propaganda, and you support these institutions. The National University of Ungvár now has no money for heating and lighting, and the Hungarian Faculty of the National University of Ungvár is not of national importance, because its leaders do not have such a political relationship with you as the leadership of the College of Beregszász. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-19-40	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Petneházy for two minutes.
u2015-03-19-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I didn't intend to speak, but this whole day's debate got to the point where it started to remind me a little bit, and it grew far beyond what was usually the case in committee, and then the arguments followed to the point that all sorts of other subjects would be drawn in. And, Congressman Szávay, to apologize for what I'm about to say, you're doing this very well on the committee, and you're definitely - you might be thrilled - you're pulling in on all sorts of other political things, as Congressman Szászfalvi has said, you're starting to shoot with all kinds of economic data everywhere, and I think - and I apologize again - you're shooting a little bit blind at this time. This certainly doesn't go any further, because since my colleague László Kiss said that shooting was just to destroy the other one - wasn't it? - That doesn't make any sense. And I think that this is definitely not going to go any further, because it's insulting the other, that when we're on the government, how are we gonna get the other one to go straight? [[István Szávay: I just want to be accounted for, Congressman. Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] It doesn't belong here at all, because it's really to use that word again, to destroy the other one. [[12.00]] I think, on such a subject as foreign Hungarians, it is completely inappropriate to bring him here, not that he is appropriate on any other subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-42	Thank you. Two minutes, Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP!
u2015-03-19-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I did not wish to comment either, because my fellow Member László Kiss said all the things that we thought were important, but if you are already taking this debate in a direction in which there are mixed figures, then let us also say what is factual. So, when they talk about the economy... - I highly recommend it to my fellow Member of Saxony as he leaves the Chamber. So, if you're talking about the economy, it's okay if you know that from 2010 to 2015 - from 2010 to 2015 - more than 400 thousand economic refugees have left this country. There were, yes, 100-120 thousand people who did not work in Hungary. But now, during this period only in London - they know which city it is - it is only over 200,000 people in London, more than 200,000 Hungarians who do work. This city is competing with Debrecen today in order to be the second largest Hungarian city, the second largest city inhabited by Hungarians. In Germany, more than 100,000 people, more than 50,000 people in Austria, and more than 20,000 in the last year, more than 70,000 people in Hungary are employed in these countries, and I have not yet talked about the other countries. One word as a hundred: use at least data that are correct and factual. And I have to add that these people are not doing their job in good faith and in good spirits there, but because you are doing nothing against your promise - a million new jobs in the economy, a tax-paying job - but driving these people away because you couldn't make a living any other way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-19-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in a 15-minute time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The joint general debate is closed. It is now possible to conclude the report or the draft decision in a 30-30-minute time frame. First, I will give the floor to State Secretary Árpád Potápi, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-03-19-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would like to highlight the subject in which I would like to reflect on the things that you have raised, namely the 2013 report by the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which the Members of Parliament have spoken about in their comments in the last three hours. Anyone who might have concluded otherwise is wrong, because the topic is basically the 2013 BGA report. Of course, this has given us the opportunity to talk about national policy in general, and obviously it was also about the years before 2013 and the years after that, as I did in the introduction and in the exposé. However, I would like to focus my response on the year 2013 and, in particular, on the report, I think that we should answer the questions that concern 2013 in the first place. It was said that the decision-making of the Bethlen Gábor Fund was, in general, opaque. Now, for the year 2013, the Head of the Supervisory Board of the State Audit Office announced the examination of the State Audit Office and the results of its investigation to the National Assembly Committee on Monday. The Court reviewed 117 items and found no errors. You are Bethlen Gábor Alapkezelő Zrt. has also carried out monitoring activities in 2013, and the focus of previous years has been on internal document-based and internal process-based monitoring. In 2013, the focus was shifted towards on-the-spot inspections. On-the-spot checks started in the second half of 2013, in a total of 54 cases. The organisational unit set up in 2013 carried out the basic activity well and carried out a multi-day on-the-spot inspection of each organisation taking into account the territorial distribution of the beneficiaries. Moreover, monthly on-the-spot checks have already been carried out since 2014. Several criticisms have been expressed, and many have been affected by the transformation of education and educational support and the transformation of this system. In several forums, including the committee meeting, I said that we are thinking about this transformation ourselves, because both its scale - about HUF 20,000 - and the way in which it is distributed, the way in which it has been applied has not changed since 2001, and the last ten years, or nearly fifteen years - we can now say, are the reasons why we might change the system. I think - and here let me quote the sentences and thoughts of Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén - that we will not transform this system because we want to transform it, but we need to establish a system of applications that can improve this system for all parents and children in all regions, so that it is accepted by parents' organisations, teachers' organisations, as well as political and social organisations across borders, and in Hungary, primarily members of the Hungarian Permanent Conference. Of course, in this conciliation work we will involve Parliament's representatives of the National Assembly Committee and, of course, we will also ask the factions for assistance in this. I think this job will be resolved in a few months. I want this work to be completed by the end of the school year, so we can start the summer with the possibility of knowing what the new system will be like. It was also a list of institutions of national importance. A critical remark was made as to why institutions proposed by foreign organisations are not automatically added to this list. This is because the 10th meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference adopted the criteria for supporting institutions of national importance. These include national policy criteria, such as the institution's activities, which make a significant contribution to the preservation and care of the mother tongue; and, of course, financial criteria such as whether the institution has an annual professional and financial plan. Therefore, although the list of institutions of national importance is proposed by MÁÉR's member organisations, only those that are able to meet these criteria can become national institutions. A question was raised and a question was also raised as to whether a small proportion of the total amount of aid could be applied to BGA under an open tender. Therefore, I would like to emphasise here that not only the central and regional applications, but, of course, the educational-education grants, the Dr. Pál Szász Scholarship and some support from the Hungarian schoolchildren abroad were also announced in the framework of calls for proposals. [[12.10]] Thus, most of the funding from the Fund has been communicated to the beneficiaries through public calls for proposals and communicated to my predecessors. And I would note here that we are debating and talking about 2013 for three hours, and some of the Members weren't even members of Parliament when this year came to pass. So we are talking about a basically professional report that I believe that Parliament, if we look at it logically, cannot decide otherwise than to accept it, because both professionally and financially the year 2013 has been achieved. There has been more criticism than the institutions of national importance about the institutions in Transcarpathia that are not in this circle. I do not want to go into this debate, but what we see is that the National University of Ungvár receives additional subsidies, and the Hungarian Institute receives subsidies. The last time I was there, you signed a cooperation agreement, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and you received support from the Eastern Partnership. I'm talking about both institutions. But what we're saying is that Beregszász II. Ferenc Rákóczi College has been established practically only from Hungarian sources, since then it has been working from Hungarian sources, all of its development, all of its classes and occupations, practically everything is implemented from Hungarian state sources. Their staying on the surface and their activities can only be discussed in the highest way, with all our appreciation for the College of Beregszász and the colleagues who teach there. By the way, the Hungarian Government has contributed to the amounts just mentioned with further substantial amounts, with a decision by the end of December, which will start in the near future, and we hope that this will be completed as soon as possible. It has also been said that we do not know exactly what the amount spent on national politics is. Last year, our State Secretary - when I was the State Secretary - conducted a survey: HUF 21 billion. And this is not complete, I tell you honestly, the amount for national policy purposes was more than HUF 21 billion, which reached cross-border areas, since there are similar amounts not only for the State Secretary for National Policy, the Bethlen Gábor Fund, but also for other purses. To this, let us add that many public and non-state, larger and smaller companies also engage in national policy activities and support Hungarian cross-border organisations, and we also wanted to assess these amounts. I do not think that, with regard to issues which are not specifically related to the functioning of the BGA or the operation of the State Secretariat for National Policy, I should now enter into a lengthy debate or respond to the debate. The name and activity of the NSKI have been mentioned several times. What I can tell you about the NSKI is that, of course, we work together with the NSKI. I very much hope that the goals they have set can be achieved this year. By the way, this institution, if I remember correctly, was created in 12th, but it does not belong to the BGA organizationally, nor does it belong to the State Secretariat for National Policy, but of course, as a national political organization, we must do our work in cooperation and in harmony. We'll do that anyway. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their critical comments. By the way, these debates are also good for the fact that, of course, we can incorporate these criticisms into our future work by paying attention to opposition and pro-government speeches. We will, of course, do so in the next period, so I thank my fellow Members for their comments. And, of course, I would like to thank the CEO of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, as well as the 77 colleagues of the National Policy Secretary-General, for both the years 2013 and the previous years, and since then, they have been performing their activities and are working on the progress of national policy. Thank you very much for listening, and I ask Parliament to adopt the report in plenary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will give you the floor if you wish - I see you ask - to speak to Mr Károly Panczél, President of the National Assembly Committee, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-03-19-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Having responded in detail to the questions raised in the debate and to the problems raised, and, in fact, in the debate, we were both far from the year 2013 and from the specific issue on the accounts of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, I will therefore be very, very brief and limited to what is the essence of the Commission's own motion. H/3523. I would like to ask for a proposal for a resolution to support the activities of the Bethlen Gábor Fund in 2013. The Fidesz-KDNP fractional association will support this resolution proposal, and I ask you to do the same. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-48	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A joint general debate on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies for 2013 and the joint proposal for a resolution by the Judicial Committee on its adoption will follow. The report is B/101. by serial number, and the proposal for a decision is H/3779. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as a nationality item by the Parliament on the basis of the decision of the House Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr László Székely, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the author of the report. You have the floor, László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights.
u2015-03-19-49	Mr. Vice President, Honourable Members, Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for the opportunity to add an oral amendment here for the first time since 2009 to the report on the work of 2013. My predecessor has not received this opportunity in recent years, but it is part of my report today that the year on which the report is now in your hands is largely the result of the work of my predecessor. Perhaps, if you remember, I took the office from October 2013, and the Deputy Commissioner, on whose behalf I am holding this report, was in office for only two months in the year in question. [[12.20]] My predecessor, Máté Szabó, said in his last report that I firmly believe that the President of the Republic will be able to appoint the head of a well-structured, strengthened and study-rich institution at the end of my six-year operation in 2013. I would like to confirm before you that Máté Szabó knew and established this situation. This statement is true, I was indeed inherited by a well-built, experienced institution with very prepared staff who did their job with dedication and great skill. This situation made my acclimatisation a lot easier when I took office, and it was also fortunate that I had excellent collegial relations with both Commissioners, and that we had maximum professional confidence in each other. I think this will help you through the difficulties of driving. The volume you have received, our 2013 report, is a very thick, instructive reading, perhaps I could compare it to the sociological series Discovery of Hungary, because it is an accurate impression of the state, the law, society, if you will, life itself, and behind this life, there are fates if you read into these reports. There are human fates behind them, as I said, life itself, and sometimes these human fates turn to the office with petitions made as a cry for help. Anyone curious about the social reality that surrounds us can learn from this volume. We have attached a DVD record to this report. In addition to the electronic version of this report, you will find some 3300 pages of reports and resolutions. If I may run a little further to the year 2014, you will only be able to call this off with a QR code, but we will have time to present this in the next year's report. I'll give you some numbers. In 2013, citizens and their communities turned to the office with 7,000 applications; with nearly 7,000, the number was not accurate. Thanks to the IT registration and organizational reform launched in 2012, the Office managed to complete 2500 more cases in 2013 than before. In total, there are only 855 cases left for 2014 that started in 2013. This proves that the organizational transformation has been successful, that the work of the Office has become more efficient, and that despite the constantly changing legislative environment, the Office has received new and new tasks in recent years. This is what the apparatus is trying to achieve at the highest possible level, while its staff base remains unchanged and its budgetary resources have not increased. What is new is this oral amendment, compared to the previous state, in so far as I have to account for the work of the deputy commissioners. If I may, I would like to draw attention to Marcel Szabó's activity, who was already in office in the year 2013. As you know, as defined in the Act on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the Ombudsman must pay particular attention to the natural and cultural values defined in Article P of the Fundamental Law, which form the common heritage of the nation, to be preserved for future generations. These natural values include forest, land, groundwater and groundwater, as well as biological diversity, i.e. diversity. The declaration of the right to healthy drinking water in both domestic and international legal forums was a key element of our activity in 2013. As a pre-event of the Budapest Water Summit, we attended a conference in Pécs for the first time on 29 March. Here, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we discussed the right to water and the system of protection of fundamental rights in Hungary, and together with the Swiss-based WaterLex organization, we organised a meeting on the post-2015 agenda of water and human rights in Geneva, as well as at the Budapest Water Summit Vice-President Marcel Szabó spoke and pointed out the importance of this area. Surprisingly, access to drinking water is not only a problem for the third world or for the developing world, but also for some aspects of our country. You may remember that in the summer of 2013 the municipality closed public wells in Ózd, and that's why we had to open an investigation, because over a thousand households do not have fixed water in this settlement, so it affected thousands of people. The body of representatives of the urban municipality has issued a decree whereby residents of immovable property not included in the public water supply may use the water of public rivers as a legitimate consumer against payment of a fee. In the summer months, because of the accumulated public debts, the municipality closed 27 wells and reduced water pressure on 62 additional wells, as I understand it, by end-of-pipe method. In closed or pressure-reduced wells, water consumption per person was 27 and 17 litres/person respectively; legislation requires a minimum of 20 litres of water, which is mandatory. By the way, the municipal decree established the water price to be paid to 30 litres in order to further increase the chaos. In Hungary, the average person's water consumption is about 100 litres, of which only 3-4 litres are actually used for consumption - drinking and cooking - and the rest is actually used to satisfy the hygiene needs of the person. From these data, it is clear that reducing water consumption to a minimum will pose a very serious health, infectological and epidemiological risk. Together with the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Interests of the Future Generation, we have prepared a report, and we have to say that the state has an obligation to provide drinking water and clean and healthy drinking water for the minimum living even if the person concerned is unable to bear the costs of this. We must also pay particular attention to forests protected by Article P of the Fundamental Law. In 2012, the Ministry of Rural Development agreed to an amendment to the forest management and forest protection law, which we disagreed with in several respects. It had to be pointed out that the planned changes would have a negative impact on the ban on cutting, relaxing these rules, and removing the continuous forest cover obligation on flatland forests were also issues in which we had to express our disagreement. To our greatest satisfaction, they were accepted by the Ministry and, as a result, these contested parts have already been omitted from the subsequent drafts. I think that the 2013 report by the UN Secretary-General on intergenerational solidarity and the needs of future generations, published on 17 September, was a very important event, in which the Hungarian Ombudsman system was presented among the eight national institutions around the world, which are uniquely institutionalised to try to enforce the interests of future generations. As a result of this report, our office organised a three-day conference in which it sought to cooperate with the national institutions included in the UN Secretary-General's report. At the conference, national institutions working on the interests of future generations accepted the Budapest Declaration establishing their international network for institutional relations and exchange of experience. Following the previous practice of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Future Generations, we have concluded a cooperation agreement with the Association of Hungarian Administrative Judges, with the help of which we organise discussions where we seek to assess EU environmental principles and their impact by exchanging experiences and exchanging information in order to ensure that all values related to nature protection and environmental protection become as much as possible practices in administrative justice. [[12.30]] We also considered it important to draw attention to the fact that the land is a common national heritage due to the natural characteristics of our country. In view of the fact that the growing time is very slow, for many years the property of soil can only develop that which makes it suitable for man to produce agriculture, but at the same time it is a very vulnerable national treasure, and in our view the organic farming that serves to recreate this land is a constitutional value for which the state has an obligation to protect institutions. This has been highlighted in one of our important reports. This must therefore be preserved, and in the legislation, land is a value to be protected, regardless of ownership. With regard to the other Deputy Commissioner's work, allow me to make some comments. The protection of nationality rights is, of course, a prominent focus of the Ombudsman's operation. About 10 percent of the population is considered to have a nationality identity, but the number of complaints does not reflect this ratio. I don't think it's that good. In any case, the importance, the weight of ex officio cases and the work of deputy commissioners and nationalities to increase legal awareness make it even more important. In 2013, the ombudsman's office's inquiries into national self-governments were mainly related to the internal control of local authorities, changes in legislation and cooperation between local and municipal national authorities. Allow me to present you with some of these major findings and reports. During the census, it was possible to voluntarily declare belonging to nationality, and at the time of the survey it was not known that these data would be used for election purposes. In view of the concerns raised, the then fundamental Commissioner turned to the Constitutional Court in 2012, but the panel considered that this regulation was not contrary to the Fundamental Law. In the first half of 2013, another ombudsman's inquiry was carried out, which showed that the use of census data alone could not rule out the possibility of an abuse of elections and showed that such a way of regulation would also prevent the establishment of municipalities in settlements where this would otherwise be necessary. The right to ethnic education was a very important focus. This is a key issue for the survival of these communities, because assimilation is very advanced, and in these circumstances the future of nationality is increasingly dependent on nationality education and the effectiveness of education. Among the studies in this area, I would like to highlight the report on national minority language examinations. This report concluded that, in the context of the granting of nationality language rights, the State has an obligation to establish the objective possibility of an accredited language examination in Bulgarian, Polish, Armenian, Ruthenian and Ukrainian languages, taking into account the gaps in the education of ethnic teachers and the limited support provided by guest teachers. In 2013, we examined the possibilities of language revitalization, which, in turn, is in decline due to assimilation. In this context, we have examined, in particular, the possibilities of language use in administrative proceedings, criminal matters, civil litigation and municipal circumstances. Finally, it is a sensitive issue, the issue of hate crimes, which in fact focus exclusively on the Roma population. Here we proposed a legislative amendment, which the Ministry of Justice did not agree with. In their view, the rules which are exclusively engaged in unauthorized public security activities, which are more precisely prohibiting them, are basically good, and rather it is the application of the law that is not able to deal with them properly. However, this was already in 2014, so I would like to report on this next year. If you'll allow me, I've tried very briefly to sum up or supplement verbally what you've received. I think, as a closing thought, I could say that the excellent cooperation and professional trust relationship that connects me to my deputies will also allow them to appear to the public with much greater independence, an independent profile and a face. Accordingly, we have already strengthened the organisational structure of the secretariats of the deputy commissioners across the board by 2014 and, from 2015 onwards, they have basically received separate powers of inquiry in matters falling within their responsibility, of course, by being responsible for everything in public law. Thank you very much for your excellent attention, and I hope that the 2013 year, for which I can only take some responsibility, will also receive your recognition. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-19-50	Thank you, Mr László Székely, for the report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. I now give the floor to Mr Rubovszky, rapporteur for the Justice Committee, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision. You have the floor, Mr. President of the Commission.
u2015-03-19-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Commissioner, Dear Parliament, On 10 March 2015, the Justice Committee heard the Commissioner, but before that we received the report at 101. Following the Commissioner's report, as opposed to the parliamentary scenario here, the two deputies also spoke at the committee meeting. The report did not lead to a debate as much as comments, criticisms and statements of support were made at the committee meeting. The outcome of the hearings was that the committee adopted the report by 10 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour of the Commissioner, including the report by the deputies. At the same time, the committee has decided to present to this House a proposal for a decision to adopt the report. I respectfully request that, as in the committee meeting, where only the two right-wing Members did not support the report, the socialist representatives present supported the report, all of the pro-government representatives supported it, here, even before the National Assembly, as much as possible, be given such overwhelming support. Mr President, I have a personal request. I would like to finish the committee briefing with this, and if and if the committee is closed, then the committee member, Mr Zoltán Demeter, can say so. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[In the notary seat, Erzsébet Schmuck is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2015-03-19-52	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission, and, of course, we appreciate your request, and we will do so. Dear Parliament, We now have the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing nationalities, within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mrs Giricz Vera Ruthenian minority advocate. You have the floor.
u2015-03-19-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Честованый пан Предс Честован... парламентар... и гост...! Велика чисть про мене выступати у Парламент [[12.40]] Mr President, Dear House, Mr Ombudsperson, It is an honor for me to be able to take the floor in the Parliament of Hungary, where between 1939 and 44, the multi-ethnic Transcarpathia, and among them the Ruthenian community of almost one million people, were represented by 14 invited representatives. In Sárospatak and Borsi, a decade and a half ago, on 22 March this year, the domestic Ruthenian community, the most loyal people of the great prince, the Gens fidelissima II. Before the memory of Ferenc Rákóczi and the fight for freedom. On behalf of the domestic Ruthenian community, I thank the House for declaring the great prince's birthday a memorial day. Dear House, At the meeting of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 16 March 2015, the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 22. B/101. A report and a resolution have been drawn up on it. Presidents of national minority self-governments were also invited to the committee meeting. Like the Judicial Committee, the Committee supports the adoption in plenary of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates. The structure of the report also confirms that the duties of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights are complex, embracing all areas of social life that will be affected. The 2011 CXI on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Law No. 1 According to Paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights shall, inter alia, pay special attention to the activities of the Board of Directors of XXIX. For the protection of the rights of nationality set out in Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The legislation provides guarantees to ensure this in several places, including the 40th. § 2 requires the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights to inform Parliament in an annual report of his activities on the protection of fundamental rights, presenting in a separate chapter his steps towards the enforcement of the rights of nationality. Protection of nationality rights should be an essential task for the Ombudsman's work, since his activities also affect other areas of legal protection in the current structure. We believe that more than 100 percent of the population is considered to be national, despite the fact that this is not justified by the statistical data. The report shows that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has fulfilled his legal protection tasks, in addition to the overall monitoring of the area of nationality, by carrying out ex officio proceedings. Complaints from nationalities were minor, apart from complaints from Roma groups living in poverty, which tried to represent their social problems as a violation of national law. The majority of their complaints do not constitute the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. to a national law governed by law. The data also show that nationalities in the traditional sense, whose legal capacity, social embeddedness and acceptance are higher, rarely initiate proceedings. Their requests are limited to issuing a resolution on national cultural and municipal rights. The report treats as a well-known fact that the majority of Roma municipalities are characterised by their personal dependence on the management of the local government. Here we are thinking of public employment and welfare benefits. In this way, enforcement is limited. In other nationalities, it is more likely to be dependent on local support, not to mention that the quality of the personal and material conditions of the operation is determined by the local government. More emphasis should be placed on combating discrimination, even though few procedures have been launched. It is not only in the case of Gypsy that we can talk about discrimination based on true ethnic origin, because belonging to a nationality in social life situations usually causes negative emotions in actors. True, these cases are typically not presented to any official forums. We can assess the activities of the Fundamental Rights Commissioner in the area of changes in legislation and its results as being good. As an independent subject in education, we consider it a significant step forward to teach nationality in the language of nationality, as required by the new principles, which is key to the transfer of culture, history and traditions of nationality. Parents receive significant help in reporting the needs for ethnic education with the involvement of local authorities. The amendment of the National Public Education Act requires the agreement of the local minority self-government not only in relation to the mandate of the head or the revocation of his mandate, but also in order to reach a related decision. As a negative, the amendment removes the right of agreement between the national authorities regarding the approval of the text of the public education institution and its pedagogical programme. The adoption of these documents was transferred from its maintenance powers to the school's decisions. We agree with the ombudsman's view that there was therefore no reason to abolish the right to vote on this issue on the grounds of the professionalism of the decision. In relation to the operation of the minority self-government system, we share the statement of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights that municipal rights can actually be exercised if the State provides for organisational, functional and budgetary autonomy with institutional guarantees. We can conclude that, in practice, the principle of public law does not apply that local government and municipal minority self-government may appear as equal parties. [[Loránt Violin will replace Erzsébet Schmuck in the notary seat.]] The co-operation agreement enforced by law, which creates conditions for operation, is in most cases formal and often fulfilled until the minimum mandatory service is reached. We agree with the Ombudsman's findings on the ex post use of census data. Despite repeated protests and initiatives by national communities, sensitive data has been regularly used by the legislator to achieve some political goal. We continue to argue that the basis for the election of national authorities should be belonging to the non-mandatory nationality during the census, which has a negative impact on some ethnic communities over electoral cycles, since it was not known that these data would be used for election purposes. We note that we do not consider the solution to the problem to be that the law on the rights of nationalities reduced the 30 people originally required for the establishment of the minority municipal elections to 25 persons. National self-government must also provide economic funds, which have also been reduced by government policy taking into account census data for 2013. [[12.50]] As a joint opinion, the future of nationality depends on the effectiveness of national education. We look forward to the findings of the 2003 national minority education study on the right to nationality education and language in relation to high-school education and the extent to which legal requirements can be applied in practice. We consider it important to point out that, in the reporting period, on the basis of ombudsmanial measures, the EMMI has concluded a contract with the ELTE Foreign Language Training Centre, and, under the agreement, the institution has undertaken, with the deadline of March 2014, to grant a public-accredited examination of the Bulgarian, Polish, Armenian, Ruthenian and Ukrainian languages, to submit it to the Language Examination Accreditation Centre, and at least once a year after accreditation, to announce the possibility of language examination and to conduct language examination. I am pleased to report that this has happened, and it is possible to apply for a language exam from the autumn of 2014. The application of nationality language rights in public life is very mixed. The legislative environment is indeed an opportunity to use the mother tongue, but it is almost impossible for individual procedures because of the composition of the staff of the agencies. For years, we have initiated that local authorities should take into account nationality origin and language skills in the selection of rapporteurs responsible for dealing with ethnic matters, but this remains only at the level of demand. The protection of nationality rights cannot be imagined without appropriate legal institutions. According to the Fundamental Law, the Deputy Commissioner for National Rights is responsible for protecting the rights of nationalities living in Hungary. In addition to the provisions of Article 30 of the Fundamental Law, the provisions of the Act on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the additional detailed rules, the leeway of the Deputy Commissioner, are laid down in Article 3 of the Act on Fundamental Rights. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 defines in detail. According to this, the Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, who protects the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, monitors the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, regularly informs the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights about the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, draws the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights' attention to the threat of violations affecting a larger group of natural persons, proposes to initiate proceedings, assists the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights, recommends that the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights contact the Constitutional Court. It is clear from the regulation that the performance of the task requires close cooperation between the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Commissioners for National Rights. It was found that this was not fully achieved during the period under investigation. The reform of the legal institution in 2012 did not help to complete the legal protection, as the legislator did not fully resolve the personal issues. The new model was introduced before the end of the Ombudsman's mandate. Dr. Ernő Kállai decided to stay, but the professional staff who helped him fell, lost his organisational autonomy, and did his work until September 24, 2013. On seven occasions, the deputy initiated a special target examination, but the Commissioner did not support the independent investigation and did not include it in his work plan. We hope that a new period has started with the end of the deputy Ombudsman's mandate and that, as the personal conditions change, the protection of nationality rights has been replaced. The minority self-governments in Hungary were also consulted before the election of the Deputy Ombudsman, which took place on 16 October 2013. We hope that, after the transitional period, the Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights really deserves the title of the defender of national rights. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary entitled "The activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies', B/101. The Committee recommends that the report be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-19-54	Thank you very much for the speech by Mrs Giricz Vera Ruthenian minority advocate. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, keynote speakers will be held. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-55	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Commissioner and dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2011 CXI on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Law 40. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, Dr. László Székely submitted to Parliament a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2013. The Justice Committee, as Mr President mentioned, discussed the report at its meeting on 10 March 2015 and supported its adoption. In the course of the hearing, the Committee shall adopt the Act on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights 40. § 2 has examined the fulfilment of the requirements of paragraph 2 of this Article, i.e. whether the report presents the fundamental rights protection activities of the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights, the rights of children, the interests of future generations, the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, and the most vulnerable social groups, with special regard to the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. On this basis, the Judicial Committee shall be composed of B/101. Report No 84 of HSZ. In a proposal for a decision submitted pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the Parliament shall be recommended to accept it. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that, on the basis of the report before us, the Committee could conclude that the technical objectives of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates for 2013 have been achieved. This year is particularly successful, because, as we have heard from the Commissioner's report, more than 2,500 cases have been investigated compared to the previous year, and so we can say that 2013 has indeed performed well, despite the year of introduction, and the new public-law situation in which the status of the new Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputy was determined was also fine. As stated in the report, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights paid continuous and increased attention to the five priority areas of investigation in line with the relevant provision and spirit of the Obmudsman Act in 2013. That's what I'd like to say in a few sentences. The protection of children's rights has become the first priority of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act states that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights will pay particular attention to the protection of children's rights in the course of his activities, in particular by carrying out own-initiative procedures. [[13.00]] In the traditional ombudsman's toolbox, the Commissioner investigates any abuse of the constitutional rights of children that he is aware of and may initiate general or specific measures to remedy them. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much appreciate that the protection of national rights also has a strong role to play in the priority tasks, given the nature of the area of law, as it is also linked to other priority tasks, so that the priority protection of children's rights and the obligation to combat the disadvantage of Roma children outside their own faults are significantly overlapd. It is very good to see that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has fulfilled his priority task of protecting national minority rights in a targeted and specific way, but the protection of the area has also been emphasised in his own own investigations. It is important to note that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights considers it a fundamental right to be maladministration if state measures to ensure equal opportunities for groups in the exercise of their rights are missing or not effective. In its own-initiative proceedings, the Ombudsman also treats the systemic disadvantage of the Roma community as a matter of nationality. One of the features of the protection of the fundamental rights of nationality is the repeated liability of the institution, resulting from the fact that the Fundamental Law entrusts the type of protection of fundamental rights as an ombudsman to the Commissioner of fundamental rights in general, while naming deputy Commissioners in two sub-areas, as regards fundamental rights of nationality and the environment. Article XXIX of the Fundamental Law It also interprets the right of national minorities to self-government as a fundamental right. According to the Ombudsman, municipal rights can actually be exercised if the State provides for organisational, functional and budgetary autonomy with institutional guarantees. In 2013, the inquiries by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights concerning national minority self-governments were mainly related to the internal controls of the national authorities, changes in legislation, cooperation between local and local minority self-governments. At the meeting of the Judicial Committee, Jobbik tried to draw attention to shortcomings in the Ombudsman's report. I would like to highlight the phenomenon of unauthorized patrol, which Jobbik wants to present as an act to be explicitly supported, as an example to be followed. The reality, on the other hand, is what the report, by the way, rightly mentions that, in a democratic rule of law, the monopoly on law enforcement belongs to the State. Observations referring to the right of self-defense, but illegally carried out, patrolling, sightseeing, calling into question the state monopoly on maintaining public security, seriously violating public confidence in judicial bodies and thus ultimately endangering the rule of law. By their intimidating and destructive nature, these activities also violate human dignity. According to the report, natural resources, in particular land, forests and water resources, biodiversity, indigenous plant and animal species, as well as cultural values, are a common heritage of the nation. The Fundamental Law makes their protection, maintenance and preservation for future generations an obligation for the state and everyone, therefore forming one of the priority areas of investigation of the report. I am pleased that the ombudsman's office can also have success with regard to forest protection, land protection, protection of landscape heritage. One of the most important areas of the Ombudsman is the performance of tasks related to the protection of the rights of those in need and of vulnerable people. In addition to the social approach, as mentioned in the report, the emphasis is on the purely fundamental rights argument, so that the Ombudsman's role in this sphere is often coordinating and sometimes mediation and mediation. The Ombudsperson Act itself requires special attention from the current Commissioner for all social groups in need and at risk, in particular by highlighting the protection of people with disabilities. It is very good to see that the Ombudsman's Office pays particular attention to the increased protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, On the basis of the report and the experience of the last year, I dare say that the Commissioner and his alternates of fundamental rights carry out their duties, covering all the essential aspects of their accounts. By entrusting two alternates of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights from the end of 2013, the management of the two fields of responsibility for which they have special responsibilities has been demonstrated to carry out their work in full agreement and with greater attention to the fields of expertise. In view of this, I would like to ask you to support the adoption of this report, and I would like to thank the Commissioner and his colleagues once again for the work they have done. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly and warmly welcome my fellow Members, the Commissioner and, in particular, my fellow Members named Alexander, József and Benedict. Happy birthday to them. [[Intercoms: Thank you very much!]] The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman. It wasn't a long time ago, it was May. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-03-19-57	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the word and for everything else. Dear Parliament, Mr Ombudsperson, I would like to start by saying that both Mr Máté Szabó and Mr László Székely considered the activities of the Ombudsman to be positive, worthy of support, and we consider it to be the case now. This is true of the account. I would stick to the generalities, but Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, László Teleki, Nándor Gúr and Lajos Korózs will discuss the details, so please listen to them as well. In the present case, since we have no reason to comment on political bias such as the Attorney General, I must even point out that we did not even consider this to be a trace in the course of the Ombudsman's activities and his deputies, so we can, for my part, be a little shorter than I was at the time. In addition, we made our comments in relatively detailed terms at the committee meeting, and I would like to give a summary of this at the plenary session. [[13.10]] There I said - and here I was a little surprised to hear from my fellow Member, Zoltán Demeter - that one of the most serious praises about ombudsmanship is the criticism of government parties. My fellow Member, Ferenc Papcsák, did this then, and I would have expected this from my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, who did not say anything about it. He didn't say anything, and I think that in the event that Fidesz likes this ombudsman's report, he doesn't like or know or read the Ombudsman's report. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, which, by the way, you have vehemently defended and represented - but my fellow Members will speak more about it - has been critical. I think - once again - this is one of the greatest praises for a public body whose task, in terms of the system of brakes and balances, is to criticize not only the public administration but also the government, and to be a certain counterweight to government measures or administrative operations. What I can say is that if I wish to make a summary of the Ombudsman's activity, the Ombudsman and his deputies did their job. They did their job and did their job by focusing on all these essential matters, expressing their views on substantive matters with a critical attitude. I would also like to highlight, and that is all right, that sometimes this has come into contact with our position, and sometimes it has not met our position, but it is appropriate. My fellow Members very much like to highlight it at this time, although we are already a year or two past the actuality of this, but if you do so, I will also do the extraordinary success of the structure. Ladies and gentlemen, it can be said that this structure, which is already an ombudsman, has undergone a relatively minor change, let us say, compared to the Constitutional Court, especially with regard to the nomination procedure, I can refer here, for example, to the 70-page analysis that has now been published, which has virtually shown that the Constitutional Court has become a virtual minister of the governing parties and the government. There is a constitutional judge who has made a decision that pleases the government 100 percent, not one, but two of them, but the others do not miss 80-90 percent of that much. So that's not a successful structure in my view. These were relatively minor changes compared to this. Here the autonomy of the two and then three deputies has ceased, and there is a main ombudsman in the current system, whose subordinates and subordinates are in fact - of course I know this is not entirely true in relation to the election and in other respects - it can be said in scale that his subordinates are the deputies. We said it could be a model, it could be a model. The criticism was not primarily about this, but about eliminating the independence of the Data Protection Commissioner, but, as I said at the committee meeting, this debate does not belong here, but to the time when it will be or was about the accounts of the President of the Data Protection Office. We can tell you that the smaller the change, the smaller the damage you caused. However, we can also highlight, and this was also mentioned at the committee meeting, that the fact that the Office can operate in this way is not primarily ensured by the structure, but by the excellent human and professional relationship between the Ombudsman and his alternates. This should, of course, be seen as a positive in itself, especially when, in our view, this structure does not necessarily guarantee this, and if we are talking about structural issues, I think that good functioning should be ensured by the structure itself, not by the positive relationship of the actors working in that structure, and that is what this is all about. I wonder whether or not - I hope this will happen as soon as possible - whether the structure will still stand up if there is a conflict between a next Commissioner or a subsequent Commissioner and his deputies. I already have serious reservations there. The other - and let us move past the structural issues here, because this report is only touchingly affected or only a little bit affected - is that it can be seen from the report and also from the ombudsman's operation that both the office and the Ombudsman personally maintain excellent and close relations with civil society representatives. I also highlighted this at the committee meeting, and I would like to point out that we consider this to be really important and important, because perhaps this office is most responsible for ensuring contacts with social organisations, so that the views and knowledge of social organisations are integrated into the state's operation by the Ombudsman and his staff. We therefore continue to ask the Ombudsman to maintain this good habit, both he and his deputies. The other thing I would like to point out is that the Ombudsman has also retained the practice of using his predecessor's license to turn to the Constitutional Court if necessary. Some would be entitled to do so, but they do not, thank God, by the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights. It is clear that you have limited the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court to such an extent that virtually hardly anyone can live with that right today. Public announcements, submissions, actio popularis have been terminated, Members' right to request the subsequent rule of law of the Constitutional Court has been abolished. This entitlement was tied to a quarter of the Members, knowing that this was still the case in the previous term, that this was unfortunate for the opposition, but in the previous one you knew that this was the case - that no parliamentary faction has a one-quarter representation here in the Parliament, they can only appeal to the Constitutional Court if two factions together do this, whose principles are very far apart in a subtle way, their understanding is very far apart, so cooperation can be occasional, but not often. You knew this precisely when this set of rules was established, and unfortunately, the same is the case now. Therefore, I think it is very important that the Ombudsman makes use of this right, because today I can say that he is the only one who is entitled and wants to take advantage of it. Ladies and gentlemen, There is one thing that I would like to mention in the speaker's speech, that many, and the Ombudsman, are among them, and that his deputies are among them, who have opposed and mentioned that the government is not complying with its obligation to negotiate, that it is late or does not send at all the legislative proposals which would otherwise have to be sent by law for prior consultation. The President of the Republic has now not signed one of the laws for this reason, but sent them back to Parliament for consideration, because the government has repeatedly failed to agree. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has once repealed legislation for unconstitutionality because it found in the Church Act procedural errors affecting constitutionality, including, among others, the obligation to negotiate, whether externally or internally, the obligation to negotiate with the opposition, the Members. Therefore, addressed to the pro-government representatives, of whom, as I see it, there are only two in this Chamber, not many in the debate. [[Dr. András Schiffer: There are no government members in there!]] There aren't any members of the government in the Parliament's meeting room, so maybe they'll read the minutes, maybe finish this kind of legislation. [[13.20]] Several people have asked you, there is virtually no public-law dignity who has not objected to this practice, including the opposition, of course, in the same way, we have done so many times. To sum up and once again, I say at the level of generalities: on the basis of these considerations, the MSZP Group is pleased to support and accept the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, and the details, as I have said, will be addressed by my fellow Members. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-19-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Lajos Kepli. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Commissioner, Ladies and gentlemen, At the committee meeting, my fellow Members have already expressed their views on a number of areas of the report. I will only talk about these in a touching manner, since my fellow Members, István Apáti and István Szávay, touched them in detail at committee meetings. What is closer to me and my own area of expertise, I would like to better analyse the aspects of the report relating to sustainable development and environmental protection. In relation to fundamental rights, the rights of prisoners were mentioned at the committee meeting. My fellow Member, Mr István Apáti, spoke about the maladministration. Rather, he spoke of things that might have been missing from the report, missed what we thought was a deficiency. Thus, the way in which maladministration can be eliminated is that often prisoners, multiple repeat criminals, have better rights as convicts than their free but poor fellow citizens. The long-standing principle of Jobbik about self-sustaining prisons, where all prisoners create their own costs of supporting it, has also been emphasised. In the present situation, according to the current circumstances, the socialization that these multiple-convicted people in prison are taking on after five to ten years in prison leads to the regeneration of crime. This is an important problem that is relevant to the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, yet we raise again and again outside the Parliament and the Parliament that something must be done about this problem, because public security and the right to public security, the right to physical integrity and life are also affected by it, by the situation of crime and public security. With regard to the protection of life, we also stressed that we should always remember that, when we talk about the protection of life, we also remember positions and resolutions on the protection of fetal life, as Hungarian society has been running out of weight since 1980--81; therefore, resolutions on the protection of fetal life, abortion, positions are a matter of national strategy from a demographic point of view and, of course, the right to human life. This should certainly be more dealt with by the Hungarian Parliament, but also by the Ombudsman's Office, with regard to chapters or resolutions on the protection of life. Even the right to property has been mentioned. Again, this is only partly linked to criminal law and public security as to how to preserve the right to property. I wouldn't comment on it right now. Perhaps what was still a critical part of what was said at the committee's meeting is the right to human health, which is severely impaired in Hungary due to the situation in the health sector, whether we are talking about long waiting lists or about the provision of health institutions, whether it is equipped with tools or with professionals. This all affects the right of Hungarian society and Hungarian people to basic health. Not all citizens of society get the right to health in the same way, or have access to it in the same way, because those who have the right financial situation and can pay for the necessary tests in private clinics, private clinics, private doctors, can get a life-saving intervention or a diagnostic test almost immediately or even the next day, while others may take months, half a year, which often makes it fatal and irreversible in the event of an incurable disease, so it affects not only the right to health but also the right to human life and thus seriously harms the various social groups. My fellow Member, István Apáti, also spoke about the right to turn to the Constitutional Court. My fellow Member, Gergely Bárándy, has just spoken about this. The legislation was very devious and diabolical, and it was clearly very logically invented on the part of the current pro-government Fidesz, so that a quarter of the Members would be the number required to sign a representative to turn to the Constitutional Court. In other words, opposition parties were condemned to co-operate as a coercion, with huge divides in disagreement, and they knew that this cooperation and coordination would not come together very, very much. My fellow Member, István Szávay, said his concerns about nationality rights in his field at the committee meeting, which I would like to repeat in just a few sentences. One of the important problems is obviously the issue of Roma minority and nationality. He suggested, at the committee meeting, how to draw ethnic education on the Roma minority, how discriminatory that would be, and how much it would be in line with the government's policy and intentions. Obviously, Jobbik's view and position in this case are very different from that of the ruling party in many cases. However, we must not forget that the goal of the Jobbik Hungary Movement is to resolve the situation - often even with radical words - and, of course, the peaceful coexistence of Gypsy and Hungarian society for the joint prosperity of all Gypsy and Hungarian people. This is not enough to stress, because we get accusations about this many times, and I personally reject it on a regular basis if the party is accused of racism in relation to the problem, as has been said in various comments and shouting in the committee meeting. Let us move on to complement Deputy Commissioner Marcel Szabó in the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights at the centre of the speaker's speech and to the areas he is concerned with, of which the opinion of the national water strategy is perhaps one of the fundamental or strategic issues. For Hungary, it is vital that the right to access healthy drinking water is guaranteed to everyone and that the issue of water and water management is finally resolved. There are also a number of criticisms in this regard, either in relation to repressing thermal water or in relation to the regulation of flood protection issues. But the issue of drinking water is also found to be the right of every person to a certain amount of water. Basically, about 50 litres of water should be available to all Hungarian citizens, regardless of their social situation, regardless of any other circumstances, whether they can afford it. In this regard, Jobbik had a proposal earlier on, which was about a water quota, and we suggested that the amount of water needed for everyday life, healthy and decent human life, should be available to everyone free of charge. [[13.30]] Of course, this - unfortunately I must say, of course - has not been adopted by the governing parties. It is also important in relation to flood protection that water management remains basically determined by the rapid discharge of water from the territory of the country, which is extremely important in the case of a large flood wave. At the same time, we have often passed over the other side of the horse in a more droughtful summer, when we found that, especially because of the Danube-Tisza and the desiccation of the sandback, huge areas have become water scarcity and drought, and agriculture has suffered enormous damage. Improving water retention, although included in the report, is still not strong enough, perhaps one of the most strategic issues. There is also a conflict between the parliamentary parties as to whether it is possible to build hydroelectric power plants, water staircases or not, with degree management or the construction of irrigation channels or in other ways, but the fact is that our water retention capacity must be increased, because it can have serious effects on the country, Hungary, the area of the Carpathian Basin, thanks to climate change, within decades. This must be an extremely important issue in the field of water management. And then I will move on, if I have already talked about irrigation, to another critical problem concerning the protection of agricultural land, where the legislative anomalies in this regard should also be highlighted much more. At present, the protection of agricultural land is not properly protected by legislation, and the Hungarian soil is severely destroyed, and the government is doing nothing about this destruction. It is mentioned in the report that we destroy soil 17 times as fast as it can regenerate, this is extremely negative news or extremely bad situation. Moreover, even the quality of our existing soils is gradually deteriorating, where we eviscerate and pollute it with chemicals. In other places, investments are used to make land disappear so that later the soil, the soil, is not used, but simply destroyed and destroyed. This is extremely important for Hungary's survival as a basic agricultural and agricultural country. And, by the way, one of the biggest problems in the world is the insufficient amount of land. In my speech to the ombudsman or deputy ombudsman of future generations, I highlighted these as perhaps the most important elements, since Article P of the Fundamental Law states that natural resources, land, forests, biodiversity, water resources are also protected as a national heritage, but this protection is not seen in everyday life. And while it is water, let me mention a problem that has been unsolved for Hungary for 18 years, and that affects the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, László Székely, in particular, because he has performed the tasks related to the settlement of the Hague judgment on the Bős-Nagymaros water escape, both under the first Orbán government and under the second Orbán government, which we have not seen any progress in the past 18 years, at least certainly not a solution. There have been constant discussions with the Slovak party, while the Slovak party, thanking you very much, is doing well, profiting from the benefits of the hydroelectric power plant in Bős, Hungary has only suffered environmental damage, the water supply of the Szigetköz has not been properly resolved - the bottom threshold still serves as the biggest solution, which prevents water, but does not solve the right water supply - it has not been possible to agree with the Slovak party on this. The right of intersects to a basic, healthy environment and water is also being undermined. And a long-term solution is not yet outlined, there are all kinds of replacement solutions in the previous cycle, or at least plans on how to fix the water supply of the Szigetköz. This is a very, very important strategic issue as to how Hungary can achieve results in the following negotiations with the Slovak party. This is a wound, both in international law and in terms of sustainability, which is now, once again, 18 years ago, or, if it is based on the date of the diversion, then for 23 years, one of Hungary's unresolved problems, which is almost unprecedented in relation to the International Court of Justice in Hague, so that no solution can be found after a judgment. In the ordinary speech, we will also present our further comments and concerns on the report. In summary, my fellow Members at the committee's meeting indicated that we will not be able to support the adoption of the report, mainly because of the shortcomings, and not primarily because of the shortcomings related to sustainability, but because of other fundamental rights. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-19-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Head speaker for the LMP Group, Mr András Schiffer Group Leader. Here you go.
u2015-03-19-61	Thank you. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I am pleased to see that the number of Fidesz fractions multiplied in the Ombudsman's annual report by a great deal by my turn. The pain is that some of the KDNPs are not even members of this plenary right now. We are discussing the 2013 report, and I think that the date should not be passed without saying a word. The law requires that Parliament discuss this report in the year of submission. There was an initiative in the House Committee last year that, over the last ten to fifteen years, the reports that the Parliament could not discuss in time were so concentrated that the Parliament would authorise the committees to fulfil this duty. As a single party, LMP consistently represents that this is not okay. In the institutions where the law or, where applicable, the Fundamental Law itself requires that Parliament, for example, account be taken of the organisations established by the body of Parliament, the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors or Parliament, such as the media institutions, there is a guarantee that the report will be made at the plenary session of the Parliament, and that the plenary session will vote on it not sometime after ten years, and not even two years later, but as otherwise required by the Fundamental Law or other laws. Unfortunately, this is not the case here either, and the Ombudsman's office is not responsible, of course, but this report actually has a function if it takes place in accordance with constitutional provisions, in the year of submission. There have been so many other events since then, there has been a change of ombudsman in 2013, so the optics of the 2013 ombudsman's activities are quite different today, that in many respects this is losing the function of the whole debate. Dear Parliament, Before I go into the details of the report, there are two elements that specifically frame the changed Ombudsman's system. One of them. In the constitutional debate, too, the LMP has always expressed the view that the Szakombudsman regime should not only be maintained, but that it should be refined further, so that there should be more specific Commissioners. For example, because the last few weeks have shown how much it would have been necessary for Hungary to have an ombudsman for consumer protection in the last ten years; perhaps a number of depositors would still be with their money today, perhaps some foreign exchange credit victims could still be living in their apartment today if there was a consumer Ombudsman in Hungary ten years ago. He is not responsible for consumer protection delegated to a government body, but for an ombudsman independent of the current government. However, I could also say that we would be much more advanced if, for example, there was a special Commissioner for Gender Equality, Women's Rights or the Protection of Children's Rights. It is simply that in countries where there is a very structured szakmudsmani system, the legislator came to this because, in the case that there is a separate Consumer Ombudsman, there is, say, a Commissioner for Police Affairs, there is, say, a gender equality ombudsman, then the areas that are most exposed to the infringement, see, for example, the area of financial consumer protection, come to the surface much sooner and much more effectively, let us say, the frauds of different financial institutions and brokerage houses, as in the case of such a megaombudsman institution, which really has to deal with everything at once. [[13.40]] So it is precisely the sensitization that takes a lot of countries to have a structured szakmudsmani system and not to be a piece of ombudsman under whom they are assigned, such as those responsible. The other fundamental constitutionality debate we had in connection with the reorganization of the system was about the government side and with the two-thirds majority about the so-called popular institution of the actio, which my colleague Bárándy had already talked about, namely: until the system of national cynicism, all Hungarian citizens had access to the Constitutional Court as a last resort under the right of subject. Compared to this, the centralized democracy that Viktor Orbán created with the Basic Law has taken away the right from the people to visit the Constitutional Court as their last refuge, and - in part, as Lajos Kepli, Gergely Bárándy, has already touched on it - with a cynical solution, the Ombudsman requires a quarter of the Members and is referred to as an alternative. I would like to underline this because from the moment the two-thirds majority deprived the Hungarian people of the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman's responsibility in this respect has increased. It is important to emphasise this because what we have criticism of the work of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, who is already in place in the smaller part of 2013, is the view: we see that the current Ombudsman is only turning to the Constitutional Court if, at least, it is likely that the motion will succeed; we believe that this is a completely wrong view of the role. In the event that the Hungarian people do not have the right to go to the Constitutional Court at any time, if their rights are violated by the power forgotten about themselves, the Ombudsman must not necessarily turn to the Constitutional Court because he can have one more professional success in front of the board, but, among other things, to raise certain problems. So we have our debate on what this right is now given to the Ombudsman by the Fundamental Law, and we do not consider it possible for the Ombudsman to turn to the Constitutional Court only if the motion is very well founded - based on the current practice of the Constitutional Court - but also if he is not quite sure of the success professionally, especially if he knows the practice of the current body, but the gesture in itself is the move to bring a particular problem to the Constitutional Court in this system, at least to help with what an ombudsman's mission everywhere in the world is: it raises, puts out on the table problems, violations that would otherwise be unsound without an effective ombudsman. This is also the point of the ombudsman's institution not to remain hidden from violations, and here in the Hungarian system, turning to the Constitutional Court is one of the means to do so. As far as the subject is concerned. In 2013, there were three main areas that I think are worth looking at. On the one hand, in 2013 the full redeployment and destruction of the social rule of law, in this respect there were several courageous initiatives of the Ombudsman. One of the first actions of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, Székely, was the motion for the control of the Constitutional Court of Social Funeral, which puts families in a very humiliating position that are otherwise in need, but in the same way, the ombudsman's office also acted against homeless criminalisation. It is important to stress, however, that the constitutionalisation of the social security system, which has taken place in the Fundamental Law, also urges the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights to monitor the fact that, by the way, the failure of the social care system - for example, that from 1 January of this year virtually all responsibility has been imposed on the municipalities, in many cases, on small municipalities in a completely impossible situation - in everyday life, on what prospects, on what living difficulties, on what very long-awaited misery it leads. So the story did not stop in 2013 - regardless of whether we are talking about 2013 - if you like, it is now beginning to grow, and the fact is that from 1 January all the responsibilities are with the local authorities, it makes the Ombudsman's responsibility even greater. This may not be about major political events; it may not be about stories that the commercial media or the tabloid press will tell on the front page tomorrow, but about cases that, on the other hand, talk about the daily misery of people, growing children. The point is that in growing areas in the country, it is virtually unthinkable that families find a safe livelihood and that the handholds that people and generations have thought for decades have disappeared. Another important issue is the fundamental rights debate on the new civil code when it comes to 2013. At that time, the LMP turned to the Ombudsman at that time. There has also been a surprisingly progressive decision made by the Constitutional Court the other day, not only on the part of the Ombudsman's Office, but also at some point - I am thinking of the interpretation of the right to image - but I would like to point out that this will be a constantly aching wound, where the limits of the category of public actors are until the legislator, Parliament, in the civil code, corrects this. After all, we are not just talking about politicians: there are so-called celebrities, and there are citizens who simply participate in a public event, they are there, various social self-organizations or the inner life of condominiums. How do we grasp the concept of a public figure? How do we ensure the right to political participation without disproportionately violating the right of personality, the right to privacy? As regards the right to a healthy environment, the rights of future generations, there have been a number of courageous initiatives; I am thinking here of the ombudsman's speech on the Kishantos scandal, on the proposals in Kishantos or on the Normafa law on the protection of Natura 2000. However, here I would like to draw attention to the fact that Professor Sólyom and the Defence Association did not, by accident, initiate the institution of the Ombudsman of future generations, with which Hungary took a pioneering role in the development of European law. We do not take the initiative by accident that there is a need for an ombudsman of future generations at European level. It is simply not just about protecting a fundamental right, it is not about environmental protection; it is about the future generations of basic natural resources that my colleague Kepli has been talking about here, whether they can enjoy living in the Carpathian Basin. Here, however, there are painful shortcomings; I am thinking of the fact that the destruction of the environment and nature protection institution system is a violation of fundamental rights when it comes to Article 28/1994. We are thinking of a decision of the Constitutional Court. My fellow Member, Mr Demeter, may be pleased with what is around the farmland; I think that it is important for those who have important natural values to keep the land in use of local communities to think of the fact that Fidesz, the Ripper family and other families have benefited from it again. It's just that you're making a land-robbery law here, and here's the second act: you put your dirty paws on nature reserves, you take them out from under the national parks. [[Lajos Korózs: Hortobágy National Park is over!]] and the next step will be - whatever I bet with my fellow Member Demeter - to make available land that is still managed by the NFA today. They're trying to steal our natural assets. And, of course, what my fellow Member Kepli has also mentioned - especially the world water day - is coming - is that there is much more to be done for the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in the matter of water resources and water conservation. I am thinking that if the unscrupulous exploitation of natural values is also taking place, the right to healthy drinking water will be an illusion in Hungary, a country where there is still a good half-county area in Békés, where there is virtually no healthy drinking water. [[13.50]] And, yes, initiatives could also be taken, for example, in relation to the dissemination of degrees of management, in order to improve water retention capacity. I would argue with my fellow Member Kepli that a party must decide whether to build a water escape to the Danube or to support Cape Management. I can't do both. The two of them are mutually exclusive. So if we do not take urgent action on climate, water and land, we will practically consume the natural resources on which to build a living in the Carpathian Basin in a decade or two. The farmland is now particularly endangered, because it is visible that well-defined economic interest groups want to put their paws on the land fortune and there they want to introduce large-scale farming that results in the destruction of our natural values. All we have to do is get the news from today's news about what's happening on Hortobágy. I would like to urge the deputy responsible for future generations' affairs and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights to raise his voice hard in the matter of both the destruction of the natural and environmental organisation system and the traipsing of the land fortune, the land heist, the expropriation and sale of natural assets, to turn to the Constitutional Court, no matter what success he can expect or cannot expect, simply to put it on the table: an irresponsible legislative work, an irresponsible government, will live up to the future of future generations. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-19-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As no independent Members have applied for a speech, a two-minute speech is possible. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-63	I would just like to say to my fellow Member, Mr András Schiffer, Mr Group leader, that, as in the debate on renewable energy versus nuclear energy, I do not agree with the fact that one excludes the other. There are many rivers and rivers of different nature in Hungary. Just because you're using one of them doesn't mean you can't take it easy on the other. But what I'm saying is, let's not argue about this, we're persuasive. Jobbik is of the opinion that Hungary's water retention capacity needs to be drastically improved. We can even agree with the LMP on this, but we can't agree on whether to use our domestic waters for energy production. But let us take a look at what the government has done to this effect over the last decades, to be more precise, since they have been on the government, and we are looking at the decades that have passed since the previous governments, even since the change of regime. He practically destroyed the water industry, destroyed water management, did nothing to improve our water retention capacity, and the situation is getting worse. Lucky for us - for whom luck is one of the source of the problems - that we have recently had more rainy years and summers have been relatively rainy, at least the last summer has been relatively rainy, so we have had to face the negative problem, the lack of water, the drought in less places and less areas. Now, the problem was the internal water. But a good water management or good water management strategy solves both issues at the same time, and not only is it necessary to focus on increasing dams, leading out the waters as quickly as possible. I think that all parties should come to an agreement. Jobbik is on the point of reason, we can be convinced which is the right solution, and we are open to dialogue on this issue. [[In the notary seat, Erzsébet Schmuck is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2015-03-19-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker was Mr András Schiffer. Here you go.
u2015-03-19-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights should send the Regional Administration Act sent back by the Head of State with a political veto to the Constitutional Court immediately after its publication, as it represents a step backwards from the level already achieved in nature conservation, in such a way as to destroy water, environment and nature conservation management - one. Secondly, it is also necessary to do the same with the Bajnai 2006 priority investment law, which the current government has developed, which removes precisely the investments with the greatest environmental burden from the Community's control and makes it impossible for citizens to participate in such cases. I would like to clarify one thing with my fellow Member Kepli. The LMP is not of the opinion that hydropower should not be used. Yes, you can. It just doesn't matter where. In our view, all renewable energy sources have a place, including hydropower where the ecosystem is not destroyed. We've got a problem, we've got a dispute with the flat water hydroelectric plants. I said to the flat-water hydroelectric power plant that if Jobbik is thinking in a flat-water hydroelectric power plant, for example, he should give up promoting Cape Management. That's all I was talking about. I would also like to say, in relation to the Ptk., that in the case of vehicles carrying different pollutants, we have contested the small extent of the pledge and that the Ptk. There is no liability for unforeseen damage under the current compensation chapter. The Ombudsman of that time refused to refer him to the Constitutional Court for that reason. I would suggest that the ombudsman's office reconsider. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-19-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. We will continue with the proper speeches. Mr Lajos Korózs is next from the MSZP Group. Is your microphone up? [[Lajos Korózs: Yes, I was prepared, Mr President.]] He's upstairs, he's fine. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2015-03-19-67	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, I would like to deal with the only element of the ombudsman's report, the homeless case. The situation is a bit unfortunate, because the Ombudsman has brought here a very thorough report, but the government is not represented on this agenda. I would like to put my wording in the direction of the government in the first place. This is unfortunate because one of the very important institutions in the fight against infringements is the ombudsman's organisation, an extremely important element of the rule of law, and I think that in recent years, knowing all the activities of the ombudsman's office, it is only with the greatest recognition that it is possible to talk about their work. I brought up homelessness because being homeless, being homeless, is a very serious social problem. And I think that for those people who are in the most vulnerable situation, just that state protection is some kind of guarantee. In the event that fundamental rights are violated, the Ombudsman must act. When society needs to look for ways out, and in this the civil sector is united as one, and the state whose duty it is to provide protection goes against it, then every organisation must raise its voice. And when civilians are calling for the reintegration of homeless people into society and the local powers are facing it, then everyone must raise their voices against it. I would like to draw a quote from the ombudsman's report. This is a very important statement, which says: "The rapid and simple elimination of homelessness, the state's efforts to make the homeless disappear, and to tidy up, call into question the functioning of the rule of law mechanisms, since they are not fighting the problem, but against the problematic people. Homeless people are a layer of poor enforcement ability that is extremely vulnerable to any limitation of rights. The life-style use of the public domain has introduced a new terminology, creating the status of homelessness, the criminalization of status. I don't think there's a need to explain this in any particular way. It's clear to everyone what's going on. Another aspect I would like to mention in relation to homelessness, which is also mentioned in the Ombudsman's report, is the situation with regard to housing mafias. An awful lot of complaints come to Members of Parliament, regardless of party standing, when tricky housing is the victim of primarily old people, and this is how they lose the shelter above their heads. The story is well known when the court subsequently even awarded compensation to a man who lost his home, who was taken from his property in a tricky way, and in the end even led his address report out of the IT system in the document office. The unlucky man can't get his own money because the people who played him and took his property piled up a mortgage that he couldn't be covered by the compensation he was granted. [[14.00]] The Vác story is very important, and I also have to highlight it from the report, when unfortunately, colleagues working in homeless care have to make decisions, they have to decide for themselves whether a needy person can enter a night shelter or a homeless shelter, simply because there is not enough room. I think that when there is a crisis, it is not in any case that we should ask how many beds there are, but that we should ask which organization has a dog's duty to care for people in danger. I have wronged it for years, and I have also voiced it when funds and resources were taken out of homeless care, and I also disapproved of the fact that the Ministry had made ex post accounts for the financing of crisis situations. Dear Friends! Once it is minus 10 or 20 degrees in November, the costs of this should be given in advance to homeless organisations, as it has been in this country for decades, and not in the spring of the following year. Because a large proportion of the organisations involved in homelessness do not have enough money to finance homelessness in advance. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to one thing. On the Internet, in the last few days, there's been an VIII. district mayor's and mayor's letter, which is about responding to a written question from a Member, to the fact that they see that the path out of homelessness can be resolved primarily with permanent housing, cooperation with civilians is essential, and ways out of homelessness should be sought together. It would be nice if you could finally acknowledge that at government level. But if you admit that this is how these problems can be solved, then what good was the amok run that government actors have done here in the last four or five years? And if you think so, thank God, Mayor István Tarlós and Mayor Máté Kocsis, I have a few questions. You may seem a little spouty, but I'd like to ask you these questions, see if anyone can read this report. When are you going to withdraw the decree on living in the public domain? Because if the previous claim that the provision of permanent housing, cooperation with civilians and the search for ways out is the solution, then this regulation must obviously be withdrawn immediately. I would like to know how, if you agree with this, you intend to support people in precarious housing situations. What programmes would you like to develop so that these people can keep their property stable, have a decent income, so that they can finance their own housing, and can pay the bills? We would like to know or know these programs. And I've been saying for years, the biggest hiatus is that there is no rental program in Hungary, the government does not have a rental program. Because this problem has been dealt with wrong, for example, by the apartment complex in Ocsa. I have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that the fact that people with the same problems are being housed in one place is not going to solve the problem itself. In a segmented environment, these people will only get worse, while in the integrated environment there are nearly four hundred thousand vacant homes in this country. I can state that based on the latest census data. And finally, it would be good to know what professional and civil society organisations would like to contribute to this problem. Because what I've noticed in recent years is that civilians have been persecuted and not negotiated with them. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2015-03-19-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since we are at the speeches in advance in writing, a round has passed, so Mr Nándor Gúr has the opportunity to make a two-minute comment. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Under normal speaking frameworks, I will certainly go into more detail on the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, and I will explain, but I would like to mention a related point to what my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, has said. He's got to be on the subject of homelessness, so I'm going in a different direction, which obviously should move the government's attitude. I approach this issue from the direction of unemployment. I do so because both problems lead practically to what is one of the areas of investigation of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. You know, in recent years, when the story was about making these people more vulnerable, they went the wrong way. At a time when they did not start fighting unemployment itself, but against the unemployed. Remember: instead of the nine-month payout period, the supply periods were reduced to three months, while, of course, the contributions imposed on employers or employees were collected in the same way, nearly HUF 200 billion, but only one quarter of it was allocated to the people in need to provide a helping hand. What I'm trying to say is that there is a problem with the basics, in my opinion, on your part, and that you are not dealing with the problem, but with the person who seems to be the problem. They don't want to solve the problem, they leave you alone, they take your hand away or they don't even put it there. This is the fundamental problem, and the result is that there are so many problems facing this country in this period as many as there are. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-19-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will be followed by Mr László Teleki of the MSZP Group. I'll wait for him to put the microphone on. [[It's happening.]] From now on, there's a chance. Here you go. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As I said at the Justice Committee's meeting, I can support the proposal myself, also because it asks a lot of questions that I agree with, and I think I should agree. Nevertheless, I wanted to highlight some of the things that are important to me, so that I could see more clearly and clearly what different things look like, different areas of expertise. I would particularly like to talk about the material on page 79, which discusses the birth status of youth. I also indicated to Vice-Ombudsman that I would find it important at this point, because I can see and perceive from his reply at the time that there was an intention, but it was not examined that the question of how big the population was, let us say, in Eastern Hungary or in Western Hungary, was raised many times. I said we can only see this picture clearly and clearly if we add the death rate to this. Because it can be seen clearly and clearly that in the case of Roma in Hungary, the older people die 10-12 years before the non-Roma people die. Therefore, we would get a very false picture if we only saw this one picture. As a result, I would suggest that the two issues should be coordinated even in 2015-16, because then everyone would see more clearly on this issue what these two rates look like, the birth and death rates of the Roma in Hungary in the first place, but it could be said calmly that they belong to the poor, because the non-Romas in East Hungary are slowly living in the same way as they do when they get a pejorative picture of the Roma. As a result, I think it would be important to show Hungarian society the proportion of birth and death in the country in a layer of poverty. The other one, which I think is very important again, is on pages 80 to 81 of the report. This is about national authorities. [[14.10]] I would also like to explain here that I could not agree with the electoral law, which says - it goes back to the KSH data - what the data showed in 2011 and in the year of the elections, the majority of the ethnicities found out that a local government can only be established in a settlement where at least 30 people declared themselves to be the same minority. This is a problem because they are really not prepared - especially in smaller settlements - to register themselves or to say that they belong to this or that minority. Especially in many cases - and this is not a negative criticism, I'm just saying my experience - because in many cases the questioners didn't even ask which nationality it belongs to. Therefore, it could not have been and should not have been the government touching such a point in order to possibly take this into account. This is why it is completely false when we talk about national governments, because they could not prepare for elections in the same year as they would have liked, because they have touched the KSH data, and this does not reflect the will of the minority. There is no way he could have mirrored it, because if, in 2011, when the KSH had started this work, they would have told the nationalities that, yes, we would have bound the electoral law to this, then the country or the nationalities would have had a completely different picture. More people would have been trying to find something to form a minority government. So I think it is very important that we study on this issue in the next period, because it can be important for all of us. On page 89, we are talking about educational integration, which has already been discussed today. I am of the opinion that I am strengthening integrated education, and I would like to push it, because we live in a country, and I think that it is possible for a child of Roma nationality to have a good and adequate connection to this country if he receives an integrated education. Of course, if there are parental and geographical situations that need to be resolved and there is no way around the possibility that there may be more Roma, then this needs to be looked at, we need to examine whether we can create the conditions for the level of education that they may be able to create elsewhere, and the conditions that, if they receive it, I have no objection to. Here's the concrete example: there is no problem at Gandhi High School, because there was a high school there with 80-90 percent Roma in the Gandhi High School in Pécs. There is no problem with that, because when they have undertaken this and said that they would like to do so, we should also take note of this, who are strengthening integrated education. The report indicates that the results in funding and education are not very visible. I myself feel the same way, and I have repeatedly indicated in several of my speeches that I do not see the result of what is being said many times now, that very big things have happened in education or in integration. As far as I'm concerned, it's more of a redevelopment. Why do I say that? Because it was still possible to follow until 2011, the Hungarian Gypsies Public Foundation was able to see taxatically how many Roma children and what schools they go to and how many people receive support from taxpayers' money. When this was abolished by the current government together with several foundations, it took away from Hungarian society the opportunity to see whether there is Roma intellectuals or whether Roma intellectuals can be born in Hungary or not. Because from now on, we can't see, and we can't see, how many Roma children are receiving scholarships and how many people have fallen, who go to college, university or vocational school. Because then we could say to taxpayers, Roma or non-Roma, no matter whether it is worth spending tax forints in the direction of the Roma, because then we can see that more and more people can get to college or university. Today, however, we do not see this because it has been combed together with the general scholarships, which I would not have a problem with, but the biggest problem with it is, once again, that it is not visible how many young people in ethnicity are given the opportunity to learn. Therefore, I think that integrated education is of great importance and that within integrated education the delivery of the scholarship system would be a very important phenomenon. This is, by the way, linked to the minority self-governments, which I have already mentioned. Most of the time, it is regulated in the law that education and culture are the main responsibility of a national government. On the other hand, it is very interesting and I would like to draw the attention of the Deputy Ombudsman and the attention of non-existent members of the government that there is no task-based support in line with education. While culture and language and others are otherwise provided for the support of the normative, the system of task-based support does not support non-nationalisation or talent management. Therefore, it is simply ridiculous that precisely what the Roma in Hungary need most - which they cannot get from the parent in many cases, but could be used in extracurricular and talent management - is not supported by task-based support. Therefore, I think that the government is very irresponsible if it does not open this door and does not take task-based subsidies in a direction that can be used for education. To sum up, I think it is absolutely important that the Roma minority, the nationalities, feel that this country is theirs, and it is therefore important for respect for human rights that such an institution is born. Although I very much like to point out in several places that I thought it was better when the Ombudsman's office was independent, but if that is the case, then we must work with it, and the activity that I have seen in the past, I can safely say that it is possible to turn to the Ombudsman's office, because if there are violations that have occurred, then they will try to help us by all means. Therefore, I am in favour of this proposal myself. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP and ethnic advocates.]]
u2015-03-19-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings to an end the speeches made by the Members who have signed up in writing. It's two minutes away. Mr László Kiss and Mr András Schiffer are next, and then we will continue the speeches with Mr Sebestyén Csító. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would just like to draw your attention to one very important thing, which is in the report, and my colleague, Mr Korózs, has already mentioned this: the activity of the home mafia and the home mafia. It is very good that this is in the ombudsman's report, because many people might believe that this is not such a big problem. I must say, as a representative of Óbuda-Békásmegyer, that we meet this problem every day. Many times older people, often sick people, are intimidated, dumped from their homes, but in my kind of practice, in my political activity, it has occurred to a well-suited intellectual couple that he lost his apartment because of the activities of the home-buggers. A six - month mission was enough when he left his home and practically had nowhere to go back to. Compared to this, I have to say that not only in 2013 but even if there will be such a report, we will be able to repeat these sentences in 14 and 15 too, because unfortunately, the consensus that appeared in 2010 and 11 in the fight against the housing mafia has not led to results today. So when we talk about finally taking action against these soulless people, against the people who prey on elderly, sick people or against those who put others out of their homes, use them against such people, I think that we need strong government action. That is why I am not so pleased with him, and I think that the person who is here has made similar criticisms before me; among the representatives of the government who have read this report, they could now receive tips in this debate on the direction in which the government should go, but it does not happen, because at the moment no representative of the government is present. This also says a lot about how serious this debate, this report, is being taken seriously. Thank you.
u2015-03-19-74	Thank you very much. Mr. András Schiffer is next. [[14.20]]
u2015-03-19-75	Mr President, speaking of 2013 and the new civil code, I would like to mention two more issues here. One of the things that my colleague László Kiss was just talking about. Back in the day, the Ptk. in his debate, in order to protect the people who have become the victims of the housing mafia, we proposed that the property registration documents should be more public. So one of the most effective defenses against such criminal organizations would be publicity. The other issue, which is also the narrower area of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, is the Ptk. in his debate and after the Ombudsman's submission, even at the time of the previous Ombudsman, we also proposed the sending of the rules of capacity to control the rules of procedure, namely: the fact that the role of the civil code, in Hungarian, the role of the deputy decision-making has not increased, is contrary to the obligation already assumed in an international treaty. We therefore proposed in 2013 that, in comparison with Hungary's international contract obligations, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights should also send it to the Constitutional Court. After all, I think it is precisely the situation of our most defenseless fellow citizens that best shows the state of a society. So we should permanently break up with the centuries-old or decades-old method that condemns people with disabilities to total disenfranchisation. I continue to think that the ratio between deputy and supportive decision-making should be reversed, that supporting decision-making should give greater importance to civil code regulation. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-19-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Nándor Gúr will have the floor at the end of the next round when he has also said his proper speech. It is now time for a proper speech from the Jobbik Group, Mr Sebestyén Vácsó.
u2015-03-19-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to address a few points in the report. These are almost all about issues relating to social policy and social policy in my field of expertise. The first point, which is a very important point, and I have recently dealt with it a lot here in Parliament, is the operation of the child protection signalling system in Hungary. There are a lot of identified cases in this report, at the end of which it can be concluded that there are errors in the operation of the child protection signalling system. If I look at the cases, I'll find almost all the characters in the child protection warning system, and then finally, they've brought them out to report faults, and they've been malfunctioning with the child protection signal system. By the way, even if we consider that this report does not contain the most horrific cases that have come to light since then, because it cannot contain them in time, we can also say, even in support of this fact, that we do need to reform the child protection warning system. On the one hand, a more sophisticated regulation should be introduced, the role of the parties involved should be clarified in the various legislations and what is still lacking: greater protection would be needed for those involved in this signalling system, even at Btk. level. In many cases, it is not the result of the lack of care of negligence or of the task of the profession that they do not use a sign in relation to a case that is present or even visible, but in many cases it is the fear that motivates the lack of a sign. On the one hand, this can only be done by providing more legal protection to the persons involved. They must continue their duties in the same area the following day, the next day after the signal. Many times - whether we look at the child welfare service as part of the signalling system or even the protective service - they must either go out to that area and physically perform these tasks and do their signal. So, even with reference to this report, I ask the government to consider changing the legislation in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the signalling system. The other big piece dealt with in the report is the rights of people with disabilities, their effectiveness, their equality before the law. This report concerns the year 2013, but it also deals with the effects of the law in force on 1 January 2012, as it extended to the following year, the Law on persons with disabilities, which abolished disability pensions with one blow. There are several specific cases that can be demonstrated that you have misplaced this institution in one blow. He introduced another one by saying that it was probably already in the draft that some of these people who received disability pensions had to be excluded from care, even if we consider the rules of the profession, whether from a medical point of view or in the spirit of social solidarity, there were people who were deprived of benefits that were unworthy of it, i.e. they were unworthy of displacement, and, yes, because of their health or mental state, they would have received certain benefits. The report also addresses the often illegal nature of the reviews, and many times because of these violations, people in need of them have been deprived of certain benefits. In the area of employment for people with disabilities, criticisms are also made, which are still timely, and no changes have been made in the system itself. The report highlights the fact that the increase in the rehabilitation contribution, i.e. an increase in the sentence taken in the quotation mark, which affects employers and employers who do not employ a sufficient proportion of persons with disabilities, may have achieved their goal in such a way that the employment figures have improved, but in very many cases there is no actual work behind them, but in many cases it is only about the x+1th person with disabilities who had to be hired by the boss to avoid having to pay that rehabilitation contribution, the nearly one million forints. This isn't the right way. The right direction is what I have been saying for a very long time, and I could also say that since I joined Parliament in 2010, I have been constantly saying about these issues, which would be very important, is sensitivity. Not only must this situation be changed by increasing the rate or amount of the contribution to rehabilitation or by improving the employment conditions of persons with disabilities and with disabilities from a material point of view - I am thinking, in particular, that the employer who intends to hire such a person should not only be aware of the financial advantages or the financial disadvantages that may arise from the lack of access to it, but also be aware of the actual benefits; whether in a field or in a particular production course or type it can be an advantage to the existence of a particular disability. So they're still missing from the system. Even though the 2013 report is still missing, these systems still do not work the way they should. The issue of hate speech has also been mentioned in the introduction, the extent to which hate speech, since hate speech has been included in the legislation and can be punished, has been applied since then, and even in the number of judgments. Even at the time of the previous Ombudsman's operation, I attended a conference in the building of the office, where this passage was discussed, perhaps it was about this year or the year before. It is true that Gypsy was mentioned there on this issue, but not on the victim's side, but on the perp's side. This legislation has been in force for some time, and the courts have been applying it for some time, and it has only been possible to observe that it was generally the Gypsy minority speaking of hatred against the majority society, which, according to the court, was a violation in several cases, and that judgments have therefore been issued. [[14.30]] In terms of access to social benefits, he highlights a very well-functioning local social programme in Hungary today, the Verpatak model, not in a positive light, as we usually refer to, but in a negative light. I believe that the liberal direction that has unfortunately been characteristic of social policy since the change of regime - and I can even say that, despite the government calling itself national and conservative since 2010, this liberal orientation has remained in power - is wrong. The report criticises the Veerpataki model on the basis of very broad-based legislation; I am referring to the broad interpretation of the question of necessity, the question of determining the necessity, the question of determining eligibility. These are very broad concepts, and these broad concepts include the Verpatak model and the regulations and decisions of the mayor of Verpatak and the body of representatives there. This can be investigated in a number of ways. I consider it to be a wrong direction, especially considering the abuse of social benefits and the abuse of consumption, to look at them liberally, and to say that this implies that these rights should be broadened as much as possible and that these social benefits should be paid and provided as much as possible. I'm more of a principle to use this opportunity to narrow it down rather than narrow it down to the number of people who have access to it, but to narrow it down under the condition of access. So I think it is the right direction to help, of course, in the spirit of social solidarity, citizens who are in a difficult situation, in crisis situations, or even those who live in our own settlement, but I think it is the right direction to demand conditions at the same time. One is, therefore, that cooperation in terms of conditions is a fundamentally acceptable condition which must be implemented, and, on the other hand, it should be taken into account that if a person endangers a community by his/her everyday conduct, or constantly engages in antisocial acts, either against his/her own fellow residents or other citizens living in the settlement, then they are excluded by the local government from certain benefits for which the law allows. There is nothing wrong with this, either from a legal point of view or from a legal point of view after examining the Hungarian legislation. Therefore, in his criticism of this model or of these efforts or similar efforts - not only in relation to the model of Verpataki, but also in relation to the social benefits of other settlements, it has been suggested that certain persons be unduly excluded from care - I would suggest that, in this report or even in investigations, not only this one-sided path or this one-sided opportunity should be taken into account, but that the legislation should be interpreted in a broad sense and that the wishes I have made should be taken into account, even from a professional point of view. As the social care system, which we have reached, I say, thanks to the incorrect liberal orientation by 2015, is very much terminal in nature, by changing our approach, we can only achieve the end of the terminal character and do have a motivational and reintegration task and a role. In addition, the interests and protection of the majority society, the majority of people living in the locality - or even people not in crisis situations - should be taken into account in determining certain benefits. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-19-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the MSZP Group, Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-03-19-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. László Székely, Commissioner of Fundamental Rights, when he formulated the introductory ideas, I think he approached the issue that touched on the legacy of Máté Szabó. You may have been lucky, Commissioner, to have been able to take over and carry over a process that, in effect, did not create barriers to you and the organisation, but opportunities, in drawing up useful consequences. I think you also rightly and well put it when it said that if you look into all that lies behind these 23 cases of seven thousand cases, you will find yourself virtually with a real vision. Of course, I didn't get a chance to get close to every case, but I've hacked through those three hundred or a few pages and read through them in order to really see how diverse and extensive the work they're doing within the framework of the office. And it's true that you get a good picture of what kind of problems you're dealing with. I also concluded to myself that, of course, this is just the tip of the iceberg. The 6977 cases on which I do not know exactly, but 85-90 percent of them have been closed in the given year, and the rest are presented as a case that goes on, so that roughly 6,000 cases raise virtually a multitude of questions that I think the government should deal with in a deeper way, they should carry out deeper analyses. That is why I am sorry and I find it shameful that there is not one member of government sitting in the room with the Commissioner's report. I also regret the fact that I can count on one hand how many fidesz politicians are sitting in this room, because these sensitive questions and issues are born from exactly the same causes that you have brought to life. I've been working on treatments for the unemployed for the last two minutes. With one sentence, I could say that you are always thinking in statistics, the only thing that is important for you is to say that the number and proportion of unemployed people are decreasing, and to do so, you are referring to the means of pushing these people out of the supply systems, how to keep them away from the possibility of providing a helping hand. This is how you make statistics, but it's not real. That is not the reality, and that is why we are faced with many cases, many of the contradictions that have been revealed, which can be seen through the Commissioner's report. But this applies not only to unemployed people, but also to people within the framework of the social system, because they have practically made the social network bigger, and they have created bigger holes in it in recent years. If I want to go a little consistently on the path that the Commissioner has followed, then I should obviously thank you in my first sentences or thoughts for the fact that I think that the necessary, although not so formulated, government criticism is involved in these suggestions, in these well-intentioned awareness raisings, or I can also say that the call for change is correct. Although I see that in many cases these calls or these warnings are dead in the ashes, it is important that they were born, yet they offered evasive answers from the government and not solutions to the proposals. [[14.40]] This is not good, it would be better to move in a different direction. But how can this be expected of a government that even forbids the use of the word poverty itself? Because of poverty, vulnerability, necessity - and I could say synonymous and similar concepts - the issues that we are discussing here today in some sense still exist. But in the same way, the issue of people with disabilities, which has been affected either by my fellow Member Schiffer or by others, is an area of magnitude in Hungary today that should be dealt with in a deeper way. By subpoenaing people with disabilities with changed working skills, the number of people revealed by themselves is close to half a million, the 500 thousand, but that is obviously not it. This is much more on the basis of practical experience, because the declaration of ourselves in this regard is always more restrictive than reality. In this sense, it is safe to say that the number of people facing a multitude of problems with these features is closer to one million. After all, 1.6 million people have persistent problems, not for a week or two, but for a long time. If that is the case, and, as an example, nearly 60 percent of these people live their lives in the period before the 65-year retirement age and nearly 30 percent live their lives in the 50-year-old band, shouldn't you be thinking about introducing institutional systems that have been spoken about in the last few days and weeks between Parliament's walls and beyond, or about which Parliament's draft resolutions have been submitted? That there should be a decent pension system, so that young people starting their careers could also be given the opportunity to obtain pension rights for men after 40 years of entitlement? And I could give you thousands of other examples. Shouldn't the current government in these matters at least get to the level of thought? Because I see that they are slow with regard to action; at least in terms of thinking we should get to this point. But there are other problems for people with disabilities who have changed their ability to work. In terms of care, people were practically deprived of their former stipends. They give them care, care, not pension, and care - I quote - is the dog's dinner category, and you know it very well, because you can reduce it at any time, or you can eliminate it at any time. But with regard to the reviews, my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, could draw your attention to a great deal of contradictions that have been born in recent years, or about rehabilitation, which leaves a lot of questions and is accompanied by considerable lack of results. But I will also say just one item, since we have placed this issue in the focus: the amount of the care fee, which is currently around HUF 29 thousand, if someone is caring for a disabled person, has the same amount for five years, in the period of your administration. But now even a law has been passed that, at the discretion of the local authorities, could even give rise to a situation where the person receiving the care fee could not even obtain his health insurance, because if a care fee is set below a certain amount, this is the case. So I would like to draw your attention to your social insensitiveness, because most of these questions can come from here. I wouldn't talk about prevention, because as far as prevention is concerned, I see you guys are kind of in the back of the line. I am not going deeper into this, I just want to say that you obviously have a lot of work to do in this regard, from education to employment policy, health care, social care systems, rehabilitation, and much more, in which I see a great deal of hiatus in your work. But I don't want to be stuck here, so I'm going to go on, and I'm going to tell you to think about the fate of people in the tight position in Hungary today. In any case, I list those who earn income below the minimum living age, those who live their lives as public workers, and I could say a few more categories, and then their children, anyway. You know, in a country where, according to the National Tax and Customs Office, in a given year, 2013 to avoid earning, 4 million 300 thousand people make personal income tax returns - this does not mean that so many people work all year round, because some people who work one month or two do personal income tax returns - there are more than 2.2 million of these people whose income they earn does not reach the minimum. Then how the hell can we not meet, say, 6977 cases like the one we've encountered? About 20-21 percent of this, by the way, is what appears to be a social issue. What I am trying to say is that the current government should be able to touch on the fundamental issues, and it should be there that these cases do not represent such an order of magnitude. But on the other hand, I say that these cases only show the tip of the iceberg in their number, because if I point out the question of my narrower Patria, then I say that Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, if I remember correctly, was affected by 340-350 cases. In English, this is 5 percent of all cases that arise, although I believe and experience that the number of cases that could appear within the 6977 case could be much more extensive in terms of the problem. The more people live their lives under tighter conditions, the less motivated they may be, perhaps their awareness, their opportunity, the less the number of cases appears to the appropriate authorities in this sense. But the point I wanted to make is that the people living below the minimum living or the minimum wagers, the public workers and their children must live in this situation during this period that you have brought them: that the very layer that is living under difficult conditions, the one who has had to suffer in recent years is that they have been taken away from them even more. Of course, I'm not surprised at that, because your foundation, your basic saying, is that everyone's worth as much as they have. Yeah, and the ones with the little ones, they get lost. This has been shown over the last five years, how, through what means. Whether directly or within the framework of such a global thinking, for certain regulatory systems. It should also be added that these children, who grow up in families with such a difficult fate - and this is not about Gypsy and Gypsy families, no, but about families with a heavier fate - are in fact under more restrictive conditions in terms of access to learning. Obviously, if they are under more restrictive conditions in terms of access to learning and access to knowledge, they are also limited in terms of participation in the world of work at the subsequent stage. But if they have limited opportunities to participate in the world of work, then obviously their housing conditions are also much tighter and worse than those of people living within other segments of society. But such is also the possibility of access to healthcare, especially where these people live their lives - because there are also territorial specificities of the country in this regard - there is either a lower quality of service in terms of health care or a narrower set of services, all of which affect the lives of these people. So, overall, now I'm closed to my thoughts here, I have to say that the government has something to do in order for the Commissioner's reports not to paint this picture as it appears today. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[14.50]]
u2015-03-19-80	Congressman, don't even sit down, because you've registered for a two-minute comment, and you're next.
u2015-03-19-81	Thank you very much, Mr President, but that won't be enough to say everything I want to say, so in these two minutes, just one sentence. [[Defiance.]] I'll say one sentence. This one sentence is just that if you think a little seriously that these issues need to be dealt with, you should be kind, say, the next time - because I see it was not enough for any of the government's actors to sit down in the velvet chair - the next time you shake your pants a little and be willing to participate in Parliament's debate and invite your government actors to come here as well. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-19-82	Thank you very much. A proper speech will be followed by Mr László György Lukács from Jobbik, who will be followed by Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2015-03-19-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Commissioner, I would like to address a section of the area, which is the area of health, and I promise you that the topic will not be so funny, or that it will not start out so funny, even if it fits into the category of political joke, that none of the health politicians from Fidesz or KDNP have been able to attend the debate, although otherwise there is plenty of health issues and issues. But I'm just trying to make a difference. If someone here feels like a health politician in the ranks of Fidesz and KDNP, he can raise his hand. [[No signal.]] I didn't see hands rising, so I'm broadcasting this to the media, because they can't see from the crowded camp who's here. This is also a pity, since there are very many critical remarks in the summary of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, which we can interpret as a criticism of the last four or even the previous cycles, and there are very serious, important positions in it. Perhaps Mr Székely felt that he was going to make a critical argument and did not wish to take part in this debate and save what could be saved, because he made very serious criticisms against the government to whom, by the way, he was a good friend, because he was also a massive participant in the Ptk. codification and worked with him earlier. So to get to the point of the problem, and so that, by the way, neither Mrs Molnár, nor Mrs Bene, nor Congresswoman Kovács, nor Mr Sombor, even though they would really know about the subject, the politicians here will obviously convey to them; then pay close attention, I will quote most of what Mr Székely has found with this report, what he has revealed, and what maladministration there is. A comprehensive fundamental rights-based analysis of the systemic problems of the health sector must be stopped here. It will therefore be a question of problems in 2012, which are now going through two governments, so it took place in the framework of an examination of the case number 2002 in the Office, the actuality of which was due to the change in the economic, legal environment, the reform of the health care system, which is the case at the time, but is still the case. I quote from the study:. The investigation revealed that the pay situation in the health sector is highly differentiated, and that the social usefulness and value of work are unworthy. In many cases, wages are not proportionate to the level of work done, to the responsibilities of workers, to the deterioration of the self-esteem, social respect of health workers, and to the already critical lack of expertise. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Commissioner pointed out that the situation is particularly unfair when, for various reasons, there is a lack of compensation for the excess work carried out. He pointed out as a problem that the wage arrangement started was carried out in several stages, not necessarily according to the schedule of health care workers and their current personal basic salary. As this had a negative impact on the sector anyway, the government started to develop a partial wage development involving a small profession, to which it did nothing but break the apparent peace of the health sector and create a strong wage tension, generated by itself in the profession, between young people on the one hand, and doctors who already had a skilled and professional career on the other. The comment in this regard: this was not only in 2012 and 2013, but is the case at present, and the government does not read this report and so much does not read the reports that it has launched the same plan for the so-called wage development of health sector workers, in which, by the way, a dozen private letters from doctors, head of institutions and senior doctors have now been created, in which health managers are so much aware that, according to the same method, they are putting doctors working in an unfair position in health care, not to mention the fact that they are asking for a fix on all of this, the conclusion of their jobs, and overall, the increase in salaries is alms, international wages, but at least the same time, for wages that are approximating to international wages. Therefore, the working conditions of healthcare workers, in addition to pay, were in any event impaired in the context of healthy and safe working conditions during the period under investigation, although there were several developments and investments in the country. Several suppliers have developed assets in the last ten years, but we also need to be noted here. In the development cycle, the 500 billion forints that went to health development went into concrete, as the health profession says, almost 85 percent, so that the money was spent on nothing other than the asset technology side of health care, but on the development of buildings. For example, it was possible to magically make nice buildings with external glass surfaces from a hospital, it could be said that it was made of Las Vegas-type hotels, although there was a shortage of specialists in these facilities, a shortage of nurses, a shortage of nurses, a shortage of specialists. So in these institutions, people did not have the greatest concern about how they could heal and in what a beautiful environment they were healing, but whether there would be enough doctors to operate, whether there would be enough nurses to care for him after the surgery, and they did not care that Las Vegas-style European Union money had been built, let's say, concrete developments around them, but that they were affected by the banal shortages that resulted from the lack of labour. On the other hand, there was also a lack of asset development from these developments, where the assets could be included - I see that there are those who nod - and in the case of asset development, we have been able to choose a provider who is private companies. I asked the Secretary of State for Health a written question, to answer how many state-owned CTs, MRs are in operation in Hungary, and how many more should there be, how many more are rented. I am still waiting for the answer, but I do know that there should be at least 26 more in the country, so that there is at least a European level and a quality of care, and that there is slowly no place for them to be settled, because you and the left on my right have successfully downsized the beds, successfully closed the hospitals and further reduces the number of beds, and the consequences of the next so-called health change and structural change will also be that they will be moved further. So nowadays, there is no place to place the appliances that would otherwise be vitally needed in these settlements. For example, we would need Tapolca, for example, in Mezőtúr, but we could also say that there is a need for improvements in Marcali and in Nagyatad. But turning back to the essential elements: there is therefore a lack of adequate staff and social facilities in many institutions, this has also been revealed in the report, resulting in increased physical and mental stress and increased sense of burnout. At the same time, the number of programmes and trainings to address and remedy these acute problems was small in the system of gradal and postgraduate training and further training, although there is a strong need for this from those working in the sector. So we can see that health care, in addition to human resources, is also affected by a so-called burnout syndrome, which, by the way, is not only one of health care's own, but also one of its own. Moreover, the report covers overall the shortage of staff in health and takes into account the figures that I have already presented in my speeches. Overall, it is well and correctly stated that the data show that the active medical community is ageing, and the relative shortage of healthcare professionals can be detected in almost all health care institutions. The Commissioner believes that overall these systemic problems have an impact on the quality of care to such an extent that, in the end, they can lead to maladministration related to the fundamental right of patients to health and health care and to the related public obligation. [[15.00]] In this context, the Ombudsman proposed the development of a health career model, which has been mentioned several times in this House, which Jobbik has repeatedly said, and which has been delayed by the Fidesz government for almost six years since 2010, given the fact that it may have been promised to reflect on the course of life in 2016, has been successfully delayed by the Fidesz government. Now, in two cross-government ways, the request of professional organisations, the request of the civilian population, and indeed, let us say that despite the request of politicians, there were plenty of fellow Fidesz politicians who were present as representatives who stood up as hospital directors for the introduction of the career model at the time. Thus, the Ombudsman rightly pointed out that partial increases in salaries also caused wage tensions within professions and skill levels. As an emblematic case, dentists who have repeatedly complained to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in the case of partial partial wage increases have been able to achieve wage tension with partial pay increases, not at career model level. These tensions, however, must be seen, have not been lifted so far by the government, even though it would have been at the disposal of both the two-thirds of the economic potential and the intention, but they did not use that will, nor did they so much want to introduce it. So what we see is that the government regenerates all the problems that apply to health workers and that apply to the career model. So since 2012, but we can expand the question, perhaps since 2010, in one place, and I wouldn't be surprised if in 2014 the 2014 report, the 2015 report, or more, we could see the same in the other accounts and see the same descriptions. Overall, this report was also useful because it was trying to outline a real picture of all the problems that are being silenced, all the problems that are typically swept under the rug by the government in the field of health, and it rightly pointed out all the problems that still impose health across two Orbán governments. It is regrettable that no other health politician has been able to listen to this polemic or well-meaning criticism, but Jobbik cannot be discouraged from the intention of constantly bringing it up and bringing it up among the walls of this house as a priority, because health is a really important topic, a political product that should be dealt with more between the walls of the House, because it has been deprived recently, and it is in the primary and real interest of health to bring it up, for example, in relation to such agenda items, which have a health-related theme, so we will not push the subject, we will not be able to discuss health issues among such agenda points, and we will not just have to discuss whether my fellow Fidesz will stand up, and you will perhaps tell us what developments have been or will stand up and tell us what developments have been made in the county institution. By the way, it is good to know that most of the county institutions have skipped the development of the European Union that went to the countryside, not the smaller hospitals. For example, in 58 percent of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, only the Hetényi Géza Hospital took the bigger development money. In Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, if all is true, the ratio is even worse, and in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County almost everything was concentrated on Nyíregyháza. It's understandable, of course. The allocation of EU development funds developed by one of the workshops is also available, with very high rates. This has all pointed to the fact that the institutions in the county seat have sucked air away from smaller institutions and have made much smaller investments in their volume. Thus, overall, it can be said that the health situation has not progressed a bit from the deadlock outlined in the findings. The situation shows the same thing. Looks like one of the government's stepchildren is health care. 2012,. 13,. 14, the line pattern continues, and it appears that the government's stepchild remains in the report to all health workers, who are otherwise included in the report, does not intend to act effectively in the interests of their interests. However, since 2013 and today, if you would like to read it for the first time today, the example has been known and is waiting for a solution. We therefore call on the government to deal with the situation of health workers on a substantial basis, to address the situation of health institutions. Otherwise, I look forward to the responses that will apply to EU development. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-19-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would just like to inform you because you did not notice, Mr President, when you made your remark that the Commissioner was sitting in the front row and that he had returned from there. So you were only gone long enough to go there and come back. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mrs Bangóné Borbély Ildikó. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-19-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Commissioner, In his Commissioner László Székely's toast, Dr. László emphasized that he sought to focus on continuity and stability in the period after his inauguration. Reading the more than 300 - page accounts, I can say that in less than a year my representative may have been one of the most exciting, if you can say so. László Székely puts it this way:. You can hold a very large volume in your hand, which is an important impression of the state of our sociological rule of law. An educational reading for all those who really want to know Hungarian reality is almost a cross-section of society, state, law, life itself, if you will. And, of course, behind the cases, remember, my dear reader, there are always human fates. I can only hope that all my fellow Members have read this more than 300-page report and that it was also important for them to read it. If I wanted to be a little cynical, I would make it mandatory for government representatives, like reading at school. Unfortunately, I see that when we are discussing this report on fundamental rights, human fates, as Commissioner has quoted, and human fates that amaze the reader, we are hardly here from the People's Welfare Committee. I would describe the report with two sentences: honesty rages in it, and the state of the country is seen in this more than 300-page report. Even when presenting the events, it becomes clear how important it is for your office and for your staff to cooperate with civil society organisations for the protection of rights. Unlike pro-government politicians, the report speaks very highly of the work of civil society organisations protecting rights and describes and analyses the intensive professional relationship with them. The report, which has already been said to me, deals with five main areas: children's rights, ethnic rights, protection of a healthy environment, protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and other groups at greatest risk. Looking at the tables on the back, my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, has already said that 6977 cases have been investigated, and if we look at the territorial distributions, it is very interesting where complaints come from to the legal protection organisations. If you look at Budapest, there are 2042 cases of 916 people from Budapest, Pest County, and if you think we are talking about less-favoured, poorer counties, you have turned from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg to 283 cases, in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County 347 cases, but if I mention my own county, you have turned to a legal office or organization in 281 cases. It is very instructive for me, though, we could say that Budapest is the largest city, but apparently there are very few cases of appeal from so-called poor counties. I think we should look into why this is happening. Either they don't know about it, or they can't even get to the point where they're seeking redress for themselves. [[15.10]] The report has often pointed out the situation of vulnerable social groups and has a great deal to do - with my great pleasure - with problems affecting children and with their experience. I'll tell you honestly, when I first read this report, I started taking notes, and then I gave up this note, because you might have written the same after the book, and I had a thought that we should play it in Parliament, if the pro-government politicians weren't sitting here, that the few politicians who were sitting here would start reading this book word by word, letter by letter. Because it can really be seen that this report is not really important for the Fidesz KDNP politicians; if it were important, they would be sitting here with us now and expressing their views on this report. In relation to children, the report details the shortcomings in the feeding of children. I'll deal with that separately. In a number of children's cases, the report highlights the operational problems of the child protection signalling system, the maladministration in the functioning of the signalling system, and the shortcomings in the cooperation of the signalling system. In all cases, we say that we cannot progress if the signal system is not working properly. I will have to read some quotes at the children's meal, because I was shocked to read when the family-friendly government presented support for children in need as a success story about the problems the Commissioner encountered in everyday life. I would like to quote some of the points from this report:. The solution to the feeding of children with special needs cannot depend on the goodwill of the institutions. Finding a solution is not an optional task for the institutions. This means that it is not always possible to solve the mandatory task in the institutions, in kindergarten, in school, when we are talking about, say, a child with celiac disease, diabetes or any disease, in many cases this report describes the fact that, in violation of the law, they do not guarantee the fundamental rights of children. In a number of kindergartens and schools, the office looked at the conditions of the reduced meals: the local government at the non-state institution, the local government in the kindergarten which it maintained and in the administrative area in the educational/education institution maintained by the state institution-supporting centre, with reference to budgetary reasons, reduced the main lunch in the south for children in grade 1-8, and the reduced 50 percent in the secondary school under examination, despite the large number of right holders, only a minimal number of children are provided. I was shocked to read this report. I'll go on:.Living with the possibility of legislation, the maintenance staff, school leaders called the parents to declare that they only require lunch for their children. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We talk about 50 percent of children, one in two children at risk of poverty, and we can say that they are poor, and I am outraged to read that they can happen in educational institutions today. If we're talking about child hunger, a number is acceptable, it's zero. There is no such thing as a government accepting children starving in Hungary. The next thing I know, I'm shocked, and I'm going to read this, because it's really just a literal quote, it's about illegal immigration, and we're talking about children here, too. In the last year, there has been a significant increase in the number of foreign children entering Hungary illegally, without parents or adult escorts. The European Union is also concerned about the problem in the Oudsman report. Police only 700 unaccompanied minors between 1 January and 30 September 2012 - 700! - that is, a foreign child who came into the country without a parent or other adult escort, illegally crossing the border. Among them were children under 14 years of age. Several young people were sent back to Serbia, while others were placed in designated children's homes, but two of every three children disappeared without a trace. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Ombudsman also pointed out that, under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is in force in Hungary, any child who is temporarily or permanently deprived of his family environment is entitled to the special protection and assistance of the State. This is contrary to the fact that, despite the availability of spare seats, the designated home for temporary placements refused to accept one third of the unaccompanied minors included in the investigation, for various reasons detailed in the report. We're still talking about kids here. The teacher of a children's home said that several of the returning unaccompanied minors had claimed that the paid smuggler had undertaken to attempt to get them across the green border three times in the event of failure. Although illegally crossing the border, unaccompanied minors claimed without exception that they had reached Hungary with the assistance of smugglers, there was no criminal prosecution for either human trafficking or other crimes. It is clear that the vulnerable situation of children, their resulting grievances, are also linked to criminal offences, but the current legislation does not oblige the foreign police authorities to notify the authority responsible for victim assistance of this issue. iii) I brought this up because there was a debate on economic immigration weeks ago, and I was shocked to read this part of the report. The other is in the context of children's problems and complaints about children's rights: Public education is one of the typical areas of public education: parents regularly arrive from parents in connection with the failure of the educational institution and, exceptionally, submissions from children themselves and students. I don't want to go into details here. I can only recommend that you read what's going on here. Here the report highlights the serious damage to children by reducing the obligation to teach to 16 years. And here in this chapter you are also dealing with child labour; you have heard, my fellow Members, children's work in Hungary. In 2013, the Ombudsman carried out a separate follow-up study on the situation of child labour in Hungary. I'd just like to read a few sentences here. However, the investigation also revealed that, in addition to the night-time work of children, risky work is also involved in the physical development of the child, and that the authority has met several times when, again I say, children of foreign nationality were illegally employed. At the same time, due to the reduction of the obligation to study to 16 years of age, it is possible that this age group may appear on the labour market in a larger number than before, but subject to specific labour law rules which must be maintained during their employment. This report also analyses the fact that the employment of these children, if it is legal or illegal, because we are talking about children, is not an advanced adult person... - special working conditions and special regulations should apply to them. It was a great experience for me to read this report. As I read, I marked the parts that would be very, very important to speak in Parliament. We have divided between Members who will talk about what, the main part of this report, its content, cannot be presented in 15 minutes. I think it would be an obligation for everyone to read it, it would be their duty to get to know this material. Commissioner here at the pulpit said that if anyone wants to learn about Hungarian reality, they must read this book. [[15.20]] We opposition representatives have said many times that we know Hungarian reality. Two parties do not want to acknowledge this in Hungary today, the Christian Democratic People's Party and Fidesz. They do not want to see reality today and do not want to see what is happening in Hungary today. Once again, my dear Members, if you do not dare to go out there and face what is going on in this country, you will be able to read this report, and you will be faced with a lot of things. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-19-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We've had a round, we've got two-minute speeches. Mr Sándor Kovács, from the Fidesz Group, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-87	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Commissioner, Indeed, he is analyzing in detail the Hungarian society, on which she and my fellow Members have spoken, of course, describing and investigating the events that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights must examine and describe. These errors will require learning and adaptation of the measures. Let me ask myself that we don't go out with people. I like to know, Congresswoman, that I am an individual Member and that 100,000 people belong to my constituency, and that week when I am not sitting here, I am at home among them in a settlement of 560 people, and I see the human fates, but I am not making fun of them as cynical as you do with the emphasis on poverty, whatever the subject. Both the Fidesz and the government are aware of the situation of the Hungarian society, the individual social groups, and are doing everything they can to make this better. And to my fellow Member, Jobbikos, let me just say that I think the most natural way in the world, including in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, is to build an oncology center and a block hospital for 13 billion forints. But we dare say that Kisvárda, Fehérgyarmat and Mátészalka have also received billions of years of development, Matthewszalka has a completely new operating unit, and the kind of sick way that patients have underwent in the 21st century. They're supposed to get it in the first century. There may be some distortion, but it's okay for a larger hospital to get more help, because it allows doctors who are less and less present to carry out their tasks in a centralised way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-19-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Nándor Gúr is coming from the MSZP Group for two minutes.
u2015-03-19-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to add one thought to the speech of the former Members: poverty is a state. They don't make fun of it, it's in that period, it's less there or not. Unfortunately, this period is the period, my fellow Member... [[Sándor Kovács: Cynically make fun of him!]] Press the button, then say something. The present period is the time when poverty is seen to be deepened; in many cases poverty is seen to be spoken of, not poverty, but poverty. I have just said a few items: access to education, knowledge, access to work, housing and health conditions and much more; I will not open them. You know, if you're running your own constituency - you might be luckier than me - and you're faced with life situations where you can find the dork, the sparhelt and the latrine in a room of 3 times 3 meters, or 9 square meters, then there's a big problem. I think that there would be a great deal of work to be done in this country in terms of poverty, the eradication of poverty, and we should not be criticising our fellow Members who raise this issue. In recent years, you have deepened poverty and sent many people to the stage of poverty. In this ombudsmanial, fundamental rights Commissioner's report, there are some specific figures: in 2009, child poverty affects 21 percent, 380 thousand people, and in 2012, every second child is deprived of some aspect. But I'm not going in, that's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-19-90	Thank you very much. Mr László György Lukács also asked for two minutes, with whom the round will end.
u2015-03-19-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to continue what we started, about which we opened a civilised debate on how territorial inequalities have emerged in health care, in the EU's source of health care. In this connection, I would just like to explain that the Imeonline portal, health and economics, has published a special number of Krisztina Hangodi's paper on territorial inequalities in health aid in the North Great Plain. He pointed out that HUF 108 billion of development resources had arrived in Hajdú-Bihar, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. All three counties are characterised by health developments in urban areas and EU resource choices are concentrated at the county seat. In Debrecen 80% of the funds of Hajdú-Bihar county, 52 percent of the funds of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county in Nyíregyháza, and 43 percent of the funds of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county are implemented in Szolnok. I'm just saying as a reference what territorial inequalities are and what situation hospitals are forced into: in my county there was an 11 billion HUF development in Szolnok, while in Mezőtúr, where there is also a hospital, 360 million development money was achieved. This is worth understanding only in the context of the fact that they would have been able to perform surgical interventions or even gynaecological interventions with a fair amount of EU funding in Mezőtúr, which is now required to go to Szolnok, the county hospital. In many cases, the county hospital would not have been designed to absorb the population of the county, but to provide the much larger population of the city, but to shift instead, even with EU developments, the method was that the tasks of the county hospitals were unnecessarily enlarged, and then mostly the development money that ripped these regions off and caused territorial inequalities. I only added this for the numbers, but they are now known to you. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-19-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Kiss, from the MSZP Group, will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to start with what my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, has just said: it is not a pleasure for me, as an individual, to report in this House what poverty there is, nor is it a pleasure to spend the last few years as a politician, for example, working with the victims of the home mafia, which I spoke about earlier. It doesn't please anyone. I don't think that's gonna please you either. Nevertheless, we see, not only from this report, but also from statistics, that poverty in this country is only growing and growing. This, by the way, is the case in the majority of the electoral districts, so it is so in ours, and it is so everywhere where they are a little open-minded. Therefore, it is not cynicism on our part when we draw attention to this, but sincere concern. We would very much like that to not be the case. I myself believe that I support any programme as a Member of Parliament, which brings about the eradication of poverty in Hungary, even if it was not invented by the MSZP. I would have liked to have supported, for example, the increase of the Sunday wage supplement to 100 percent, which was proposed by the MSZP, but also the government in a previous debate, but it was not submitted. Unfortunately, that didn't happen either. So I think that if you don't see the increase in poverty in this country, I think you should look around a little bit more. At the same time, however, it is really possible to say a lot of points about this report that are very interesting or very obvious. Allow me to make a few criticisms, but, of course, I will also express what I think are important things, because we must also highlight them from this report. One of the issues that is very good to talk about in the report is the classic way of saying that every resident should have 50 liters of water a day. I think it's a direction of this report that's definitely chest-blowing or astounding. When we draw attention to the fact that this essential liquid is often missing for human existence, human biological existence, it is not necessarily a matter of thirst, but it is about, for example, that people were deprived of basic sanitary facilities in homeless care when they closed one of the basic disinfection sites in Budapest in 2012. This report also writes about this. [[15.30]] Well, so I think this is definitely a very important and good direction. Speaking of homelessness and poverty, I think it is very important to highlight it, and it is also apparent from the report that, indeed, the poor man is not an enemy, the poor man must not be criminalised, but must be helped to break out of his status. As the report puts it, the solution is not to apply administrative or administrative measures against them, but to do something about the supply system. Here, I think it's a bit consistent with the kind of perception that we're human partners, and we have to behave accordingly. The ombudsman's report says that the night shelters in homeless care are crowded - he talks about shelters in Budapest - and the staff is often out of control, and the utilisation is often more than 100 percent. This is very important, because when we put this issue at the forefront, government communication and pro-government communication are roughly and approximately simplified to the fact that the homeless are to blame for being in the public area, why they do not enter the hostel, why they are not there. Then, in my constituency, in my district, the III. I've been in the district every day, and I can see that in many places there have been homeless people in the public area since they were banned from the capital's central locations. This is true of the Spider Street estate, as is true of the Óbuda estate, where I live myself. Now, anyone can say anything to me, just since I've been living in this area, for example, over ten years at the Óbuda residence, I've been able to observe quite well when these poor people have appeared in my environment, and I see such a trend in the emergence of the homeless. Clearly, these people have to be somewhere. And it should also be said that, contrary to what the government claims, even the competent State Secretary-General does not say that they have sufficient seats in Budapest for the homeless. It is logical that if there is not enough space, but at the same time you are constantly starting a war against civil society organisations who are otherwise involved in homelessness, also against the churches that are involved in this care, it is easy to see that by banning them from the underpasses we are counterproductive, we are not achieving the goal. Of course, the goal is not to be homeless, but to do so not by punishing them, but by eliminating the causes, such as poverty or, for example, the activities of the home mobsters that we told you about earlier. The report talks about the child protection warning system. A few months ago, there was a debate about the government building or supplementing this signal system. At the time, I expressed my criticism, which I also experienced as a practicing teacher, and compared to that, the Secretary of State said that we were printing propaganda texts. However, the reality is that you have drafted the child protection officer from the Budget Act as a compulsory institution in education. From now on, the institutions that have the money to do this can employ child protection in public education. I'd say that then, or that sentence would be true if it weren't for the KLIK system. Because there is. And the KLIK, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center, is constantly preventing institutions from establishing such a child protection responsibility if they otherwise have the resources to establish such a child protection authority. The CLIKs do not approve, as often as possible, the application for the status of the child protection officer. Anyway, I'll tell you again, the situation is worse thanks to the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center you've come up with than is coming from the system. I am very pleased that you defined a little at the end of the previous year in relation to the Child Protection Institutional System, it is very right that it has happened, but otherwise there is no institutional system. The situation was similar in 2013, which the report kindly drew attention to. It can be said that there are events in the context of child protection that are astounding. Of course, we would think that the issue of child protection is basically only affecting poor areas, but reading the report shows that this is not so true. For example, there was a case in Agárd, if I remember correctly, when the child had to be taken from a well-suited couple, because they thought that the light would feed the child enough; this is the famous meal of light. The poor child almost died... or died, and I apologize, and the Ombudsman's report also deals with this matter. Such a case occurred with a similarly well-suited couple in my constituency, the III. In the district, too. So it can be said that this is definitely an important issue, which is not just an isolated phenomenon. Compared to this, a child protection warning system would be needed to detect these issues in a timely manner. This was not done in an area where there is a problem, where there are traditionally problems, but in a place where there are otherwise well-suited communities, where communities with high social status live. This demonstrates the need for institutional psychologists, school psychologists, and the need for child protection officers. The task of the policy is to resolve this, and the ombudsman's report drew attention to this. I thank the rapporteur very much for this. Which I would perhaps like to express as a criticism. I have been dealing with animal rights protection for a very long time, which is obviously not such a classic issue of Hungarian politics or Hungarian legislation. Quite rightly, the ombudsman's report also addresses issues of sustainable development, including future generations' rights in the field of environmental protection derived from the Fundamental Law. At the same time, however, I think that there is a great deal to be done in this country in the area of animal rights, as well as in the area of animal protection. It's only because it's very rare to torture an animal. Most often, a person tortures an animal because he knows that doing the same to a human would have serious consequences. Although he reverses the question, he does not torture his fellow man in the way he tortures poor animals because he does not want it, but because he believes that it will have more serious consequences. Unfortunately, Hungarian prosecutorial practice, the Hungarian judicial practice, also assists this, as we can very often witness mild judgments following brutal animal torture. The reason for this is that although the Animal Protection Act, quite rightly, sanctions animal cruelty, and, by the way, punishes the qualified case with a prison sentence of 1-3 years, at the same time, if there are many cases where animals are tortured in front of the masses of people, and the abuse would arise, for example, as a punishment, the prosecutor's office is most often able to prove the simplest item, he accuses the person on the basis of a crime, the end of which is a relatively mild prison sentence. For example, the fundamental point of this is that when animal cruelty is recorded on a medium, it is shared on the World Wide Web; in this case, they can do so virtually unpunished until the user is disabled and the content is deleted. I think it is also important to deal with this in the ombudsman's report, but in other genres. I consider it very important that what can be expressed as criticism in the education system. Here, it is not possible to emphasize enough the delivery of the education obligation by the age of 16. Obviously, it is not a manual number that protects children from dropping out, but it is important to see that in the EU almost uniquely, the statistical number of school dropouts has changed in the worst possible direction; it has increased since the school obligation has decreased. And there has not been much of an example over the last few decades of changing the teaching obligation in a negative direction by self-developed governments, let's say. Returning to poverty with one more word, I think it is a very important sentence, and allow me to quote it literally from the report:, It is clear that people living in poverty are more vulnerable than people living with better existence. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[15.40]] I think it's a very clear sentence. This is important because it can be seen that, although officially, according to the law, everyone is equal in this country, but the social situation, poverty and poverty are practically de facto, are creating inequality, and I think it is a common goal for everyone who sits here to eliminate this inequality. Finally, I would like to thank you for the response of the 2013 report to one of the very important problems in my constituency, the Roman-coastal dam. This report was a little optimistic, so to put it this way, or in other words, let us say, time did not justify the optimism of the report. The report states that there are two different civil positions on the Roman-Coast Dam, and the Ombudsman himself would like and supported the development of a common position and that the change in the dam project gives hope for a common solution in this case. I think it is important to say that the need for people living here to say that they do not want to be poured out at specific times by the Danube is a legitimate need. It could also be said that if the main line of defense breaks through, there may be more serious consequences when the coast of Rome is flooded; the flooding of the Spider street housing estate and parts of Békásmegyer may be such a consequence. That is why I am very pleased that the Ombudsman dealt with this issue in his report, but at the moment the solution is not visible in this case, but I hope that there will be some sort of solution. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-19-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have two-minute speeches, first I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2015-03-19-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to say that they may be aware of the poverty in Hungary, but they are not actually doing anything about it. Today's article in the right-wing press organ of your favourite Hungarian nation, I would like to quote a single sentence about poverty and the development of the employer's burden. His last sentence reads:. In other words, there is no country in the Union that would punish childlessness and poverty to the same extent as Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'd like to talk about childlessness a little bit. When we talk about such a problem as how much child birth in Hungary has decreased in recent years, I have repeatedly said how much emphasis should be placed on fertility treatments. Today, statistically, about 200,000 couples struggle with infertility in Hungary, and these barren couples are the most punished by the current tax system, let alone helping, since they cannot benefit from any tax credit because they do not have children. But this 200,000 is just a statistical number, everyone says we're talking about a lot more than that. The other one's about being homeless. It should be noted that after the change of regime, it was not typical for us to face the fact that there are homeless people in rural areas and small settlements. We can now see that it can happen in my district - although I am not an elected Member in an individual area, but I am also a Member, honourable Member, as you are - there are already homeless, very, very poor people in settlements with thousands of people and smaller settlements. Hungary has come this far, and this is what we should finally see. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-19-96	Thank you very much. Mr Attila Petneházy is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-03-19-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm forced to continue where I left off the previous agenda. I think, and I could go back days ago or in the last period, that many, many topics are increasingly being used by the opposition, unfortunately, are also being referred to by the word "cynicism" as my fellow Member, to hurt the other. I don't think that's gonna make me more and more right, the more people in this room you're gonna regret. I believe - and I hope I'm not naive, but I'm just an idealist - that when you express your opinion, you don't have to emphasize that you should list things that hurt each other as much as possible. So that's what cynicism meant, by the way, by my dear fellow Member here with me. I think that is precisely why they do not belong in such a way as to shake us into our pants, and such as that, as Mr Gúr said. And again, I think it's a serious slip to use a subject to declare the entire governing party socially insensitive. On behalf of those present, I can safely say, on behalf of all of us, but I certainly do reject this by far, and I think, as an individual Member of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, unfortunately, I always feel the greatest burden in my mind when it comes to meeting people in a really difficult social situation. So I think, on behalf of all of us, I can refuse that on this otherwise very difficult and important subject that we are talking about today, the governing party would be socially insensitive. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament, will be the next member of the MSZP Group to speak again. Here you go.
u2015-03-19-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. How do they shake themselves into their pants? Well, yeah. Once again, it would not be a problem, it would be for the good of this country if they did not talk about things, but did. You know, I'll give you an example, and you think about it, if I'm wrong, despise me for it. What I'm saying is...
u2015-03-19-100	Mr. Note, I'm sorry to interrupt. He's speaking again. If it is not about the Ombudsman's report or the Commission's report prepared for it, it is my duty to withdraw the floor from you. As a notary, who is responsible for ensuring that legality goes according to its order here, I think, in particular, you know that.
u2015-03-19-101	I'm aware of that, and that's what I'm doing. So to finish the sentence: despise me for it, but you know, when in the House walls, let's say, from the presidency, you can say, "Shut up!" I would like to know what you have voted on, then I think a opposition representative can afford to say in a good way, encouragingly, because of the way things are done in the interests of people, to shake themselves into their pants. Well, it's one of those things, you know, that stimulates me, and it takes me in the direction of being better than it is right now. Protecting patients' rights, Mr. President. In fact, it appears in this ombudsmanial, fundamental rights commissioner's report - I am only suggesting that you have no objections to what I am talking about. With regard to the state of health, I would like to say that, if you have already had a crack at the previous comments, you have to know that the problems arise again from the starting point of view. In terms of investment in EU funds, we need to look at how and how financial conditions have developed over the last few years with regard to health, with regard to domestic budgetary resources. We need to see how the doctors' remuneration is going. You have to look at what the assistance's remuneration looks like, or what the assistance's remuneration looks like. You can't be too proud of this thing, this thing. It is necessary to look at what the development of waiting lists looks like and to see who and how they can access services. Let's say that the situation is true and real, which is what the report is about, and what we often talk about, for example, that in the complexly disadvantaged areas, you know, in those thirty-three most disadvantaged areas, what the quality of health care is, what its extent is, what its equipment is, what it is, what it is, what it is like, and what it is like to compare it with the fact that on this 93,000 square kilometres - which is not too big, but what it is called Hungary - there are great differences, how different the characteristics are, how and how there can be equal access and much else to talk about. What I want to tell you is that when we are talking about poverty, poverty, poverty and other issues, I would be able to line up a lot more of these items, because these contradictions lie behind the fact that anyone who is disadvantaged on account of regional or individual circumstances is very difficult to come out of these conditions without providing a helping hand. [[15.50]] I think you pro-government politicians should do more by saying that if I look at these differences territorially, the scissors should be closed in terms of territorial differences rather than opening or letting them open. If I approach the matter in terms of personal abilities or limitations, then how and how they can free the multitude of people from these situations. And the problem, you know, my fellow Member, is that I feel that I am seeing it, and to me, the report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights also confirms that this is not the direction the story is going, but the problems are deepening. I just mentioned a figure, in 2009, the issue of child poverty reached 21 percent, i.e. 380,000 children affected by poverty. And in 2012, as I said, every second child lacks some form. And, you know, unfortunately, this deprivation right there, right there, in the most disadvantaged areas, is what I'm talking about. In Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, about half of the involvement of these two counties appears within the whole problem. Half of the 33 underprivileged small regions are in these two counties, and in the disadvantaged, most disadvantaged regions in the counties, the problems are cumulative. I said to the Commissioner's report that, when 347 out of 6977 cases appear from Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, around 280 is what from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, then this is the tip of the iceberg, because where and where poverty, poverty, and many problems are like the size it takes, it is obviously that living with these opportunities is also limited. So, shaking your pants in this sense is a good encouragement, my fellow Member. I, too, urge all of us, to have a social consensus on these issues, to reach a level of agreement at the political level that will bring positive progress on these issues. And it's fitting, and I think it's a duty for everyone to keep it. But that's not what I'm seeing today. Government politicians, I'm afraid I have to say, or I don't think they have the guts to take on this thing. They're going after something or someone, it doesn't matter, and they're not looking at the problem that's in front of you before we do it, and they're not trying to get in the right way. The other part I would like to talk about here, and I have not yet talked about it, is the issue of the possibility of working for you. It is also part of the Commissioner's report. I am only saying this, Mr President, so that the interfaces are clear and clear to all of us.
u2015-03-19-102	However, I would like to ask you, with respect, to speak less, to concentrate on what you are saying.
u2015-03-19-103	Thank you very much. I respectfully address you now, Mr President, with respect. So in terms of employment opportunities, in general, it is not easy for people to work in Hungary, in general, because of a number of things. On the one hand, because your five-year-old promise didn't turn into anything that was about a million new tax-paying jobs, taxpayers, non-public employment, a million new tax-paying jobs. Nothing has happened in this respect, and in practice not only young people, which are exposed to the Commissioner's report, but also, in general, the possibility of working is in a corner. In the case of young people, this has become even more true, even more so. It is no coincidence that in the circle of economic refugees who have left this country hundreds of thousands of thousands of times, hundreds of thousands of thousands of people are present - quoted in quotes - to young people under 40 years of age. Because they do not see the possibility of living here in Hungary. Another part is that you, in the spirit of the service state, crushed the network system, I mean the network system of labour markets, which could and could have provided a helping hand later on. This system is purged to its elements today, in this sense it is able to provide less helping hands. But if we are talking about employment, it is public employment that can present the right results on the stage of statistics production. Public employment also has a pro and versus role in the development of poverty. You're always saying that people in public employment get more money than when they get aid. Right. But they never tell the other half. I'll tell them to try to think about it and change that. For the first time today, the public worker receives 47 thousand - Zsiga Marcell - net, hands-on money for 52 thousand forints today. Five years ago, the public employee received HUF 60 200 per net hand, which was worth more than HUF 10,000, but 20 per cent of inflation. In other words, with their two-thirds government, the value of their money and purchasing power from the people employed in the public sector, with which they went into the shop, they took away one third of it. This is not the way to run two thirds to take away one third of the people's money! These are the most needy people in the world. You don't have to do public employment by firing the public servant and turning him into a public employee and performing public service duties. I can give you examples, personals. It is not necessary to operate this world in a way where I announce on the large paces that the minimum wage is rising; of course, its gross is rising, which means extra contributions for the employer and the employee, and this minimum wage was five thousand forints less than in 2010. Well, it's that simple. You don't have to think people are stupid, you have to give them a helping hand right where, right where they live their lives in the most needy situation. And, you know, as long as more than half of the people in this country who have a job are earning their income under the minimum wage, this is the level of income that we all have, but especially those on the government, have to do. Because it's an unacceptable condition, no such thing. And in line with this, obviously, if we are talking about social inclusion or anything else - including the Roma strategy - then we must pay attention to saying, let us say, that we are not going to make investments in order to buy two hundred-and-a-half million forints headquarters for someone or someone, rent a car every month for 500 thousand forints, and I do not want to say a multitude of examples, but that the resources, the money, get to where this is most needed. So for the people affected, who experience their everyday life under pretty tough, tight conditions. And we're not talking about gypsy or gypsy people here, no, we're talking about every person on the stage of poverty or on the stage of poverty. 'Cause the whole point of the story is that there are rights and obligations, the harmony of which must be created, and this is not a Gypsy or non-Gypsy issue. We are talking about the poor living in Hungary, and I believe that these people can be helped in a moderate way by the government providing access to knowledge not only in the same way as en bloc, but also in the same way. Because it is likely that it will be less able to avail itself of the opportunities provided than, where appropriate, the children of better parents. Secondly, in addition to ensuring the availability of knowledge in the labour market, non-negative discrimination should be applied in terms of access to the labour market, crowding out of registers, reducing benefits, many other things, but, if possible, to apply positive discrimination to a sense that does not create positive discrimination by putting others at an absolute disadvantage, but by having win-win projects, they know that, for example, if men can retire after 40 years of eligibility, the opening jobs will give young people the opportunity to participate in the world of work. And many other examples could be said. But this is also true of the system of health care, which I started thinking about, or the system of designing or shaping housing conditions. [[16.00]] You know, to sum up the story, I think that it is necessary to create conditions, provide conditions in which people earn no less than, say, five years ago, 47,000 minimum wage values less purchasing power; they do not lose money, or the scissors do not open within the limits of the money they have acquired and the minimum living. And I'm not going up to the average salary level, just for one sentence: in the case of civil servants, after five years, it might be appropriate to change the civil servants' salary base, because since then 38 650 HUF has been unchanged for five years. Since the regime change, there has not been a government cycle, even the first Orbán government, during which period the civil servant's salary fund would not have changed. Now, these are the things to think about, and then to create a million new jobs in the economy, tax-paying jobs. If there are one million jobs, then there are no 2,2 million people earning a minimum living, then there are no 500-600 thousand economic refugees in the country, and then there is no need to talk about these issues, but rather about forward-looking issues. And it's not cynicism, it's a fact. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-19-104	I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. It is now possible to conclude with the authors of the report or the proposal for a decision. First, I would like to ask Commissioner László Székely if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. I will ask Mr Demeter, as rapporteur for the Justice Committee, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-105	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, thank you very much, Commissioner and colleagues, for the work done, for the report, and, of course, thank you very much for your criticism. I thought that there were some items on the agenda, even here in Parliament or here in this Chamber, which, at the time of the hearing, you might be a little more modest and perhaps a little more self-conscious. These were the two items on the agenda today: the first item on the agenda when we talked about the Bethlen Foundation, when we talked about the situation of Hungarians across the border, or perhaps about our national consciousness. This is also the second item on the agenda when we listened to the reports of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputy. Instead, instead of looking at yourself, we heard a lecturer, I can safely say, even if you are applauding, cynical, pompous and occasionally rubbing good taste...
u2015-03-19-106	Congressman, I'd like to ask you to choose your signalling device.
u2015-03-19-107	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. ... also speeches; so that we have heard teaching speeches, for example from Jobbik: listen, listen carefully, and I will tell you how to do this. Or: there is great poverty, and they do nothing about it," says the MSZP benches. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The opposition is critical. It's terrible.]] I believe that at a time when Mr Gúr makes up the ideas of how much poverty there is in this country, and that the cause of this is, of course, today's governing party and today's Fidesz KDNP MEPs, while certainly not asking themselves what it has done between 2002 and 2010. I hear from you that you don't have to look back, you don't have to deal with the past, but unfortunately, you left a ruin on the Fidesz-KDNP government in 2010 that had to build the country from ruins. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] and you have driven people into debt, foreign currency loans, and there has been a need to clean up this area, and many other areas. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] Mr President, you also had the opportunity to speak, so allow me to make a final remark on what has been said. [[Nándor Gúr and Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Take part in the debate.]] So constructive criticism is important, but that's not what you're saying. However, I ask you with great respect, because the committee maintains the proposal for a resolution, and I ask that, when we vote on it, you support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it was possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. today. I hope whoever wanted to live with it could live with it. Thank you, Commissioner, for your presence. Thank you for the presence of your coworkers. Now I'm ordering a five-minute technical break, and we'll continue our session from there. [[Pause: 16.06-16.11President: Dr. János LatorcaiPersons: Lorántné Hegedűs and József Attila Móring]]
u2015-03-19-109	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. The general debate on the proposal for a parliamentary decision on the National Disability Programme 2015-2025 will follow. The submission is H/3586. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-19-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, According to data from the 2011 census, more than 490 thousand people consider themselves disabled in Hungary today. Based on this data, we can say that there are nearly two million people in our country whose life, living conditions and quality of life are fundamentally affected by the disability of a family member. The programme before you therefore not only aims to improve the living and quality of life of people with disabilities, but also to support and strengthen all families in which people with disabilities live, and it is even important to point out that the issue of helping people with disabilities is not only a matter of people with disabilities and their families, but of the whole Hungarian society and our nation. Only a strong Hungary can be built with the social inclusion of people with disabilities. Therefore, the programme before you sets out the principles of the Government's policies on people with disabilities. I would just like to highlight a few of these now and to mention them with a particular emphasis. One of these principles, which we consider important, is self-determination. People with disabilities are not subject to charity, but are holders of rights, autonomous, independent individuals with independent will, and public and governmental actions must therefore, above all, promote the involvement of the institutional system and society not in decisions and activities rather than in the place of people with disabilities, but in order for people with disabilities to exercise them themselves by preserving their human dignity. The principle of self-determination must also be enforced with regard to the free formulation of the opinion, the decision-making and the declaration of self-determination, and the corresponding action. The other important principle that defines government policies is social participation, full and effective participation in society. All administrative measures involving persons with disabilities should be a fundamental assessment criterion and aim to ensure that people with disabilities can enjoy the same level of political, economic and social rights as others at all stages of their life and in all areas of their life, through institutions, services, benefits used by the majority, as active, visible citizens of their communities. The third important principle to be highlighted is the principle of universal design. This principle means designing products, built environments, various benefits and services in such a way that they are already accessible to all people to the fullest possible extent, without the need for subsequent adaptation or special planning. I'm going to mention two more principles. One of the important principles, along which this program has also been created, is the principle of "nothing about us." In the planning and implementation of legislation, programmes and programmes involving persons with disabilities, it is even more necessary to ensure that people with disabilities are able to express their views on the content of the relevant public, government action, either in their own right or through their own elected representatives, and to involve them, and to ensure that they can actively contribute to it. Finally, another important principle: non-discrimination and justified preference. In preparing, designing and implementing decisions, legislation, policies, programmes and programmes involving persons with disabilities, special emphasis should be given to the prohibition of discrimination by law and, given the fact that people with disabilities are less able to avail themselves of their rights on the same basis as others in certain cases, they should, where appropriate, be able to benefit from a proportionate and fair preference. XXVI of 1998 on the rights and equal opportunities of persons with disabilities Law 26 § 2 of the Act provides for a national disability programme. The authorisation provided for by law provides a legal basis for the decision submitted to you and the national disability programme attached to it. Mr President, Dear House, This programme is the most important strategic document of the Hungarian disability policy, which has been developed and its professional lines defined with a wide range of civil and governmental involvement. In addition to the relevant fields of expertise, the members of the National Disability Council and the national advocacy organisations operating in the interest of persons with disabilities participated in the work in order to implement the above-mentioned principles and principles of compliance without us, conveying the government's view that a long-term strategic programme can only be prepared if the social organisations representing those concerned add their knowledge, experience and opinions to it. The long-term objective of the programme is to establish a complex framework accompanying the entire course of life of people with disabilities, which is capable of providing a basis and starting point for a genuine action plan to support the implementation of its provisions. The programme will cover in detail areas where intervention is needed to improve the living and quality of life of people with disabilities. It proposes the launch and initiative of professional developments to promote the social inclusion of people with disabilities. It reflects the view that we need to act together in order to enable people with disabilities to live in an environment that accepts and accepts them, which supports them in such a way that they leave and ensure freedom of self-employment to the fullest extent possible. It is important to emphasise that the preparation of the new programme has been based on the experience of the previous strategy period. In response to this, the programme will address the situation of multiple vulnerable groups - women with disabilities, children and people with multiple disabilities - and address the problems of families with disabilities in particular. In this way, the programme provides for the possibility for specific areas of expertise to include measures in the action plans to support the implementation of the strategy that reduce these shortcomings. [[16.20]] The programme is set out in a separate chapter, but accessibility is also seen as a horizontal aspect, offering individual sectors the opportunity to take measures to support the fundamental right of disabled people to access services without obstacles throughout the programme. The aim of the programme is therefore to point out anomalies and shortcomings in individual life situations, thus also seeking and offering solutions. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the following, I would like to highlight a few important points, a moment of both the decision and the programme's objectives. The programme decision shall contain the obligations which give rise to the actual implementation of the objectives set out in the programme, addressing the bodies entrusted with the role of the legislator and the enforcement activities in order to enforce the provisions of the programme in relation to their activities. It addresses and calls on the government to take into account the objectives set out in the programme when planning the central budget by the heads of the bodies supervising the headings concerned, so that the decision serves as a framework for the government, setting out how the programme will be implemented, including the deadline for drawing up the related action plan and the programme report. However, the recipients of the decision are not only government bodies, but also - by strengthening close cooperation with civil and interest protection and service organisations - they are also called upon to do their best to achieve the objectives set out in the programme. At the same time, the programme calls on the heads of the mass information bodies and their staff to participate in the programme's presentation, as information shortages and isolation are one of the main obstacles to resolving the complex problems of people with disabilities and their families, as included in the programme. The programme addresses and encourages people with disabilities to take an active and proactive role by enforcing their rights, thereby strengthening the principle of "nothing about us" as one of the basic principles of the programme, according to which people with disabilities must be involved in decisions involving disabled persons. In order to emphasise the importance of the strategy, its forward-looking orientations, by way of derogation from the structure of previous programmes, the programme's preamble outlines and sets out the general objectives of the entire time span, the entire 11 years. The implementation of its rights is supported by the basic principles of the programme, with emphasis on those already mentioned: the principles of prevention, self-determination, full and effective social participation, universal planning, without us, the principle of non-discrimination, justified preference, subsidiarity and reasonable adaptation. Chapter 3 of the Strategy sets out the areas of action and thematic objectives of the Programme, setting out the steps to be taken, in particular in the fields of data collection, analysis, research, health policy, early development, education and training, employment policy, social services, complex rehabilitation, self-determination and self-living, transport, sport, culture, tourism, and accessibility. It is also intended to provide answers in order to provide relevant and up-to-date information on areas that are still unexplored today, including persons with psychosocial and speech disabilities. To this end, the programme provides for the launch of research and data collections to provide the basis for actions relating to persons with disabilities. As a priority, the programme sets out the formulation of measures aimed at establishing an early diagnosis effectively, the provision of the necessary personal and material conditions and the development of associated professional protocols. The programme sets out the strengthening of cooperation and prevention in the field of early childhood intervention and the establishment of an easily interoperable and transparent client path within the framework of the health care system. The programme states that the priority in the area of health care is the development of independent, uniform protocols, which are linked to the specific characteristics of disability, which help to ensure a smooth, professional basis for the provision of healthcare to people with disabilities. In view of the continuing development of disability-related professional guidelines, unlike the previous programme, assistance tools to support medical aids and lifestyles, stressing their equal relevance, are reflected in the programme in a set of supporting technology tools. It sets out, as a task, a clear and clear definition of the definitions of the two types of instruments, the definition of the conditions for access. In the system of public education, the programme addresses the importance of early development, proposes the development of a uniform set of procedures and a transparent client path, and the development of access to the service, in order to ensure a level playing field and efficient care. The programme envisages the possibility of developing a mobile pedagogical network, proposing infrastructure, methodology and human resources developments to underpin inclusive education. In order to improve the labour market situation of young people with special needs, the programme proposes to improve the infrastructure conditions of vocational and adult vocational schools and training institutions, as well as to provide incentives for as many young people as possible to attend training and training institutions and to be trained by better prepared teachers. The programme highlights the promotion of the participation of young people with disabilities in higher education and the wider dissemination of knowledge of disability in higher education. The programme highlights the need for greater recognition of the importance of access to career guidance for people with disabilities and the need to develop accessible forms of lifelong learning, skills development and talent management. The programme sets out targets for the employment of people with disabilities and disabilities in several points. Without the need for completeness, these are: labour market demand-supply assessment, the development of a network of organisations providing labour market services, teleworking, support for certain opportunities for part-time work, and the sensitivity of employers in this way, and the dissemination of atypical forms of employment, and the programme suggests the need to explore and support opportunities for accessible work. In the planning cycle of implementation of the programme, the main objective is to further develop and strengthen basic social services, including the full availability of services to the majority locally and at home, the capacity building of child welfare and basic social services. The programme states that the provision and assistance of people in need of long-term care and care in the home environment is more favourable to both the individual and society than institutional care, and therefore the primary aim is to create a service environment to help them stay in the family. Accordingly, local care systems should be strengthened and the territorial coverage of family-friendly services reviewed. [[16.30]] In addition, it is important to increase, increase and strengthen the capacity of support services and to strengthen, develop and renew their infrastructure. For the 11 years ahead, the programme envisages a development that supports the basic condition of complex rehabilitation, a timely and professional diagnosis and a qualification that is appropriate to the real situation. To this end, the legal and material conditions for the international classification of fitness, disability and health, the practical application of the FNO in rehabilitation institutions and health care systems should be established. In order to support the independent living of persons with disabilities, the functioning of the institution for supported decision-making should be monitored and, where necessary, the participants in the process should be adequately prepared. Based on the experience of the previous period and taking into account the provisions of the United Nations Convention, it is necessary to continue deinstitutionalisation of nursing institutions and to support improvements in the dissemination of assisted housing as a form of service. In order to reduce and prevent the burn-out of family members, special emphasis should be placed on helping and supporting mental health for family members with disabilities, developing existing services to support families, encouraging employers to return disabled family members to the open labour market. The national network of transport services should be developed to ensure that people with disabilities and disabilities are integrated into the labour market. With the principle of rational adaptation in mind, it is necessary to create a long-term national concept of improving the accessibility of services in local and local areas. The fundamental right of persons with disabilities to have access to leisure activities is the need to provide access to devices, tracks, sports facilities placed in community spaces, parks and playgrounds. There is also a need to support equal access to recreational public education facilities and tourist places. The implementation framework is clearly also set out in the programme. This implementation chapter states that the implementation of the programme should be subject to a double requirement: joint action of the entire relevant governmental spectrum, closely linked to this, should create effective professional coordination and continuous evaluation of implementation. Therefore, it will be important and essential for the government to allow inter-sectoral professional coordination of implementation by providing appropriate powers in the action plan, to monitor the implementation of the programme in a meaningful manner, in cooperation, of course, with the advocacy organisations of people with disabilities. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Finally, let me express my conviction that the goals and values set out in the programme and the fundamental values shared here by all of us, and we all believe that Hungary can only be strong and successful by creating social inclusion for people with disabilities. Please support the programme, the measures envisaged and their implementation. I'll thank you in advance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-111	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we begin speaking, allow me to pay tribute to Mr Paul Szekeres in box 4. Mr Pál Szekeres is the Minister for Social Integration Commissioner for Disabilities, and, of course, he also has a sports performance that is worthy of emphasis. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the speeches by the Members will be followed, including the speeches by the keynote speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gergely Tapolczai, whose speech will be made clear to you by means of sign interpreters. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-112	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, [[The sound system isn't working.]] Honourable Commissioner of Ministers,
u2015-03-19-113	My apologies, but there's no speaker on the override. My apologies, Congressman. I'll ask the technical staff if they want a moving microphone, or this microphone can be put on speaker. [[For signal:]] You can put it on speaker. [[Translator: Should I start again?]] Yeah. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-19-114	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you once again, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Commissioner of Ministers, Here lies the national disability programme in the proposal for a decision for the years 2015 to 2025. We all know that disability is an area that covers all areas of life, and an area where it can never be met, we always have to do more and more, it will never be enough. Demands are also constantly changing, not only through technological progress and not only through the approach - the previous social approach has been replaced by the human rights approach - but also by changes in the various interest-protection efforts. These must always be followed in the legislative process and in the formulation of the objectives. Since the 1998 Equal Opportunities Act, this is the third national disability programme that we have been discussing in Parliament. If anyone asks whether a national disability programme is necessary, the answer is clearly yes. When I read this proposal, I looked at the proposal through family glasses and what I had received in the past, what my family had received through disability programs, and what my children would expect from this program in the future. It was a bit of an exaggeration, but I can say that in the pre-1998 period there was no disability, rather the social approach, the social network was typical, and this was reflected in the care system. Since the 1998 Law, we have really talked about disability policy. Allow me to recall a little bit what we have achieved in recent years through the National Disability Programme. In the last cycle, priority areas were social thinking, improving the quality of life of people with disabilities and their families, improving the active participation of people with disabilities in society and rehabilitation. These were the emphasis points. This has led to different measures, such as the launch of different equal opportunities programmes in the field of social awareness-raising, the increase in the number of integrated schools, the integration of disability skills into teacher training, teacher training or even tourism providers. [[16.40]] In improving quality of life, we have seen the expansion of accessibility and the expansion of adult education programmes. The development of the lending system for aids, technical tools and life-support tools, and the development of personal assistance, such as in the Swallow programme. For example, active participation in society has been greatly supported by the Sign Language Act, which has increased the number of programmes subtitled, as well as the training of assistance dogs and the launch of supported decision-making. The development of complex rehabilitation of autistics is not negligible either. Another important step was to change the concept of a disabled person to the law, so that the group of people with chromosome aberrations, such as the Williams syndrome group, were included in the conceptual category of the disabled person, thereby making them eligible for disability support and the families living with them eligible for the increased family allowance. The National Disability Council has also expanded with the amendment of the legislation, as a group of people with psychosocial disabilities and a group of people with speech disability have been included, thereby providing targeted support from the budget to the advocacy organisations in these areas of disability. We can also talk about replacing institutional spaces. A 30-year strategic plan has been drawn up on this, which is of great importance for disability. We can also talk about accessibility of public services and equal access, which we supported in the framework of the TIFP project, which has been an important measure in recent years. The development of the transport infocommunication system can also be mentioned. I can sense it myself in everyday traffic. I can't even compare how much more information I've been getting in my daily transport lately. Bilingual education in the education of children with hearing disabilities is important, and the development of the bilingual teaching method has also started in recent years. We can also talk about the continued promotion of disabled people's sport and the training and further training of professionals involved in disabled people's sport. The RV programme also has the same emphasis, which has helped people with disabilities to continue their training in order to improve opportunities in the labour market. It was also a positive initiative for students with disabilities to launch an administrative scholarship. We can be very proud of the launch of the so-called contact video interpreter service, which also helps to improve the quality of life of people with hearing disabilities. I mentioned the expansion of the car acquisition aid, and several disability groups were entitled to use this support. I could give you a long list of achievements, but I would stress, as I said at the beginning, that this is still not enough, we have a lot to do in the future. Let's see what we expect from the current program. From my own children's point of view, and from my point of view, I can see what we can expect for the next ten years, what this program can do to help. I would also like to highlight the principles and prevention. Without it, people with disabilities are very soon behind. The principle of self-determination is important so that people with disabilities can decide their own lives. And I think that one of the simplest principles in the world is the principle of universal design, and that is another issue, of course, that practical implementation is not easy. But the principle is so simple that, starting from the smartphone to the buildings, everything should be designed to be good and useful for everyone, starting from mothers to the elderly. The same important principle is the principle of "nothing about us" without us, and I would like to recommend it again to the other parties. Because I would very much like to and would like to argue with my fellow political and disabled fates in the colours of different parties, and I hope that this is also the time to come. Not least, the principle of reasonable adaptation is also important. I would like to highlight a few areas of the programme, and I also see from the point of view of my own children the importance of early recognition, the task of early development. One example: we are raising four children, three hearing impaired children, and the fourth is a two-month-old baby, and we do not really know if she is hearing impaired or not. It doesn't bother us, but I can imagine that in the case of intact parents, it may be an exciting question whether or not your child is disabled. The so-called inclusive education is equally important for us and for our fellow fatefuls. I myself grew up in segregation, fortunately it was a positive segregation, not the school of the deaf behind God's back, but in the middle of the city, and then I went to an integrated educational institution, but it was not inclusive, I did not receive interpretation, recording service, anything, but at least I could participate in integrated. The direction is perfect: to be inclusive education, to be inclusive employment, and thus to become an inclusive society. To this end, it is very important to sensitize society and to develop social awareness. After all, the more kindergartens, schools, secondary schools and universities receive information from young people and show them our world, the more positive society will be towards us in the future. An example: this afternoon, at the National University of Public Service, there was a lecture on autism. The future public servants have a training course to give them knowledge of disability, and next week I'm going to be giving them a lecture on hearing impaired ones. One more topic: employment. I don't want to get into it, I see I don't have time for it, but my personal opinion is that it would be ideal if employers didn't need any support, wage support, employment support, but employed disabled workers in the same way as others. But I know it's a long way from here. However, I think that this is what we need to approach, and therefore we need to do everything we can with the help of different support schemes. I also stress the importance of supported decision-making. We need to look at the experience that has been experienced so far and how this system can be further developed. One more important thing: the flow of information between different professional sub-areas, the interconnection of different sub-areas. I also have to mention one omission: since 2009, we have been failing in terms of the statutory obligation to provide basic information to parents of children with disabilities in any form. [[16.50]] In conclusion, let me stress that this disability programme is a framework that needs to be filled with content. This is what the future action plan will serve. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Disabilities, I will offer cooperation in the preparation of the action plan and will monitor the implementation and implementation of this programme in any case over the next three years. My time is up. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-19-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Lajos Korózs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-116	Thank you very much. I respectfully welcome all the people in this House. First of all, I would like to point out that, despite my later critical comments, I support the adoption of this programme. I would also like to point out that this is the third programme that we are discussing before the Parliament. This has already been the case twice in recent decades. The previous decision was similar, but for example it included a date on which the government would have to adopt the first plan of measures. It only says that in three months. This could be constitutive with an amendment. I am also looking forward to it, as is my colleague from Tapolcza, the action plan. According to the preamble of the programme, Hungary has taken significant legislative steps in recent years and decades to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, to promote their independent life and social integration. I think that the tens of thousands of invalids who have been reduced, taken away or reduced in terms of conversions would argue with this sentence. The following should be highlighted from the section on the assessment of the situation. With regard to employment, it is said that the measures taken so far - both the transformation of accredited employment and the introduction of a rehabilitation card - have proved to be effective. I don't know how they can back this up, because according to the data, very few people are still able to get a job, and many people are left without care. The following data can be found in one part of the substance. In the 2014 domestic application for wage and cost support, 325 organisations received support for the employment of 30 524 people, of which 25 182 people received permanent employment support for employers and 5342 for transit employment. In July 2014, 29,463 people were employed with the rehabilitation card in 8211 companies. The ideal situation, of course, would be what Congressman Tapolczai said if we did not have to encourage employers to employ people with disabilities or disabilities, but it is still a long time. In the section on housing and basic social services, the programme states that it is also an important profession policy to help people with disabilities in the family with community-based services, social basic services and high-quality housing services so that they can live their lives without forced displacement. The text is all right, and I will just mention that, as of 1 March, the fair treatment fee was just abolished, Mr Secretary of State, which helped care for senior relatives and has also been tightened up recently on the rules of home care. In relation to accessibility, it is described as a major problem that accessibility aspects are not or only partially met in the design of new buildings and services, or in the restructuring or restructuring of existing ones, so that the problem is constantly regenerating itself. It is also noted that the highly different standards of accessibility solutions require intervention, both in terms of usability and cost-effectiveness. There's a lot to talk about. The following should also be highlighted in the context of concrete interventions. In the healthcare section, it is reported that access to medical aids and lifestyle aids and a full overview of the distribution system are one of the main objectives of the programme. They then write about goals, such as clarification of definitions, which were included in the previous programme, or have started or started according to the implementation report. True, this is also clear from the fact that the transformation of the medical aid supply and rental system is nowhere to be found. But elsewhere, it is typical of the material to set goals that were already included in the previous programme. This is all just another recognition of the fact that the government is not making progress in the area of disability and is repeating itself instead of actions. At higher education, it is said, as Mr Tapolczai mentioned, that the personal conditions for introducing the bilingual educational method must be established and that there should be provision for continuous supplies adapted to the needs. It was also included, almost literally, in the previous program. Here, I note, we had to wait more than a year for this programme to be submitted compared to the previous programme. I'm sure I understand the part about having to switch personnel at the Ministry in order to get competent people into senior management. But we're happy to discuss this program here. As regards the social area, it is described how important it is to develop basic services and to develop and expand the provision of periodic supervision and assistance services in the home of a disabled person in order to prevent the burn-out and social and labour market reintegration of a child with disabilities or an adult. The latter has already been included in the action plans. Compared to this, we see that they are eliminating public health care, fair care, and even significantly tightening the criteria for eligibility for home assistance. Dear House, I have to get to the complex rehabilitation case. You write the following: the complex rehabilitation system cannot be imagined without the effective interconnection of individual areas, in particular health, elementary and employment rehabilitation. For this reason, the main task of the period indicated by the programme is to establish links and ensure that each rehabilitation phase is brought together as a single patient and client path for the person concerned. For example, if it hasn't been created yet, how can you seriously think that individuals who have been rehabilitated can be rehabilitated while this whole process line is not yet being created? But this was not, in my opinion, the greatest blow in the rehabilitation of people with disabilities or disabilities. The biggest blow was when Gábor Pósfai was appointed head of NRSR, but thank God he's not there anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In the section on people with disabilities and their families, it is said that relatives often undertake to help people with disabilities at the expense of losing their jobs, as a result of which the family income is drastically reduced, their standard of living is deteriorating, and therefore it is particularly important to encourage employers to support workers with disabilities through special measures such as part-time employment, working at home or flexible working hours in order to reintegrate their relatives into the labour market. Another important area is accessibility. In this context, it is stated that it is necessary to create a national concept of improving the accessibility of services in local and inter-local areas, which, in addition to the accessibility of vehicles, focuses on passenger traffic facilities and the provision of services to facilitate accessibility. Compared to this, we know from the report how many stations in rail transport only accessible passenger spaces and toilets have been built. [[17.00]] It is not the case that an accessible environment is important not only for people with disabilities, but also for older people, difficult users and parents who use strollers. It is worth adding that the time limits for accessibility were removed from the disability law in 2013, saying that it is not appropriate to set new deadlines in the law. I will note only in parentheses after I should have completed the accessibility of all public buildings first by 2005 and then by 2013. We've got our hands full in this, and I have to admit it. At accessibility, it is reported that the aim is to establish an information and service system that helps organisations involved in accessibility obligations to store, evaluate, expand data on accessibility surveys, collect and present good practices, and provide technical and service management advice and thus improve accessibility standards. This has been mentioned before, and even the EMMI's accessibility website, which was written in the report, does not work. Now I'm going to get to the last chapter. In the last chapter, they write about implementation. There is no mention here of what was a separate chapter in the previous national programme, what is going on with the financial resources needed to achieve the objectives set. I put at least three exclamation marks here for myself. There is also no mention of the institutions that were previously included in a separate section, so the National Disability Council does not appear either. Dear House, Unfortunately, the programme does not give any indication of where it wants to go in any of the areas of intervention, there are no quantified targets; as the text of the decision points out, the development and application of indicators will be the government's competence. This will presumably mean that it will set quantified targets that can be achieved. There are a number of cases that do not appear or are only in broad lines, although, according to the report, the action taken in the area should continue. It's true, it's not even a concrete action plan that we have ahead of us, I'll give you that. Some of the topics are: implementation of ideas on the personal rehabilitation of visually impaired people, programs to assist autistic people, extension of the subject's public health care. It is not clear how many public institutions still need accessibility in total. Summa summarum, the Hungarian Socialist Party, considers the support of people with disabilities and their families to be of particular importance, which is why we support this programme. Thank you so much for listening. Goodbye. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2015-03-19-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Végó Sebestyén. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I would like to start by saying that the Jobbik Group also considers the situation of persons with disabilities and their relatives and families to be important, and therefore, although I have critical comments on the programme, we will, of course, support the adoption of the proposal for a decision. My first critical remark is why this program is now in front of the Parliament. The previous programme, the new disability programme, expired in 2013. If we take into account that we have just had the first draft in three months, then we can say that the actual implementation of this will not start before the sixth month of 2015, so it is already lame that the programme will start in 2015 because it will be able to start in July 2015 and August 2015. The second is what was in 2014 because the previous programme expired in 2013. There are nice wordings and nice sentences in this program, but if you compare them with the previous disability program, I'm missing something. One of the things we've heard before is that we're missing the source designation. So what is written in the programme, and I still welcome it, requires a great deal of additional resources to be included in the system financially, but we do not really see the coverage of it in this programme. I also miss the fact that it does not include a certain deadline for commitments or the limit for achieving the objective set. I guess that's because from previous disability programs, they figured out that they were setting unenforceable goals, and that's who knows when that's gonna happen. So, more so, just like in the law, times and deadlines have been missed, we can talk about accessibility. It is an interesting question, however, how we stand with the accessibility of public institutions, what is the situation here, what is the actual accessibility, and what is not. 'Cause as an example, I always mention the beautiful building we're in right now. This is the Parliament building, and before the reconstruction of Kossuth tér, he announced with great signs that it was a completely 100% barrier-free building. Compared to that, I could say it on account of personal involvement, but to mention one or two examples: there is no accessible access to Jobbik's Group Office, there is also no accessible access to the rooms of the Defence and Police Committee, and what is most outrageous, the medical office is not accessible in the Parliament building. From now on, with the installation of the new basement parts, one or two objects may be accessible, but when the board was still present, these vital parts were not at all accessible, and some of them still are not. So from now on, if we encounter such conditions in the accessibility advertised with the board, then the question is, what is the situation nationwide and what is the situation with regard to how many other public institutions are not accessible. Here I would say that we also welcome the introduction of reasonable accessibility. It is good that this part is included, because you have to look at accessibility in a complex way, how to take what away from it, how to do it. If, let's say, it is a historic building, and only by destroying the nature of the monument can accessibility be achieved, then whether or not it can be done. In addition, expenditure and effectiveness can be considered on these issues. It's a question of employment. Sensitivity as a concept is already a good thing in the disability programme with other structures. I have already said in the previous debate that it is possible that there is a motivating force that if a person does not employ a disabled person, he may be sanctioned, or he may be motivated, that if he employs a disabled person, he may be able to obtain additional benefits or additional resources. But the question is, is that enough? I think that this part of the disability employment concept has been over-emphasised in the current situation. I agree with my fellow Member, Gergely Tapolczai, that the goal to be achieved is not to need such ones, but to have an inside demand from employers to employ people with changed job skills or disabilities. But even the sensitivity won't be enough. On the one hand, the aim to be achieved is to ensure that, as a result of sensitivity, the employer has the responsibility for social solidarity, that people with disabilities are employed, but also that they are motivated and not motivated from a material point of view in terms of employment. By the way, I say the simple example, taking out even a disability and a job, that people in assembly plants have to do very monotonous work, doing the same workflow almost all day, for example, the best way to do this is to have a person living with autism, who is just supposed to do the same process for up to eight hours. So if, not only by means of a sensitizing, but also by means of a motivational programme, employers are drawn to the attention of certain types of disability in other aspects, in other skills, and how much more useful they could be in their own territory, or if they could be more financially useful in employing a person with a disability, then this could also help. So it would be complex, and that way we could achieve the goal of not having to support these employers with other financial incentive schemes, but of having an internal need for people with disabilities. [[17.10]] Because, unfortunately, in the current system, we can get there, even by increasing the rate of the rehabilitation contribution, that people with disabilities become stigmatized in a working environment surrounded by their intact counterparts. In addition, employers often insist on this, in fact stigmatizing that you are here as one of the twenty-five people so that the boss does not have to pay a rehabilitation contribution. So this system could be helped not only through the introduction of sensitizers, but also by the introduction of motivational programmes. And speaking of education, for example, with the need for completeness, there is no way to discuss this programme, because then we could argue here until morning, and I just wanted to highlight one or two crucial points. In terms of public education, it is possible to argue about what is more beneficial, integrated or segmented education, and I am clearly a fan of integrated education, but not in the form that this process has worked since it came into operation in Hungary. Reasonableness should also be taken into account in integration, and yes, there are subjects - even if we look at a public education institution, a primary school - that can be taught in an integrated way. I am not talking directly about forms of disability, because this can be different for each form of disability, there are some that can be taught in an integrated way, but there are areas that should be taught in segregation and integration within an institution. The goal that we want to achieve with integrated education could be achieved, because in community occupations, as well as in areas that can be taught in an integrated way, together with the people with disabilities, they would be part of a community, but they would not hinder one another, nor the disabled in their special training, nor the disabled in their intact companion, perhaps in the absence of skills that might cause shocks in the life of a class. So I think that these issues should be taken into account in the matter of integration and segregation. And while we are on the subject of education, integrated education is the goal, compared to which we almost do not meet or very rarely meet special trainings for teachers in educational institutions, which would serve the purpose that in many cases a person with a disability in integrated education - sorry for the wording - the teacher cannot do anything; he does not know how to get involved; he does not know how to communicate with him; he does not know how to help him not to help; what is the point, while he can go away with either a person with physical or sensory disabilities, what is the limit he can cross; what are the special things he has to pay attention to, I say, in terms of communication or everyday life. This is a serious task, and we do need to prepare teachers working in public education for this. I think it is a good goal, and I think it is a good wording in the programme to support the family and to support it in its own living environment, but the problem is that in everyday processes, government and legislative processes, I see the opposite. I do not want to squander what we have heard before, either, that access to certain services is falling, that in recent years there have been services that have not increased significantly in terms of the amount of money available, that we can take care fees here, or that the financing of certain services has been reduced for the 2015 budget, and that, with this reduction, we can only achieve that these processes, which are supported by a well-functioning social care system, could become operational. I hope, by the way, that what is included in the programme is that the development of support services will actually happen. The only problem is that if there are only promises in the programme, whether they are set without a deadline or without a range, they will remain horse-zung, and unfortunately we will not see them in the implementation. Don't be right, by the way, I'm hoping that I won't be right, but unfortunately, I see the opposite processes. Further development of assisted housing should actually take place. The process of disinheriting the large number of institutions in the segmented area must be continued, I say that it may even be a little more intense than it started, but we hope that this will happen. Early recognition is included in the programme, even before education, which I welcome by the way, and early development, because there we can prevent delays that could even result in a lack of an education system for a disabled person. And here it is not necessarily necessary to think about intellectual disabilities, but also in other disabilities, the lack of early development can be a consequence of not being able to fit into an educational institution so that it cannot obtain the right qualifications. However, in the case of early development, we should not forget that health care should be part of the lifestyle education much more pronounced for a pregnant woman, or even earlier, whether it is in the educational system, that girls and ladies should be prepared for the fact that if they are in this blessed state, then what are the things they need to pay more attention to, because it is very often the injury at the time of pregnancy that causes disability after birth. That's what I miss about this program. What is still a very important issue is that if, through public education that is leaning towards current integration, accessible and easily accessible, a person with disabilities gets to the higher education institution, in many cases he may find himself in a more difficult situation than he was in public education institutions. By the way, there are very good initiatives. For example, I could say the University of Pécs, which operates its own support service, precisely to help students with disabilities, and this is also very effective, and the reason why many students with disabilities can take the challenges of higher education as easily as well or - college students are familiar with - it is difficult to take the challenges of higher education because this support service works. So I think that these initiatives should also be supported. I will make further comments in a next speech. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-19-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mrs Bernadett Szél. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-19-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, it is certainly gratifying that we can talk about this issue here in Parliament, given that we have now been waiting a year and a half for the national disability programme to be completed and presented to Parliament. So I could say that the Hungarian government was in a state of default infringement, and in this connection it did not fulfil the obligations imposed by the Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. By the way, I drew the government's attention to this several times in 2013 - it should have been submitted then - there was no explanation for the delay at the time. I trust that by now the government is in a state where it can deal with these issues in substance. This is somewhat contradicted by the fact that I had hoped for more from this material, because I think that if someone had slipped a little over a year and a half, it would have been worth using that time to surprise the Parliament with a thorough programme. What I am saying is also true if they promise that there will be a plan for action on concrete steps. Nevertheless, I think that if we are thinking in a ten-year period, then the very first topic that we need to consider in such a programme should be a very thorough assessment of the situation. Now, I can't skip the issue of employment as generously as they did from the government side here, because I think it's a cardinal issue, given that you were the ones who changed the whole support system and employment accreditation in 2012. [[17.20]] Their objective was precisely - at least what they said - to promote rehabilitation and access to the open labour market as opposed to the previous system. So if we plan for ten years in advance, we need to look at the state we are in now, and we can draw up further findings accordingly. Now, what we do know about employment is that according to the 2011 census, this is 14 percent. This is an important number because if we look at how much this has changed compared to the 2001 census, we can see that this is a 5 percentage point increase. I think this is a fund - we do not know from a ten-year strategy how employment has changed in recent years among people with disabilities who have changed their ability to work - so I miss this in any case. I think facing the government requires you to see these numbers accurately. I will also make further additions that I believe should have been included in the material, but I will go further, because in assessing the employment situation, the effectiveness of the employment support system will also be completely obscured. I think it would also be important to write this in the material because it was you, so it was Fidesz-KDNP who changed the situation and it has been several years since; it is modestly written that the measures taken so far have proved to be effective. I think you obviously thought that this meant an increase in employment, because I hear you say this a lot when you make a statement, but about actions, for example, and about the budgetary framework, about the number of per capita support, you are silent in this material. I understand why: because in 2011 we had HUF 37 billion a year, this year it has been reduced to HUF 29 billion, so in the country where there is money and luxury spending in the budget, much less money has been spent for this purpose. I think that this is certainly a very serious lesson, and it must be written in such a material, so those who have done so must assume the political responsibility for doing so. It is not difficult to calculate: if employment increases with falling resources, then the per capita aid will also decrease and indeed this has happened. Many of you may still remember that there was a rehabilitation subcommittee in the previous term, of which I was the last president. I am very sorry that this has ceased to work under the Employment and Labour Committee; it has also ceased since then; we now have a Committee on Enterprise Development, which is somewhat different. We met regularly in this committee, and it was a very important meeting point, we had ministers who came to us, as well as ministers of state, but most importantly, there were a lot of people involved, and there he was able to find out firsthand how government measures would influence their lives. I'm sorry this committee isn't here anymore. I have now looked at the disability committee on Parliament's website under the People's Welfare Committee, and I would ask my fellow Member Tapolcza to cooperate then, to convene the meetings and to talk about the problems that exist here in the plenary Chamber. I can no longer do this, because this committee has ceased to exist, but I think that there must be a working place in the Hungarian Parliament where we can consult regularly on the issues that we need to consult and talk about. I consider this to be very important, and I ask you to do so, to meet regularly instead of the committee, which no longer exists in the Hungarian Parliament. But back to the specific numbers. At the time, I worked hard to improve the relationship between employment and actions among people with disabilities and disabilities. One of my main criticisms was that, according to the system, the eight-hour daily employment is supported to the same extent as the four-hour period, which obviously means that it is only worth maintaining part-time jobs from the support, which is the direction in which the processes have been directed. Not to mention the fact that the state does not contribute to the labour costs and job transformation of the worker, so the employer has to manage this himself, which is another difficulty for the employer. I consider this to be fundamentally flawed, and - I have said a lot about this - it is also a faulty element in the system that it is not differentiated either in terms of degree of injury or degree. This means, in particular, that there is a distinction between transit and long-term employment, there is no intermediate category, although it is clear that the degree of injury varies according to the cost of employment. The other is - I was asked about this - that the level of support is not differentiated according to degree, i.e. support for the employment of a disabled person working in jobs requiring higher education is now one third less than before. I am curious to know whether I am getting information on this, whether there is any meaningful progress, because I have seen and received such feedback that the new system clearly encourages employers to employ low-skilled people with low levels of health impairment or low hours of disability. That is why it would have been important to learn about the average wage of employees in this material, because the earnings conditions, I think, greatly nuance the image that we can continue to work on this topic in the following, because they are now rather deplorable. If we go beyond the points of the programme, we still have to stop at social benefits. One of the worst changes to the last cycle was the abolition of the disability pension system. Technically, this is not in the programme, although, I think, this is a point that has shaken many of us, and I think, to this day, this country has not recovered from the fact that you have done so. What happened is that without any transition, people were deprived of pensions, their earned pensions, hundreds of thousands of people were distracted for forced review. A fraction of the previous supply has been reduced and they are on the labour market, where even people with non-disability are hard to cope with. I think that if we had done a disability strategy for ten years, it would have been expected that they would have described how these figures are now, so how many people are receiving care today, how much they are now. I looked at this: we are talking about 406 457 people who are entitled to care for people with disabilities. The fact is that according to December 2011 data, the average amount of disability pension was 73,000 HUF. Now we were able to see the amount of March 2014, and this was HUF 54 thousand, so this is a huge decrease in nominal and real terms. But people who are new to the system are in even worse situations, with even lower numbers: 27 900 forints, and 46 500 forints is the end of this supply, and the fact that part-time work is also available, so employment can only compensate for these low benefits in very part. Here's the pay limit, I'm telling you, it doesn't make any sense at all, because, quote, it's only good for keeping people suffering from health damage in poverty, which is unacceptable. What the program doesn't do - and I really miss it - is a time bomb in the system. I have repeatedly spoken about this because rehab supplies are set for a maximum of three years, and that is the time that beneficiaries will be involved in supported transit employment. What happens after three years? I have asked this question to your predecessor many times, and I have never received a reassuring answer. This year, we will find out what is happening, because this measure has come to a milestone, but it is clear that this system will guide employers in such a way that they will no longer have an interest in employing those people, since after three years they will not be able to receive support, and they will rather replace them with people who are newly supplied. I still remember that the original purpose of this measure was that people who received rehab are involved in employment rehabilitation, by the end of which they would be rehabilitated, which means that they would manage the labour market without any help. Now, what happened to that? It is important to see this because it would have taken real rehabilitation, individual rehabilitation plan, complex rehabilitation, but it didn't become anything, practically nothing happened. In the past, there were rehabilitation mentors, experts in the labour centres, and now I don't have any information about them, and the rehabilitation authorities don't provide any services on the labour market. The system of purchasing services from alternative labour market operators has not been established to date. This is basically what we see: if these people get out of care after three years, they do not get personalised help, it is a sure way to long-term unemployment. [[17 .30]] And the reason why it is very important to talk about this in 2015 is because this year the first three-year period expires, which is what I was talking about when I said it was a milestone, so this is a particularly current problem. Now that we are talking about this in Parliament, it is important to mention this. I'd like to add a few more sentences on accessibility, as much as my time allows. This is an interesting story because a national survey was carried out in the previous cycle, which was about the biggest attraction the government could show, and the accessibility of seven thousand public institutions was examined to provide credible data on the availability of the previous 15 billion EU funds. It ended up with a commission for 61 million people who had 106 days to do all this work, and that's why it wouldn't hurt to put the results in this material. So I would consider it important that this be seen in this program. I'm moving on. Unfortunately, in determining the areas and objectives of intervention, they were not able to break away from the generalities either. The word inclusion is indeed included in this program, but what I really miss is that they do not express their content. Because the reason we remember is that the pedagogical services were reorganized in the midst of scandals, and a lot of those involved were adversely affected by this restructuring. In nursery schools, kindergartens and schools, the development of children with special educational needs was discontinued, their parents were unable to pay for the medical pedagogical services needed for the development of their children, and in several cases they took away the development educator from seriously injured children. So it's one thing in the program, but I'd like to see the solution, because it's one thing to write down, but it should also be written on how you imagine it. The other thing that I have talked about a lot in the past, and that should also change over the next ten years, is that there is predictable funding for alternative labour market providers who deal with this issue, because these providers live on tender money and there is nothing predictable about their lives. There have been a lot of problems - while I have served as President there - with these applications, and I would like to point out that these civil society organisations have great experience, huge methodological skills, and are able to help people with disabilities back into the labour market in a large proportion. I would also like to ask that predictability work in the system. I still have time, two questions, one is that when we talk about social benefits, the programme identifies the development of basic social services as a goal. This is also a question in which they say otherwise and do something else, because in recent years the capacity of institutions providing day care for people with disabilities has not increased, so it would be necessary to restore normative funding. And the other is a suggestion from me. In 2013, the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities concluded that the Fundamental Law was not in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and Article 29. The Committee has concluded that the Fundamental Law is part of Article XXIII of the basic law. Article 29 (6) of the Convention, which allows courts to deprive persons with intellectual disabilities of their right to vote and to vote, so that this is not in accordance with Article 29 of the Convention, and the Committee has asked Hungary to consider the deletion of the basic rule. I think it would be very good if the Hungarian Government really considered it, and I ask you to act in this area as well. Thank you. [[Laszlo Kiss applauds.]] Paragraph 29 of the Convention, which allows courts to deprive persons with intellectual disabilities of their right to vote and to vote, so that this is not in line with Article 29 of the Convention, and the Committee has asked Hungary to consider the deletion of the basic statutory provision. I think it would be very good if the Hungarian Government really considered it, and I ask you to act in this area as well. Thank you. (László Kiss applauds.)
u2015-03-19-121	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. This would be an opportunity for independent Members to speak. There's no such person. A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Gergely Tapolczai. Here you go.
u2015-03-19-122	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much. Thank you for the keynote speech. I'd like to respond to a few thoughts. I am sorry that my colleague, Mr Korózs, had to leave in the meantime, and I would have replied to him that, in the context of bilingual education, I too was sad to note that the beginning of the preparation of the bilingual education had been delayed for a year. At the same time, it is comforting, because it is in such hands that the preparation takes place within the framework of a professional programme to fully implement the principle of "nothing about us" without us. If he had left early, then this might not have been achieved, let us put it this way. With regard to accessibility, he himself acknowledged that they themselves had failed in past government cycles. I say that since 1998, there has been a fifth government, and this disability programme and the implementation of the action plan have been a responsibility and task throughout government cycles. I often experience that the intention is there, the source is there, only the implementation is wrong. This also shows the need for appropriate training of professionals, for example engineering. There, too, the persons involved must be involved in the process. It is a legitimate observation as to why the disability programme was delayed, as far as I know, in autumn 2013 this programme had already begun to be drawn up and the draft had been drawn up. In 2014, the government structure and the classification of the material changed due to national and municipal elections. That's why it was a slip. My time's up, sorry.
u2015-03-19-123	Thank you very much. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first time will be the speech of the Members who have been registered in writing. I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr Sándor Kovács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman, gentlemen! First of all, I think that every plan is worth as much of it as it is, so the opposition representatives' speeches must in any case be a warning to us, because we are submitting a programme, and we want to implement it, but knowing the government's determination and purpose, I think that this will be achieved to a large extent. I look forward to it, too, and I am sure that the action plan that will fill this framework with content will arrive in time. If I were to express the framework in one word, I would say that he sees disability in his complexity, as he can deal with early development of a disabled person from infancy to participation in a higher education institution, family engagement, family life or even acquired disability as an age disability if rehabilitation is considered a disability. I'm still seeing a little bit of a pebble, a kind of passage, or an opportunity to slip into each other, which is a camp for people with reduced working skills, but not for people with disabilities and disabled people, I think it's a little connected, but it should also be chosen at a loss. I am thinking here that we are naming the type of social psychiatric disability or speech disability as a new type of disability, but, speaking of impaired health, rehabilitation or disability - once again - it is not certain that the disability program should negotiate rehabilitation for non-disabled people. I may be a little complicated to express myself, but we're talking about two layers of society, because one layer of society, I say it again, is either acquired or has a congenital disability, and the other is created from some type of health damage. But it is also complex in any way from the point of view not only of the family, but also of the disabled's way of life, but also of the family environment or the working environment. So you put the disabled into a social context that is also about sensitivity, employees, the relationship of the boss, the use of various other social services. I know that Mr Secretary of State's personal determination is to extend the support service, as this is the type of service of social services that guarantees access to services for people with disabilities to a large extent, regardless of age, gender or disability. So in response to my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, I see the personal guarantee in Mr Secretary of State's determination that the support service will be implemented in any way from the point of view of development. [[17.40]] It is very important, and I can join it that the kind of teacher education that the program mentions in terms of education - I use the term again - also reflects, in addition to sensitivity, the kind of professionalism that my colleague from Tapolcza talked about, so that the educational teacher can acquire the kind of knowledge of integrative education that favored a social pedagogical education, but at the same time it is not certain that the special training needs of the disabled will appear. I also think - and I do not want to list the positive results that have been made - that, in addition to the work that the government has done so far, as critical as the opposition is, but that everyone is also trying to provide that service for people with disabilities and for socially disadvantaged people, which is the social responsibility of this government not to leave anyone on the side of the road, we are trying to help everyone as much as we can. I think the program is good, we look forward to the professional upload, and once again: I think that one of the great advantages is that it is complex in terms of personal-family society, but also to help and investigate the complexity of a disabled person's way of life. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-19-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. In fact, with this one speech, the circle of pre-notifications in writing has ended. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, who will be followed by Congressman Sebestyén Vágó.
u2015-03-19-126	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor. I would like to finish the speech I just left behind. I would like to reply to my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén, that I understand his line of thought in terms of integration and segregation, but I see that it is a successive process. In the previous period there was segregation, which was replaced by integration. And now I would suggest that we put it as inclusive education. This includes everything, all aspects of integration, all the professional principles of integration, but at the same time in segregational education an inclusive solution can also be used to facilitate the use of the approach of the host society. So that would be my request to think about inclusive education instead of integration. Mrs Bernadett Szél mentioned the reduction in aid in support of people with disabilities that the aid had been reduced by 29 billion. As far as I know, this has been completed from a HUF 5 billion EU source. And this is connected to a case. In 2009, the then Socialist Government withdrew its support for the 2010 grant and reduced it to about a quarter and a third, arguing that it would be complemented by EU funds. Fortunately, this was partly provided to the organisations at the time from EU funds. I am sure that the government will deliver on this promise and will complement this support. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-19-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. Here's Congressman Sebestyén. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-128	Thank you very much. I just thought of one sentence about who's confident that the government will do it or not. Here I would draw attention to a lack of logic in this draft. The fact that this programme will be brought back to Parliament in five years will also go against the logic of the programme itself. Because the programme itself divides the programme into three action plans and action periods, I would suggest - and I have tabled an amendment in this respect - that then my amendment be accepted, and then all guarantees and all logical requirements can apply in the programme. Therefore, there may be a guarantee that the advocacy organisations or Parliament will be able to monitor this programme more frequently; and it also fits into the logic that if there are three action plans, the implementation of the programme should be monitored three times, subject to those three action plans, even before Parliament. In addition, accessible access was mentioned in the previous speeches, even in the workplace. However, we see the state of access to the means of transport, not only in Hungary, but also in Hungary today. It is enough to look at bus terminals, railway stations, or the road to them, because it is already a form of art to get out of the housing estate itself in its movements, many times in a residential area. Gergely Tapolczai mentioned, in his first speech, the facilitation of access to motor vehicles, and I have already drawn the government's attention to this anomaly on a written question, the anomaly of the purchased vehicle and other related matters. As long as I can get access to a motor vehicle - under what conditions, I will not have time for it now - which, in many cases, is even unsuitable for a wheelchair user to use it, we should develop it rather than expand access. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-19-129	Thank you very much. The two-minute speeches are closed by Mrs Bernadett Szél. Then there is another two minutes after the next speech. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-19-130	Thank you. One more thought came to me here, listening to the conversation or debate, and the fact that in connection with accessibility, there is a failure of the government, a promise. The last statutory deadline expired on 31 December 2010. When we talked about this issue in 2013, what happened was that you removed the deadlines from the law and promised the Parliament that it would be included in this programme. This is not included in this programme, so I think that if they could keep their earlier promise, it would be important, because this was said in 2013: precisely in order to monitor and schedule development in this area, this will be included in this programme. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State to put this into the program in some way, which was promised by your predecessor. Thank you. [[Laszlo Kiss applauds.]]
u2015-03-19-131	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László György Lukács will be followed by a regular speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-03-19-132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I have examined the programme from the point of view of health and health, and I have looked at how our disabled fellow citizens will be able to find luck or how they will find something good in the forward-looking goals contained in the programme. Obviously, as a principle of operation of the proposal, this has already been made known, the programme basically defined that it invites the Government to take the necessary steps on the basis of the proposal. These relate to legislation, budgetary planning, but also to the area of administrative bodies or central bodies' budgets. In view of this, I immediately thought about whether, if we look at it from a budgetary or a requested legislative point of view, there would be enough will in the government, for example, to implement it. Or is it able to provide enough funds, budgetary resources, or concentrate on, for example, the health sector to achieve these objectives set out in the programme? Or will you be able to give priority to the problems raised in the area of legislation? These will have to be clarified first. In addition, as stated at the beginning of the programme, it is not small, as nearly 490 thousand people are placed only by those who we know are disabled, but also by looking at international relations and trends, nearly one million people are disabled. So it affects a great deal of society, and it is a large spread and a crowd in which our fellow citizens are involved. I would specifically focus on point 2 of the proposal, in which the programme identified the areas of focus for people with disabilities to be addressed in the future in health care. So primarily the need for early detection, diagnostics, which is very right. Improving the availability of basic and specialised services and supporting tools, to put it simply: the subject of aids. With regard to the first issue, namely prevention itself, the proposal sets out the early diagnostic and screening priority, which reflects the public health approach very rightly, but unfortunately does not take into account the challenges that are expected or hindering them. One of these challenges is, as I said at the beginning, the burden of screening and diagnostic costs. And in addition to the current funding of those, if we consider this one as a base year and look at the current government will, and we predict that there will be no progress in the future, we can certainly see that insufficient costs will characterize these screenings. [[17.50]] It can be brought up as a positive - and this is not even here on my so-called speaker leader, but on account of my own concern - that we may have brought up at the very end of the last session the need for objective auditory screening, which was usually absent in hospitals, often only with the possibility of hearing screening in newborns or in the child, that they applauded him profanly and heard him or not, so there was no other possibility of hearing screening that could have been determined specifically and very accurately by hearing loss or even hearing loss, and that the government had otherwise taken action at the beginning of the year. I'm not saying that on the initiative of Jobbik, but it's haunted by the fact that we brought this problem into the walls of the House. Here again, I would like to emphasise that, of course, Jobbik will continue to bring about health issues that we believe are right here. One of these was the initiation of such a screening, such a diagnostic. This has now coincident, by the way, with the government's intention. Therefore, with regard to filtering, it can be said that the resources currently devoted to it are insufficient and, indeed, very difficult to reach and that they are not properly applied according to knowledge. There is also a problem with this in the defence network, and it is a very big problem that this profession, this circle, which belongs to diagnostics and screening, also weighs on the wage increase needed at the previous agenda points, so the human resource side is a very serious obstacle to diagnostics and screening. That's one of the problems. The other, which is recent, is the organizational problem in this area. Not long ago, the government started restructuring health institutions, and it was implemented as of 1 March. In the transformation of health background institutions, there was a relevant class - the molecular genetic and diagnostic class - involved in the diagnosis of rare diseases, genetic screening of rare diseases, very much of diseases that result in disabilities in unborn children and sick children. The existence of this department has been compromised by the medical restructuring, and only the very loud action of civilians and the hard and hard standing of Karakan have poured clear water into this cup, and although it was not possible to see the government's intention to reform it, it seems that the government has either been somewhat reliant on it, or it has realized that this must be properly communicated to the public, so it has now known for certain that it was placed in the framework of the National Public Health Institute. However, the operation of this extremely important class, which is extremely important for diagnostics and screening, was in great danger, including its international relationship, the knowledge base and database, so all that helped with the proper screening, and one of the most supportive services of disability in this area could have been lost. So I warn the government here that these reorganisations are always such a threat, which, by the way, have not been put as a threat point in the programme - obviously it is not the job of the programme to carry out the dangers through such an analysis - but I did consider this to be worth it, in any case, to show that there is such a threat to health restructuring, and it may also be such a danger to the case of the disabled. As for the second subject, this concerns basic outpatient care. The proposal rightly assesses the fact that accessibility, i.e. access to health services for people with disabilities - how it approaches the institution itself at all, whether it receives adequate information there - is a serious challenge, and makes a number of proposals that can also be said to be acceptable, even supportive and very necessary at the level of the programme, but it is unlikely that with this current source of health, as they will appear as expenditure within the institutional system of health organisations, they will also press this expenditure side of the budget. In the absence of a source, these activities - facilitating an information approach, the interpretation of communication assistance, sign interpreter, or medical documents, and the ability to make decisions - are afraid that otherwise they will not happen, and they could be very important, since we all know that this is a rather neurological point. I will also tell you the legal aspect, because in legal institutions - courts and other legal services - the same obstacles are faced by disabled people. The same problem is encountered in health institutions. There is very difficult information to understand, in many cases this information is very difficult to understand and very difficult to understand for our healthy fellows, especially if it is not properly explained to an autist, it is explained in short sentences that are not relevant and purposefully explaining his condition, on the one hand it is very difficult for him to get involved in the treatment or health care service, and, on the other hand, it is not good for the health institutions, I think. So there are very serious challenges in this area, and there should be a very serious bridge in this, which is cost-intensive as construction, and I am also afraid that the government will not necessarily coincide with the intentions in the field of spending that have been formulated in this programme. The proposal correctly addresses the problem of the confusion of sick roads, which are very, very difficult for the public administrations themselves, but in many cases even for the ambulance service, so how difficult it is for civilians to get to know it. So in this, too, if nothing else, this program can serve as a catalyst for what the health government needs to change. The proposal - perhaps a problem - does not assess the problem point, so it does not offer a plan on how and how we will solve the physical availability of institutions. I am thinking not only about whether an institution is accessible, but also about the current restructuring and restructuring of supply points, hospital benefits from people with disabilities who, for example, find it much more difficult to get from the countryside to a county hospital where they can take care of or use these services. Therefore, care must be taken to ensure that infrastructure conversion is taken into account in healthcare benefits, and, on the other hand, attention should also be paid to the human resources mix, since the medical examination and training for rehabilitation has improved quite well, but perhaps there has been a slight interruption in the number of people entering vocational training in the past period, and how the number of rehabilitation classes is developing. Many, by the way, smaller hospitals have moved in the direction of providing services for disabled people and for musculoskeletal rehabilitation. This may be a positive one, but the accessibility of these hospitals is also rather difficult. The third area is the technological challenge of aids. At this point, the proposal also correctly assesses that maintaining modernity in technological development is of primary importance, but does not assess the existing reverse situation that dominates this market. I think it is well known that, when prescribing, replacing and justifying the instruments, there is a question that pushes the system from the inside: in many cases, there is a suspicion of misuse of State aid. And it is not the people with disabilities who take this unwarranted, but a lot of people abuse the possibility of using certain medical devices and aids to the detriment of the disabled themselves. Therefore, in order to prevent the inefficient, wasteful spending of these resources, a very strict review is absolutely necessary, and we can say that this review of the regulations is inevitable. Therefore, Article 5/2004 applies. In any case, there will be a need for an overview of this regulation and very strict rules on how new therapeutic methods and tools can be introduced to people with disabilities and that there should be no abuse - otherwise well-known and unfortunately so - from a medical level. Because in many cases doctors who prescribe a prescription themselves have a habit of taking advantage of it, and this is, unfortunately, a well-known phenomenon for disabled and non-disabled people in professional studies. So if nothing else, here too, the program can serve as a catalyst. What may be a little bit more important is that I would like to talk a little more about the law here for the rest of the time, which is no longer a medical area. As a practicing lawyer, I have also often experienced the challenges faced by people with disabilities in the administration of justice - be it the top of the justice system, in court proceedings, but, where appropriate, in the procedural part of the justice system, in police proceedings or in any administrative procedure. [[18.00]] One of the biggest challenges here is still the institutional structure that carries with it that these judicial institutions are almost inaccessible. In recent times, many courts have, of course, tried to make improvements in order to be able to approach those with limited mobility, but for example very few have taken the time to benefit other people with disabilities, and often the procedure itself has not given them the opportunity to favour them. While criminal proceedings and civil proceedings all contain rules on how people with disabilities can be helped, in practice, as soon as one enters a courtroom, it disappears, it cannot be achieved. In a very large part, the judiciary is responsible for this, and in very large part it is responsible for the different rules of procedure, such as deadlines or the overload of courts. But these are all obstacles, especially information and communication barriers, which make court proceedings almost unmanageable for a disabled person, in many cases even though they often act with their legal representatives. So, basically, a physical approach has hindered them, and on the other hand, there is also an information barrier. I mean, in my own practice, there was one thing that we couldn't - and I'm sorry to say his name - get him to the district court in Karcag, because the court was only upstairs, and there was no other room open to a person with a limited mobility, so the court took a special time to do so, and otherwise, adjourned to the fact that it was not good for the purposes of litigation, had to look for a public institution in the city where the trial could be held. However, it is safe to say that the police are dealing with the same problem locally, and for a long time the municipality has also struggled with the same problem, not to mention that there was a disabled person whose hearing loss was very serious, but he did not speak in sign language, and he was virtually unspeakable to what happened in the courtroom; he could not communicate with the judge or the court parties. For him, justice was more of a alienation genre than a sense of ownership. So, overall, I wanted to draw the attention of the Secretary of State or the House to these challenges or to these points. I trust that these may be incorporated, or that when this comes back to this House at any time, we can talk about this in a more positive context. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-19-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Kiss of the MSZP Group will take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, allow me to start by saying that I am very pleased that many of the pro-government Members are actively involved in this debate, because this is a bit out of the ordinary, and I am used to it myself. I think they have enriched this debate with some ideas that are certainly right to be heard here. I do not necessarily agree with them, but I think that a debate makes sense if there is also point A and B in this, and I think it is also right that everyone who may be monitoring this debate can see as much of the points as possible how people see things. At the same time, I am sure that I am very happy that this is the case now, and that is how it can be in this debate. Let me start by saying that when we have this planned agenda before us, As an elected representative of the district, I initiated a discussion with civil society organisations and experts working in the district to discuss how they appreciate this report, and how the case of the disabled in general is appreciated. I would like to share with you the essence of this conversation by saying, of course, my own opinion. I am responsible for any errors, but good perceptions reflect the excellent work and sacrifice of colleagues, civil society organisations. Firstly, if a criticism is allowed, it has been said that it is very right in the report to mention that part of the amendment to the Law on the Rights and Equal Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities has been made. However, a number of people objected to the fact that the promised directions for amendments had not been fully implemented. Despite the fact that it did not happen, it is said that at the end of 2012 the Ministry held extensive consultations, in a manner which is not generally typical of the government. Obviously, there was also an explanation as to why there was no broader legislation, since the electoral turmoil of 2014 could have taken this away, but several civil society organisations indicated that it would be desirable to include additional guarantees in the law on equal access. What many of my fellow Members have already said here, and I would not go further, it would be good if the deadlines that have been removed from the legislation or, if not the deadlines, other deadlines were returned. It is very important to talk about what is included in the report that the support service plays a key role in the care of people with disabilities, ensuring their independent lives and their right to self-determination. I have to say that in 2015, the resources available for the service were significantly reduced. If you look at some statistics, you can see that while 338 support organisations provided services in 2011, in 2012 276, in 2013 275, in 2014 269. The financing was carried out by defining the task units. While it was possible to finance slightly more than 1.4 million task units in 2012, this fell to slightly more than 1.2 million by 2014, and this situation remains unchanged this year. Of course, the reduction in funding for activities has also led to a drastic reduction in the number of recipients and the human resources they receive. According to some calculations, there was generally a 40% withdrawal from organisations performing the highest task unit. It can be said that this has certainly had a negative impact. As a general criticism, civil society organisations have indicated that the car park is completely outdated, that there is no possibility of purchasing, modernising, and there have been a number of other problems, which my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén, has already analysed, which I would not comment on here. With regard to the Swallow Service, which is positively assessed in the report, it is important to state that this is indeed a positive thing. The current intellectually disabled, autistic and multi-disabled people are being treated. It can, of course, only be helpful to them, and only organisations providing funding to these persons can use it on this basis, but they thank, of course, for receiving such support. The separation of the concept of a means of life from the concept of a medical aid is indeed necessary in the opinion of the organisations, but it should also be pointed out that, in many cases, the means of life are partly or completely unresolved. The reduction of VAT may facilitate the acquisition of assets, but this does not necessarily solve them. The development of the support system, the provision of tax incentives in itself and the establishment of the budgetary system would certainly not be sufficient. Organisations believe that solving the current situation would also require the inclusion of additional resources, and they want progress to be made on this issue. There has been a lot of talk about assessing accessibility, about where this thing is going. Allow me to linger a little longer than that, all the more so, because I still remember the shock I had when I was a freshman in college when, at the request of a visually impaired classmate who had asked one of my professors who had passed away to record the lecture so that he could learn from it again, the professor replied with a noble simplicity that, of course, he did not. Several of us were upset, but the professor refused to change his determination to do so. At the same time as Annex III. I started to represent a local government in the district, and I was struck by a positive shock: the fact that there are also open communities, those that believe that they want to provide all members of the community, if possible, with uniform access to the assets of the community or to the institutions. In this sense, I must say that in one case I had a very negative experience and in the other case I have had a very positive experience. Nevertheless, you can see that those who are in many areas of life know that there is still room for accessibility. If you look at this website that you can see - the report subpoenas the website - there is more to the study. One is that it's not good. Of course, everyone has a problem with that, but when I read this report myself, I was genuinely shocked that we were here. [[18.10]] I was also genuinely shocked because practically for a very long time, all governments, regardless of party standing, had an important intention of accessibility both in public institutions and in Hungary in general. Nevertheless, it is alarming to me that we are still not successful in this, and it is absolutely important to do so. Moreover, as the report shows, the situation in public education and health institutions is even worse than the average, so in those institutions where the most and urgent need is to, say, lead in accessibility, we can see that the situation is even worse. I myself have taught in many schools in my life, I have been different in many schools, and I also find that it has not been possible for these institutions to be accessible, nor has it been possible for our disabled fellow citizens to make frequent use of these institutions. I think it is absolutely important to change that, and it is important to change that. I do not think that parties should throw mud at each other on this issue anyway. I think it would be right to face this problem and to make a very conscious improvement in accessibility, even if you are watching the press, you can see both good and bad examples. In recent days, the image of an elevator built from an EU tender to bridge a height of 40 centimeters was flashed, but a few hours ago I looked at a website where the accessibility of a public institution was achieved by stepping up the too steep ramp. Now we can clearly see that we are talking about two extremes here. The good thing is, if none of them existed, the good thing would be if the institutions were accessible and available. But there is little mention of our hearing-damaged fellow nations' accessibility problems. Let's just say I'm kind of curious about how many public institutions our fellow citizens can handle. Somehow, that question is embezzled. I don't think we can ignore this question. If some of the current questions are already allowed, because they concern me as a representative: during Metro 4's investment, accessibility solutions were already used for the investment. I think that this is certainly a welcome thing, and I am also pleased about that. as district, that such solutions were applied in the same way in connection with the renovation of tram 1. I think that this is something that I must support, and I definitely think it is a step forward. Don't tell me I'm just being critical, and I welcome that, and I'm definitely glad that this can be done. At the same time, it may be a bit professional and less often said, but civil society organisations also criticize in many cases by, for example, the lack of accessibility of public toilets in connection with these investments. In general, it can be said that it is the right thing to do, to pay attention to this accessibility in connection with investment in transport. They may allow me some thought about further training, because it is also my profession. I must say that I very much welcome the fact that these further training opportunities, which are described in the report, will be announced in as many as possible, but, at the same time, as I understand, the further training involved in the report will not start. The issue of teacher further education is also interesting and a little sensitive because, as is known, teachers need to have a sufficient number of hours in training every seven years, but at the same time it is important to note in the system of further training that no one provides resources for teachers. The state provides resources for all free training, but my teachers usually try to hunt these trainings, since as low-income, small-money people, it doesn't matter what kind of training they take. It could be a solution to launch such further trainings with the support of the state in this area, of course free of charge, because, in practice, colleagues who do not have financial resources can also use it. Programmes have been emerging since the 1990s in order to increase employment in the open labour market. Such programmes are currently under way, and I think that this should be assessed positively, both through EU support and through government support, but it is important to note that if my information is correct, these programmes will last until March 2015 and October 2015. It is obvious that they can go further, which requires additional funding or the involvement of new EU funds. I hope that these resources will be available, and these programmes will be able to go, because, as you can say, initiatives and programmes that go through cycles, which are also very effective in this government, would be a pity to let them go. If we are talking about what is not in this report, I would be able to come up with about a number of these creative solutions for you; now, because of the progress of time, I will not burden you with this to detail for hours what is not in this programme. At the same time, it is important to note the emphasis on progress in ensuring equal access. It is very important that further progress is needed in this regard, and that the government requires the type of technical expertise and, if you will, the necessary expertise in investment in equal opportunities, both in public and in infrastructure. These are the two examples that I have told you, and I do not think that there was a bad intention in any case with the investor, but there was also a lack of expertise, which, let's say, can be said in any case. And to link this to the agenda before me, allow me only one very short detail from the Ombudsman's report. This is a case in 2013, where a severely disabled person requested support, and it took several months to receive this support, because the necessary technical examinations or expert opinion were issued within 5 months. Now, what is absolutely unacceptable is that our fellow citizens, who are very important to these subsidies, must wait so long for them to get this. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-19-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech from the Fidesz Group will be followed by Mr Attila Petneházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-136	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Of course, because of the progress of time, I will not take advantage of my entire time, but we could also look at it from another perspective, as László Kiss said, in many ways we have been around this topic today. True, he also said for the last time here that he could list for hours how many shortcomings this material has. I think you'd be in a tough spot if you had to do that. It is a very uniform material, and it is indeed a subject that is unfinished, but also a substance that covers this sensitive subject sufficiently. I'd like to approach the whole thing from here. It has been discussed many times today, and in the previous item on the agenda, I have also spoken on this issue, the responsibility of politicians. The harshness of the public speech can also be described as a responsibility of politicians, which is leading the public speech in the wrong direction. But there is one very important - I would like to join here - when the politician takes the public speech in the right direction, and I think that in sensitizing we politicians can be leaders, because I think that everyone who returns home in their own territory can give a number of personal examples of how I do this at home in different institutions and schools; who can make me an ambassador to sensitization. Indeed, both society and the individual, because I believe that the individual has a great responsibility - and here we can just agree again between ourselves, which is why I am happy to add that everyone is about to vote on this item in brackets - so everyone can make this kind of public sentiment, this kind of approach to people with disabilities, this strange thing that we all are slutty and - sorry for the expression - we are not disabled, yes, we can do a lot about this. [[18.20]] My fellow Member, Gergely Tapolcza, said that he has seen a lot of progress over the last many years. I also think that there is a lack of accessibility, but we have made a lot of progress in recent years. When you walk around the world with your eyes open, you can see that this is going this way. I am sorry to say this to all of us - the importance of communication, our responsibility to the individual, I draw your attention to it. I myself, as a parent, see how important it is to plant this in my own child when I talk about it, how I approach this thing. This is something that everyone in their own environment must approach with responsibility. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-19-137	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Kiss is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-03-19-138	Thank you for the floor. I could pick up where my fellow Member Petnehazy left off. I do not want to embarrass my fellow Member by saying that he is right. But continuing to think: I think that it would be a good direction for the current government, regardless of party standing, to make an extremely strong effort to ensure that infrastructure developments are carried out in accordance with the spirit of the report. I think it is only important to stress this because it may be a small thing, but we have been trying to arrange for about half a year with the employees of the Aquincum Museum for the information that is absolutely necessary for the availability of the environment at the Aquincum Museum on the railway station in Esztergom-Budapest. This does not seem to be much, since we are only talking about a few thousand forints tables, so there is nothing about a billion-dollar investment, but at the moment, let's say, we are not winning. I hope that this situation will change. But in the same way, I would like to see any investment in infrastructure, obviously in Annex III. Circumferentials would also be implemented in such a way that these places are accessible to all. I also think it is very important, and my fellow Member Petneházy is very right about this, that public speaking and politicians have a crazy responsibility in these matters. I think we have a responsibility in how we interpret these things. I have tried to bring my own argument system closer to you, and I hope you will find understanding, despite the fact that I do not necessarily share your position in everything. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-19-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Tapolczai also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-140	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor. Firstly, for the sake of the minutes, I would like to make a clarification, as the sign language interpreter indicated that he was uncertain about the translation of my previous comment. I would now like to clarify, for the record, that the aid has not decreased by 29 billion, but has fallen to 29 billion. Finally, on the part of the Fidesz-KDNP and on my part, I thank my fellow Members for their speeches, for the correct atmosphere of the debate. I hope that this will continue in the future in any debate on disability. I wish that this should always be a matter beyond party political battles. Thank you for the support of the opposition parties, who have said that they will vote for you. Thank you all for your participation.
u2015-03-19-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Charles Czibere:]] Yeah. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2015-03-19-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Like Mr President, I would also like to thank everyone who participated in the debate, because, as I explained in my expo, the commitment from each of the comments is not to say that the passion that is based on our fact that we have a common cause in Hungary today is to help, support and social inclusion of people with disabilities. I would especially like to thank you for that. Mr Tapolczai also mentioned that it is a very important social and political achievement and result that, regardless of the political side, there is such a national consensus to help people with disabilities. Of course, on the issue of specific policies, on the issue of partial policies, on specific areas and measures, it seems that there are still discussions, but there is consensus in fundamental objectives, fundamental values and fundamental principles. I consider this to be a very important achievement. The other thing I would like to advance is that we have received so many suggestions in the last hour or two, which does not allow me to respond separately to each and every point, but of course we will collect in detail the questions raised, and I will reply in writing to all Members. So I'm sorry if there were any suggestions that I'm not going to respond to in any way right now. The most important nodes were as follows. One is the genre itself, the long-term concept, the strategy. A number of people have suggested that there are significant changes compared to the previous one. We should be aware that in 2012, the legislative environment for long-term strategies fundamentally changed, and the change of legislation basically requires the requirements, the way in which long-term concepts are prepared, the deadline for what such a concept should contain. The disability programme itself goes back to this legislation and therefore does not include, for example, supplies that have been asked by several people. However, the action plan contains, for example, financial resources and allocates the financial framework. Another question concerned the relationship with the action plan. After the establishment of the government very quickly, even at the end of the summer, the primary question was to prepare the programme itself, submit it after a complete professional consensus, and start preparing the action plan as we go. I myself, for example, have come here from a discussion on how to prepare the action plan as quickly as possible. We do not want to live with the three months that the program contains as an opportunity. Very quickly, in the coming weeks, we would like to draw up a plan of action and put it into consultation. Our aim is to ensure that professionals, people with disabilities and their families are fully informed as soon as possible about the specific measures the government will take to break down the principles and objectives of the programme in 2015,, 16, 17 and 18 - that is to say, in those four years, this will be covered by the action plan. The next question concerns the need for a broad consensus on the programme. At the moment, as we started in the summer in August, there has been continuous consultation with both civil society organisations and social services providers, the leaders of major disability organisations. The National Disability Council has met twice in the last six months, which also supported this programme unanimously. [[18.30]] So I would like to show that the government is committed to continuing a continuous, live and intensive dialogue with disability organisations, people with disabilities and service providers who are trying to help them. It is an important achievement, as we have pointed out, that Pál Szekeres is the Minister's Commissioner who oversees the area in order to strengthen the inter-sectoral, inter-ministerial coordination of this whole area, disability. We would like to support this through several types of instruments. Several people have referred to accessibility, several have referred to measures that affect several sectors. We would like this inter-sectoral cooperation to be strengthened already in the preparation of the action plan, with the help of the Commissioner for Ministers, by amending the regulation and strengthening the coordination forums, and indeed, the fundamental values and emphasis of disability policy in the co-sectors could be much stronger than previously. Here is the question of social services. We were encouraged to continue the substitution with greater intensity; let me say that I put it this way in the expoze: deinstitutionalization. In the first phase of deinstitutionalisation, the new set-up of eroded institutions starts in these weeks and months, and 660 people with disabilities with 7 billion HUF have the opportunity to improve their quality of life to a significant extent and to experience a truly more independent, autonomous lifestyle instead of a former uniform, residential institution. The government has decided to intensify and accelerate the process of deinstitutionalisation as we were encouraged. To this end, for the next six years, we are calculating not 660, but 3600-4000 seats that are basically affected by people with disabilities who are provided with boarding facilities. However, we would like to allocate a significant amount of EUR 36.2 billion, essentially from EU funds. So the deinstitutionalisation strategy decided in 2011 is taken seriously. We would like to evaluate the experience of the first round, which ends now, but the experience that we have so far also suggests that it is possible and important to speed up this process. We hope that it will not take 30 years, as it stands in the strategy, to implement the deinstitutionalisation process. The next was the issue of subsidised housing. We believe that assisted housing is one of the greatest achievements of social policy over the past four years. The basic regulatory logic of the Social Act 93 is a completely uncompromising, revolutionary new form of service, which, you can safely say, can revolutionize the world of residential services. Quite simply because it starts with a new approach. For this reason, we consider it important to help it spread by all means. Over the last 12 months, the number of people living in assisted housing has been only a few hundred, so we think that we need to rethink where the conditions are, by mitigating them and encouraging them, to create more hundreds of seats in the coming months and years. The development of assisted housing is therefore an important government priority. The next element of disability social assistance is the support service. It was an important measure already in the autumn that we sought to focus on this area the specific resources that were accumulated or formed during the year from such remains and other areas. So we tried to help during the year, and that's how it's gonna be this year. The plan has been completed and we hope that we will perhaps have additional government funding to strengthen the system of support services on all three issues that have been raised here by several Members and women. One is increasing funding, the other is removing white spots, because there are counties where there is a support service. I would like to report back here because a number of people have raised a decrease in the number of support services over the past four years. Let us not forget that this is partly due to the loss of bushes. Some maintainers maintained three to four services in a county-righted city, and these were merged in 2011-12-13. But it is also important that an ageing fleet can be renewed, and we plan to support it. The next thing you know, she's got a disability-per-day question. Here I think that Mrs Bernadett Szél mentioned an accidental wrong service, because it is precisely the area where capacity for people with disabilities has increased significantly by almost a third, and there are exactly 8188 authorised seats in Hungary today that allow day care for people with disabilities during the day. It remains a priority in the next period to improve the number of people with disabilities as well as in development and quality. Let us not forget that in 2012-13, the most significant increase in the operational funding of people with disabilities has been increased. When we talk about how the norms and budget funding have evolved, the head quota for this service has increased to the greatest extent in nominal and real terms over the past period, just to reflect the government's commitment to helping people with disabilities. Finally, another important point in the area of services is the Swallow programme. That was mentioned by several people. We consider the Swallow programme to be important and innovative, so in the next six years we would like to support the expansion of this programme in a budget of HUF 1 billion. The professional evaluation of this has been carried out, and what we really see is that many times in the care and care of disabled children, families who remain on their own can offer an important opportunity to free themselves for a few hours. So we'd like to support you. So much for the service world. The next major hub was the issue of employment. The employment of the disabled, as many have referred to here, is indeed a success story over the past four years. The most important number, I think, is, and here more people have remembered and quoted employment indicators, is that in 2010 there were around 43 thousand people with disabilities in some form of employment. This number is now around 80,000. This means that in the last four years, the number of people with disabilities, health impairments or disabilities who have participated in employment has doubled. I think it's a significant achievement, and it can't be taken away. It is also true that there are significant reserves. If we look at what, say, tens of billions of revenue from rehabilitation contributions is still in the budget, then we can see that the forms of employment could still be significantly expanded here. [[18.40]] The aim is to further improve employment and employment opportunities in the ongoing dialogue with employers. In this, of course, we sat down with employers' representatives in September, and from January onwards we prepared and put in place a package that significantly reduces the chances and opportunities of employment for people with disabilities and disabilities. There were various comments and suggestions from these employers, which we tried to take into account - for example, statistical numbers, labour law numbers, now let me not go into the details - and as they came into force, the chances of these companies, companies and employers with disabilities improved significantly from January onwards. We would like to move forward in this dialogue, and we are already preparing to put in place a next package from next January, which will further improve these opportunities. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind referred, for example, to the introduction of differentiated funding. This is one of the proposals that we would like to make and which is on the government's table in terms of differentiation. Let me tell you that in October we wrote out applications for employers. While at the end of last year 29,600 people with disabilities were able to be supported in this tendering framework, in the new system they managed to conclude grant contracts for 30,300 people with disabilities from January onwards. As many have asked, yes, the government is committed to re-establishing this system from domestic sources. Of course, we are looking at how we can add additional support from EU funds to this. However, it is also very important that what has been said is that there is no resources to improve employment, such as job creation. We have launched hundreds of millions of applications in the autumn for employers to have the opportunity to employ people with disabilities, for example, by transforming the workplace, so we are also paying particular attention to this. In fact, in December we launched a bid of 2.7 billion dollars, a one-off investment proposal to give companies with changed jobs a government encouragement that it is worth investing in the future, because a rather significant source of tender is available for the renewal of the amortised asset park, a certain HUF 2.7 billion. I think it's strong evidence in itself. It was mentioned how safe this application system is for employers in the long term. I think that with these signals and these messages, the government has communicated its commitment to view the fundamental goal for people with disabilities, not for people with disabilities, but to allow all people with disabilities to show that they are able to do value-making work and show how they can contribute to social values and express themselves through value-making work. We want to continue to represent this social policy goal and to support it with all possible means. The next question was accessibility. The data is pretty clear. Thus, for both administrative, health and educational institutions, a complete, comprehensive image and survey has been carried out across all counties, showing that accessibility is on average somewhere between 55 and 60 percent. We think accessibility goes without saying. It is a great shame in Hungary today, if, say, a newly designed building is made without taking into account the principle of accessibility. We will seize all the instruments, which is why we want to strengthen cross-sectoral cooperation and inter-ministerial cooperation so that this does not happen. At the same time, in addition to physical accessibility, let me give you three examples that are in the same circle, and we see great progress here. One of them is thinking. Several Members and women have said that one of the most important things is that, in addition to support schemes, we fundamentally shape the attitudes and attitudes of employers, but also citizens in general, and it is self-evident for everyone that they are sensitive to the difficulties of disabled people living in their environment, family, workplace, working with them, living with them in a narrower local society. This is an extremely important thing. I think we have made a lot of progress in this, in training, in training, in sensitizing higher education students, as was the case. I'll give you two other areas. One is the world of hearing-damaged people. Congressman Tapolczai mentioned the contact service. The current operation of the contact service has increased several times the number of users of the current service and the number of cases where a public service could be used by a deaf person. It has only increased three to four times this one technical service, so that the sign language interpreter does not have to be on the spot and present when using the public service. I think that this type of information technology and communication technology development can serve as a basis for, for example, accessibility, and it is important to propose further such improvements by interpreting and evaluating the experience of this. I'd like to give you a third example, this is the VERCS, the basic rehabilitation of the visually impaired. This is about the fact that in recent years, the number of people we can provide basic rehabilitation services has increased several times in the primary rehabilitation of visually impaired people. In Hungary today, this basic rehabilitation is taking place in 12 places, which is about preparing people to become disabled and injured in adulthood to cope with obstacles. So we think that there are a number of good programmes in which we can move forward in their experience. Of course, physical accessibility remains important to us. Five billion forints is planned for the next period for this purpose. But, of course, since this should be used in a targeted way, there is currently a detailed planning of exactly what form and for what purposes it should be planned. I wanted to highlight these four or five key elements, apologizing once again if I did not mention one topic separately. Returning to my initial sentence, I would like to thank everyone once again for their comments, but most of all for their support, their agreement and their vote and support for this proposal. I think that the consensus behind this is what is the most important guarantee in Hungary today for people with disabilities. It is an important message for them, and from this debate, I hope you will come to them that their cause is a common cause, a common cause of the nation, and this Parliament, this Parliament, in this way, expresses and views it as a common cause of the nation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-19-143	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully inform my fellow Members and remind you that it was possible today to submit amendments in accordance with the agreed agenda and the provisions of the House Rules. [[18.50]] So I hope that everyone who wanted to submit an amendment made use of this opportunity. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Member of the Jobbik Group, Mr Café Tatabánya (Alzheimer Café Tatabánya) has applied for a speech after today's agenda. I'll wait for him to put the microphone on. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-03-19-144	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Parliament of a great initiative, and this is the group or event called Alzheimer Café Tatabánya. He was launched by a young man who lived in England, but he had to come home because his mother had this problem, and he needed daily supervision and care. He looked, of course, at what he might be able to help his mother, and then he found this initiative, which has been going on for quite some time in Western European countries.There are many international examples, Dutch, German and French examples of such Alzheimer's cafe being operated, he found these examples and found a Hungarian example, because this model was first introduced in Hungary in Győr. He has researched, organized, and managed to create it, and is now a second place in Hungary in Tatabánya, as well as a club. This initiative is great in many ways. First of all, a great psychiatrist, László Mód, took this initiative under his wing and regularly lectured on these occasions and on these events. On the one hand, it is a great initiative, because stakeholders and their relatives, even those working in the city's assisted profession, working in the elderly's home or in the care of the family, are able to gather information at this event, collect very professional and useful information: how to develop their everyday lives, how to take care of prevention, even prevention of deterioration, and how special conditions can be met either by them or by their relatives. The other great thing is that once a month this event, this event, happens once a month, these people get together once a month, and they not only get information from the lecture and the answers they ask, but they also have an exchange of views with each other, they also talk to each other, discuss their everyday problems, discuss their possible ideas that the other person concerned or even the relative can apply. And there is also a very good procession and benefit of this event, and this is that the venue is given by the commercial secondary school in Tatabánya, and during the event, the service pupils who are studying there will help and serve the interested, participants, according to the needs, and will actually perform part of their community work. So even though they practice their profession, how they should perform the service work at such a club venue, such as a club event, so that, as volunteers, they can also meet the stakeholders in community work, on the one hand, fulfil the conditions prescribed by the law, and on the other hand, they can meet these people and build their positive benefits into their own spirituality, lifestyle, and view of life. And otherwise, there are not only young people serving in this way, so there are those who are involved in the service, but there is also a student who has performed with some kind of production at the club, we have seen a folk dance performance, there has been a musical performance. So, in fact, those who showed up could participate in a complex event. There are a lot of positive benefits, even when it comes to self-education. The other part, because I care about this club, this cafe, is that the self-organizing nature, the nature of the bottom-up initiative, is preserved. This is also felt by the atmosphere of the event itself. And, of course, it is clear to me that these can provide extra information and additional practicalities and ideas for those in this life situation, either in a level of knowledge or in the capacity to endure everyday life. Therefore, I would like to propose from here to the inhabitants of every major city, who, God forbid, may even be involved, to follow up on this matter, and indeed it is a feasible plan and project, to implement it in their own living environment, together with those affected with a similar problem. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the ranks of Fidesz and MSZP.]]
u2015-03-19-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. There's been a technical glitch. I would like to give Mr László Kiss the opportunity to speak. Thank you very much. After the agenda, MEP László Kiss from the MSZP Group asked for a speech with the title "Obudan" on Ancient sarcophagus. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-19-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Looks like the damage is over now, thanks for your help. In fact, I would like to deal with the issue that fits my profession and my constituency here after the agenda, as part of Annex III. in the district, which can also be described as one of the citadels of culture in Budapest, I think that in many cases wonderful cultural values will be revealed. Even now, in January 2015, the situation was similar, two large stone sarcophagus were found in Obuda during the renovation of the Budapest-Esztergom railway line. This artifact was found at the railway station in Óbuda during the excavation of a drainage ditch. The Roman funerals were discovered by archaeologists of the Aquincum Museum in two days. It's a very short deadline, it took a lot of work for archaeologist colleagues to do this exploration professionally. The top of the sarcophagus could be opened with a handle, which weighed a ton. Unfortunately, these sarcophagus have been robbed in ancient times, so there wasn't much physical memory here but bone remains. If we look at these sarcophagus, we can see that its cover has been turned into a roof with tiles, on one side they have made a fancy ear frame for the tombstone of the deceased, but unfortunately this field is left empty, so we cannot know who is resting in this sarcophagus. However, it seems certain that the tombs belonged to a previously known Roman cemetery, which stood on both sides of the main road from Aquincum's bourgeois town to the west. I don't want to bore anyone with historical lectures, but it's fitting to note - especially to me - that it's basically the III. This type of burial has been typical since the first century. This is due to the fact that II-III. From the turn of the century, the traditional cremation funeral will be reduced, and this sarcophagus burial will take precedence. And if we look at it, we can see more and more such sarcophagus from around the world in Roman areas, which were decorative, beautifully carved, and, unfortunately, in this case, it was not possible to conclude who was resting in them. Sadly, these tombs were robbed very early in the troubled period, during the era of migration, so it is virtually minor to find significant material memories in them. But it was also common that after these sarcophagus were robbed, the Romans used them again for burial, or they hid them underground so that this ugliness would not happen again. This artifact is not without precedent. In the district, I remind you that in 2011, a similar sarcophagus was discovered by the museum's experts, a little further away from the Warehouse Street construction site. Speaking of this artifact, allow me to remember the museum itself in a few sentences, since it has been said since 1778 that Art. Roman monuments are found in the district, but the museum itself was founded in 1894. [[19.00]] So since then, as one of the citadels of Hungarian antiquity, he has not only done very serious research, but with his high-quality exhibitions he is a real tourist attraction. I always tell you when I can make the III. district is the district where there are almost uniquely two amphitheaters: an amphitheater in the town of citizens and an amphitheater in the military city. I don't want to bore anyone, but by the end of the term, I think everyone in this House who's heard me will know. It is important that the urban amphitheater is located along the Esztergom-Budapest railway line, as is the museum itself. For this reason, the museum's staff have initiated the installation of signs providing information at the new station, in addition to the construction of the railway line, where there is also a block of the gas plant, which should not only indicate the location of the museum or, where appropriate, the location of the urban amphitheatre, but also a few words about the buildings themselves, the museum and the gas plant. But it could be said similarly that at another point in the railway station, the wildlife of the Swampmill could be presented. Well, I hope I've brought you a little closer to Óbuda's culture, and thank you very much for listening.
u2015-03-19-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work throughout the week, thank you for the work of the notaries, the clerks of the minutes, the staff of the Parliament's Office. The Parliament will resume its work on Monday at 11 a.m. The meeting's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 7:02 p.m.]]
