u2015-11-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 14th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Mr József Tóbias, Head of Group, MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-11-02-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It has been said several times in this Chamber over the last year that social peace must be monitored under all circumstances by a national responsible government and politicalised in such a way that the tensions in society do not increase, but strive to achieve economic growth, competitiveness and the right to a better life by every means. I must say that today there is no national government responsible for Hungary. He has a party government where the interests of the elite of the two parties are superior to that of the real national interest. It is one thing that you have eliminated the measurement of poverty data by the KSH and that others, other civil society organisations, have to do this - and a special thanks to Habitat for Humanity Hungary for being able to do it for you - to face the fact that today there are 800 thousand families living in Hungary who, after paying the bill, are in poverty; that 522,000 people live in households without toilets, 240 thousand apartments with fixed water, and 1 million households without canals. There are 196 thousand children in this country today, who do not have electricity in their room, and there are nearly 1 million people in Hungary today, who cannot regularly heat their homes and have a 30 percent size among the poor. But if that is not enough, then let it be a demonstration of your policy today, where you in committee will vote off your national minimum programme, the eight-partisan proposal for the eradication of child hunger. [[It's grumpy. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Nana! Careful.]] which would have shown that, on the one hand, they have not only taken seriously what we have been talking about in this House for many years. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You should have voted!]] Instead, we wanted to associate real action with it by bringing together civil society organisations, artists, people from public life, regardless of party standing, and drawing up this proposal. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The MSZP is outrageous...!]] Don't be upset, Secretary of State, but take part in the committee, and then you will know that you have not supported this proposal. So much for your outrage. We demand Viktor Orbán and his government to stop this waste, stop urinating, because, while we are arguing about this, it has just become clear that there is 3 billion forints to heat football fields in winter. There's money for that. There's money for you to spend public money in the fields of your urbanization, be it the government, be it the National Bank. You guys have always been awkward about this. But when will they pay attention to helping millions of people living in poverty and poverty? Waste has become part of your policy. If the government is unable to change this because it is more important to its own interests than what is in the interest of the people, then we see and must say that you are not in the national interest. That is why we have demanded in the past months and demand that we continue today for those who take care of the salary increase, educators, public administration workers, soldiers, policemen, anyone who runs this country. We want there to be a wage increase in Hungary! You'll start a wage negotiation with the unions tomorrow. Let it be clear that all international and domestic analysts now agree that you are not only a barrier to economic growth, but also a direct excitation of emigration from Hungary, and a mass of shortages. All you have to do is raise wages. If you guys were to take me back from taxing everyone and just taxing each and every income, then there would be money to give people a raise. You have to decide whether you want heated lawns for yourself or you want heated homes in Hungary. This option still exists to this day. I look forward to seeing if tomorrow, as the result of the government and the conciliation negotiations, there will be a legitimate demand: the more wages, the higher quality of work is the opportunity for Hungary's real development. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-2	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-02-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Where was this kind of determination on the part of the MSZP fraction in relation to heated dwellings at a time when we should have voted on the reduction of the rent, for example, here in Parliament [[József Tobias: We voted for it!]] before that, in the social debate [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] not looking at the interests of service providers? [[Dr. István Józsa: I need more!]] Where was the similar commitment in the MSZP when, during their own governance, the price of the various charges was increased fifteen times? Where was the Socialist Party then? Then there was no one who stood up from the Socialist Party and said that hundreds of thousands of people didn't have heated homes and we couldn't raise the price of electricity and gas twice and triple? Then where was this kind of commitment of the Hungarian Socialist Party? When it comes to raising people's wages, where was this kind of commitment in 2008 when policemen, nurses, doctors, or teachers were taken away for a month's wages? [[István Tukacs: And in 2002?]] Where have you been, honourable Member, this kind of social commitment of the Hungarian Socialist Party? [[József Tobias: Talk about the present! Interviews from the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, If Fidesz-KDNP does not take on the policy of reducing costs and does not defend it today, every day in Brussels before the various European Union forums, competition or other battles related to reducing costs, whether by legal means or by other means, how much more people in their homes do you think would not be warm? How many more people couldn't heat up their apartment? A lot more! [[Dr. István Józsa: It could be much cheaper! Dr. Wind Bernadett: Energy efficiency grants...!]] And if you look at the amount of bills, for example: from 140 billion, you know, the reduction of the rent has reduced it to 77 billion forints. They owe me less than that. [[József Tobias: There is no heat in the rest!]] That's a lot more people getting ahead of themselves, and he can heat up his apartment. But we can look at this year after year, how much this problem has been, and how much it is now. How much do you think the number of people who have a problem heating up the apartment has fallen? [[István Tukacs: Now he's asking questions, and you're answering them!]] 250,000. [[Dr. István Józsa: We should respond, Mr. State Secretary.]] In the past, this was a problem for 13,7 percent of the population, and now only 11.2 percent of the population. Although you say that there are no KSH data of this kind, they will be published on the website of the KSH every November, only to respond to your first sentence. [[József Tobias: Poverty figures have not been disclosed! Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Is it already written? Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] There were 250,000 fewer people who, according to last November's communication, had any problems. That there are still some, that's clear, which is why the government has to take forward, for example, the policy of tax cuts. [[József Tobias: More tax than ever!]] And that leaves more money than people. You know how many thousand billion forints remain in the family, and from 1 January 2014 onwards, in addition, small-time families with several children, so that they do not have a problem with paying their rent or spending on any children. [[13.10]] Why couldn't you noticeably reduce personal income tax? Why couldn't you reduce the public costs paid by people working from month to month? Why didn't you step up there? Why didn't you say there, then, that, yes, people should take more home, so we cut personal income tax? Why did they not dare to take such action and pass on these public burdens to large multinationals? Because they are now paying the public burdens that people had paid in Hungary. But I can tell you another number, honourable Member, how many people say that your holiday was a problem. The number of these has decreased by 700,000 in the last three years, with 700,000 more people who can afford a week's holiday. But even if we look at meat food consumption, 580,000 fewer people say that because of financial problems, they cannot eat meat food every two days. What you're saying clearly indicates that there are indeed about 400 thousand people in Hungary who live in very, very poor conditions. Obviously, our task is to help them, but it doesn't matter that we came from a number much larger than 400,000, and the number of those living in Hungary is reduced. This is due to both the reduction of the overhead and other government measures. And if you're worried that someone who's in such a difficult situation can learn, be warm, in healthy conditions, why didn't you support budget support for the start-up of children's homes? It's a shelter for 12,000 children and parents, it's in every year's budget, we've created 112 of these, it's in the budget, it's in the budget, and you didn't support the budget. Or the child risk program can help 80 267 children if you look at the summer data this year. Or in the schools, in 178 schools, we can help 3,500 children under normal conditions, in warm, heated rooms, in well-lit rooms to study. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] You know, honourable Member, it is possible to create a mood as if people in Hungary are living worse, only if they look at the data of the retail trade. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] then you see that ordinary wage workers now spend 7 percent more than they did a year ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-02-4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, With due respect, I ask my fellow Members to give up dialogue now. I think if we listen to each other, we'll be far ahead. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. How long will the billions for catching up continue to be wasted? " with the title " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-5	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In recent years, LMP has reported a number of catching-up programmes where corruption has been suspected, or at least hundreds of millions of dollars in waste. All of this has been revealed - and I will give you some examples - and all of this has been revealed, but the consequences have been lost. First of all, Ákos Hadházy and I presented the amazing expenditures of the program, from Opel Corsák to the HUF 30 million recruitment study, which probably doesn't exist, to the completely unnecessary purchase of 100 million offices. Then another program: we presented the programme for the training of a thousand Roma women, which Minister Zoltán Balog called one of the most successful programmes in the EU, in spite of the hundreds of thousands of forints of nurses and social assistants who could have completed these trainings in any market vocational training institution for a quarter of it; it was also a huge waste. After a while, we could also visit the Ministry, where we could look into the details. It turned out why this program was so expensive: on average, the executioners made HUF 10 million each for a few months of training for disadvantaged Roma women. Then we talked about the program of the "Road to the profession" - I mention the third programme - where a one-day professional event was held for HUF 30 million, not to mention any oddities. We have also shown the famous rabbit book of 31 million forints, which has been produced under the Eötvös programme, which has since been found to be from America. Last time, we've unveiled the program of state reform in Rome. We managed to train 1215 people from social inclusion as their main activity for 30 hours out of a billion forints. The programs are implemented by the National Roma Municipality and the TKKI, the background institution of the EMMI, led by former Fidesz MEP and prime minister Flórián Farkas. In the first place, the palace revolution is taking place, and the latter is using the public money so effectively that he wanted the snow cleared for HUF 25 million with the company specializing in the organisation of advertising campaigns from a school yard area - for HUF 25 million! By the way, the threads are connected: TKKI's former head, Tamás Köpeczi-Bócz, became ministerial commissioner in the midst of scandals, the State Secretary responsible for EU development in the EMMI. Dear House, How many more cases does the LMP have to investigate to stop this waste? How much longer will the billions be lost to catch up? How long will they allow serious billions to be killed in fake programs, and how long will they protect Florian Wolf? This is not an ordinary waste or, where appropriate, the distribution of corruption aid, in which case, the possibility of catching up with vulnerable, unfortunate people is being wasted. Earning money for poor people is not only a sin, but a despicable, despicable act. A responsible government can't tolerate this for a minute. It is not enough that the toolbox of domestic employment, education and social policy is contrary to any catch-up programme, even EU funds for this purpose are being stolen. According to the LMP, it is therefore necessary to stop the false catch-up programmes of ORÖ and TKKI and to basically rethink the catch-up policy. From this source, much more talented and scholarship programmes should be launched. We don't need the unreal priced Opel Corsák, we don't need the ten million fake studies, we don't need the 500 000 per person nurse training, we don't need the stupid rabbit textbooks, we don't need the mentors in the bath town to get expensive, but we don't need the project owners in the Podmaniczky-Watching Castle to do the opening and closing of the millions, and we don't need Flórian Farkas as prime minister. Why is he getting paid anyway? What kind of work does he do? How is it possible, in the area under his supervision, that suspicious cases come up, unbelievable waste, irresponsible farming? We suggest that you take your position away from him and ask him to stop covering for him. What is going on in this country as a catch-up policy is a disgrace in which Flórian Farkas has a special responsibility. Dear House, We think that creating a chance and catching up is not a waste, a lack of transparency. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It should be about suspicious cases, the current EU spending practice in the government must be eliminated, and a radical change must be made. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[13.20]]
u2015-11-02-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We obviously agree that this is one of the most important areas, because territorial differences are a huge problem in Hungary, and it is a huge problem that if a person is born into a small village in Eastern Hungary, how much harder it is for him to acquire knowledge from which he can make a living. Therefore, for those working in this area, maintaining confidence may be even more important than in other areas. That's why it was important for us, as you said, that when you had any suspicions about the use of any of the sources of catch-up, we tried to give you access to the file. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Thank you very much.]] which, in my view, has not been the case in the previous period since 2004, has not been the case since one Member or anyone else has been able to review these documents in addition to such transparency. But obviously we didn't just want to leave this to you, but we monitored and examined the fate of the forints spent here. As you know, honourable Member - but since you have said it again here, allow me to draw your attention to it once again - the very reason why we have ordered the Bridge in the world of work and the inquiry by the Prime Minister's Office over the summer is that if there is any irregularity, it should have consequences not only in speeches but also in decisions that can be legally assessed. You are aware that 12 cases of irregularities have been initiated in connection with the programme "bridge to the world of work" for HUF 272 million; 11 cases have been found to be irregularities, worth HUF 271 million, and HUF 228 million have been declared to be recovered at the end of the investigation. Some of the decisions have already become legal, another part has not yet been adopted, and second-degree proceedings are still under way. The entire project system has been reorganized. You know the changes that have taken place between the consortium members. In essence, the amount of aid has been reduced by half, as this is what the indicators show, as the employment cooperative as the main objective has been created, a large part of the training has also been created, but where this could not be ensured, we have reduced the amount of aid and we are talking about only half as much aid as we talked about at the beginning of summer. Some of what you said would probably have stopped in May-June, but after the investigation, after the change in the organisation of the aid, this will no longer happen. By the way, you said it well, because you know it very well, and I know it very well, and the newspaper readers know that there has not been a contract on any kind of snow sweep that you have mentioned here, which you have not paid a single forint, more precisely, in the amount you have mentioned. So this is a rhetorical turn of events, but, of course, no one swept snow and paid tens of millions to clean up snow. At the same time, honourable Member, before this organisation was established, whose hands it was in, it was able to carry out the catching-up projects on the part of the state. Here we were faced with a system of support when the State did not have any own institution that could take responsibility for spending these funds well. Obviously, there are many criticisms to be made of him, but he has built an infrastructure that can provide training for 7,100 people at the same time, in 178 classrooms, in 222 classrooms, and tens of thousands of people have turned in them. For example, in 2014 he was able to train 70,000 public workers, and he was able to complete and launch a lot of other catching-up programmes. You often refer to outsourcings: only 14 percent of all EU funds had to be solved by external suppliers, the rest you solved with your own civil servants, who are obviously employed according to the civil servant pay table in countless TKKI institutions, as you are present in 33 municipalities with some office in which they can also train. With the establishment of this institute which can unite the catching-up projects, which can bear the responsibility of the state, not in an uncontrollable way, one year, one civil society organisation, the next year, and the other civil society organisation, we have made institutional progress. And we can continue to offer the Member, as we have so far, that if he has any suspicions anywhere, as he has always been able to come into the Ministry and look at the documents, we will continue to provide him with the documents in which he wishes to see them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Miklós Soltész, KDNP Group also asked for a speech before the agenda, with the title of joint assistance for Transcarpathia and Ukraine. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, a serious statement was made from the mouth of US Ambassador Colleen Bell, who said: "We are aware that a record number of migrants have arrived in Hungary, and the country is facing a very difficult choice. The country has the right to protect its borders, but it also has a duty to help refugees. Xenophobic, i.e. xenophobic rhetoric, does not help us find a solution to the problem. Incomprehensible is the Ambassador's sentence, her thinking, as the Hungarian border protection has succeeded. It is incomprehensible, as a very large proportion of European public opinion already calls for similar solutions from their governments. It is incomprehensible, because the Hungarian authorities and the people gave all the help to the needy, the fallen. We could be worried about the violence in America. We are also concerned about the pointless death of students and teachers who died in school shootings. The reason why this attitude is incomprehensible to the Ambassador is because we have much more common ground together, we would have much more to do together than to destroy the relationship between the two countries with unilateral statements. Such a task is a joint solution to the serious political decisions and serious economic situation affecting Ukraine as soon as possible. These tasks include humanitarian assistance requiring a common solution. Here it is worth examining for a moment, looking at what has happened in recent days at the Ukrainian, including the local elections in Transcarpathia. Perhaps the most important is the broad, uniform cooperation between the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia and the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Ukraine. It was also important that our churches, such as the Roman Catholic Church, the Reformed Church and the Greek Catholic Church, supported the Hungarian coalition. It was also important to support civil society organisations, including the Pedagogical Alliance. But the Hungarian government's foreign policy, economic and educational support and the efforts of humanitarian aid in Transcarpathia contributed to the success. The latter is not a selection between those who are Hungarian, Ukrainian and Ruthenian. This is why it is possible that the elections in Beregszász, Nagyszőlős, but also in other settlements, have brought a large Hungarian victory, with Ukrainian people helping in the success of the elections, in a very large number of cases. Dear Parliament, Ukraine needs further help. People are still in trouble in Transcarpathia and in a very difficult situation. Therefore, in retrospect, I thank the charitable organisations, the well-intentioned people, for their help so far, for the government's support, but please - because we continue to have a huge task - both the charitable organisations and the well-intentioned people and the sister settlements to continue with the support that they have started over the past few months. But here I address and ask the American Ambassador for her well-intentioned help so that we can offer a generous American offer of joint humanitarian assistance to Ukraine and Transcarpathia. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government.
u2015-11-02-11	Thank you very much. I thank you not only for your speech, honourable Member, but also for your personal visit to Transcarpathia, even beyond Transcarpathia, before you spoke about this issue, and for taking care of the Hungarian community there personally, as it has not been there for the first time since the crisis started, but for many times now. The Government of Hungary - although the immigration crisis in world politics is obviously distracting many people - also has the task of helping Transcarpathian Hungarians where they need it most, and they need it in quite a lot of areas recently. For this reason, this spring the government decided to grant a HUF 85 million grant, and this summer we added it to a very broad support programme, and the government will provide a total of HUF 650 million in funding this year. [[13.30]] The largest amount of this is HUF 486 million to supplement the income of the teachers there. It is a well-known fact that hyperinflationary means that it is very little now, whether it is the wages of teachers or others, it is very difficult to buy the most basic food. Not to mention that in the approximate winter season, when a person pays the rent, he goes to the average wage, and then he has nothing left to live on. In addition, the government provided HUF 116 million in support of children's meals. Of this, we can provide at least 4,000 children of preschool age in Transcarpathia for meals from Hungarian sources; it serves 50 million forints to help the pastors' work in Transcarpathia. He started on 2 June with the help of civil and charitable organisations, with the effective cooperation of the Secretary of State, with a donation of HUF 100 million, 8 trucks carrying 126 tons of food, medical aid, half of them to Transcarpathia and half to Ukrainian territories beyond Transcarpathia. This summer more people could meet young people from Transcarpathia in the Erzsébet camps, as we hosted 3,000 young people in the Erzsébet camps. Here in Parliament, together with my fellow Members, we took them around Parliament for an hour; before they went home to Transcarpathia, they came to this Parliament. I trust it's been a week for them to relax, recharge, otherwise, during the year, with difficulties. It is also particularly important to grant these Transcarpathian subsidies, as you know very well that Ukrainian legislation is not like Hungarian legislation in Transcarpathia. The Hungarian-language, church-reserved Lyceums, where a good part of the Hungarian youth attends, where they can receive training in Hungarian, do not receive any kind of state support. While in Hungary a minority school or a church school receives the same support as a public school, unlike in Transcarpathia it does not receive the same amount of support, it does not receive any kind of support. The fact that the Transcarpathian Hungarians were able to preserve schools is due to the financial involvement of churches and churches, so it is important that Hungary also tries to help these institutions survive from here, the mother country. It is also important to note that in the Eastern Partnership programme, the total amount of HUF 200 million is a resource that can be used for educational, cultural or ecclesiastical institutions. There could be a variety of unique examples of how the Hungarian government supports the operation of the Pedagogist Association with HUF 6 million or even the various educational programmes of the church districts with millions of forints; teachers' further education or the Hungarian summer academy is also supported by millions of items by the government. The textbook and educational equipment support or the support of the sporadic education can all be listed from the 33 million HUF package we try to provide for Transcarpathia in the field of public education. And obviously we will continue to do so, as the secretary of state will visit Transcarpathia in the days, and will carry Hungarian language textbooks, Hungarian as a foreign language textbooks, or textbooks for deeper learning of the Hungarian language to Transcarpathia. In addition, as the Secretary of State, Mr President, pointed out, not only the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, but also the Ukrainians in Ukraine, were important objectives for Hungary. Ukrainian children could participate in the Venetian camp. And obviously Hungary is also looking at the possibility of continuing higher education courses in Ukraine that may cease, either in Eastern Hungary, at the Nyíregyháza College or elsewhere. There are 4-5 thousand higher education students in Eastern Hungary. Here we have to look at the fact that it is better if it is a training in Ukrainian-Russian languages accredited in Hungary, according to Hungarian rules, or a training accredited by Ukraine, but it is absolutely important to help them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Seven hundred people can be admitted to college immediately, but we are also looking at further expansion of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-02-12	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Social workers can stay on the side of the road? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to begin my speech before the agenda by saying that the situation in the social sphere remains the same. It is still the sector where the workers are most vulnerable, the closest to poverty, the danger of which is the best, because their wage situation is still the worst in the country. We know very well what the situation is, what the processes that are affecting the whole country are also affecting the sphere, and especially because these processes are in a difficult situation, which are more relevant in the social sector. What do I mean? I'm thinking about emigration. Today, whether you are a multi-graduate or a member of the sector for decades, you don't have to think about what to choose many times: stay here for this ridiculous salary or go out to the West, go out to, say, Germany or England, and care for an elderly person or a disabled person, take care of, five times, ten times as much salary as you make at home. I'd like to save a few minutes of your answer to the Secretary of State. I would rebut the reasons and arguments that we hear about the great measures that the government has taken, and how great they have affected the workers in the sector. Let's start with the one-key transmitter. Due to the low wage, the wage approximated to the minimum wage, the worst was the workers in this sector: thanks to the single-key tax, they did not increase, but decreased their salary because they could not live with the tax credit. The family tax relief. Unfortunately, there are two options in the sector in Hungary today. One is that there are very young starters who, with this income, this wage, these prospects, do not dare to start a family - they do not often have the physical opportunity - so family tax relief does not mean anything to them; or the old colleagues are also not affected by the family tax, so their salary has not really increased. As an answer, I still get what great allowances the government has given me. There are two problems with replacements. One of the problems is that the wage tension is not reduced, but further increased, because in many cases colleagues who have worked there for many years, because they have received their salary increase as a bonus, so the other allowances no longer realize this, they earn almost as much as they did yesterday's young staff without a degree. It's unfair and unfair. And this is the latest table we have seen, which, according to the government decree that entered into force on 1 July, means a further increase in social benefits, just a few words that remind me of this table: pointless, incomprehensible, illogical, unfair and unfair. And why he's like that? Fears have worked, physical workers have stayed on the side of the road again, and they've been kicked in the ditch for good. This table, which, once again, provides only a bonus, so that the above mentioned allowances are equally valid, after 25 years it can only offer a wage increase to the physical population in the sector. And the rest, if you look at it, you can't find any logic, no consistency, no interpretation. It raises a little bit on the standard of living of some workers, but that's not enough. Where's the promise you made? Where's the social career model? Where's the predictable future? Because a bonus is not a predictable future, because as the government gave it a decree, it can withdraw at any moment after a government meeting. If there is a career model, it has fixed dates, raises, categories; then there is no problem, then everyone can relax and accept the initial difficulties, the difficulties of starting a career, even the lower income, because they know that if they are successful in the profession, then in a few years they can have a sure existence. Because let's not forget what they wear on their shoulders. Let's not forget that if this sphere falls out because it says overnight that it's enough, it's unlivable and unlivable, if the system collapses, then what? What about the needy? What will happen to those in need of care? What about elderly people in homes? What will happen to families in the household that need this minimum help to live from day to day, whether mentally, physically or financially? I'm asking you, what's it gonna be? Where's the social career model? How long are the workers in the sphere being fooled, and when are they going to end this sentence? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-02-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you look at some specific examples of how much more you can earn now working in a social sphere than before, say, five years ago, you see that if someone has been on the field longer, say, 37 years, but has a skilled worker's education, and is doing child care work, then he is now earning 36 thousand HUF more than he earned before, say, four years, and I do not take into account this tax reduction part, only his gross salary. [[13.40]] And if, as a career beginner, one thinks that he is going to become a family care provider in the social sphere, then the starting salary is now 43 700 HUF higher than it was five years ago. Obviously, everyone would be pleased if there were more wage increases that I could tell you about here, but, you know, honourable Member, obviously the rise in the performance of the economy that the government is making. As a result of the Hungarian reforms, the government has additional resources to raise wages in the social sphere, and has done so in two steps in 2014 and 2015, and we hope that the reforms that work will provide further coverage. You know that from 1 January 2014 we have introduced a sectoral wage substitute in the social sphere. This meant a budget extra resource of HUF 12 billion; it means that between HUF 6 thousand and HUF 17 200, the amount that social workers receive as an extra income is obviously based on their classification. On average, since January 1st last year, so herestova has been earning more by HUF 9,000 for two years, because of this sector's salary. This year, too, there has been a wage increase, not only through tax cuts, but also through wage increases. There has been a fee supplement, they will receive it from July this year, and we have secured HUF 7.6 billion in this budget. Here, there is a much higher standard of how much money has been paid, because from the relatively small amount to the HUF 68 thousand, there is a possibility of who receives what increase, but here let me refer back to the contradiction in the Member's speech. You said that it was very important to protect those people from working at home, from going abroad, from doing this activity there, even for multiple wages. That is exactly what the wage supplement introduced this year was intended to do. After all, we can see that there are people who have a higher professional education, who are better qualified, who have been on the field even longer, and who have no sectoral qualifications, who have no professional qualifications. We thought that if there was an opportunity to give wage increases and wage supplements to those working in the social sphere, we would try to reward performance as much as possible, so that whoever took their own training more seriously, and therefore has a higher level of education, who is more well-groomed and well-groomed there, because he works right next to their bed, and for this he has even received university or college level education, and for them a differentiated increase, they can now take home more than four to five years ago, with several tens of thousands of HUF. So, I think these two rates of wage increase, which first provided 93,000 people, and then at the second stage of this year, with an extra wage supplement for 63,000 people, are helping something to do with the situation that, in fact, still needs to be improved, because those working in the social sphere are really not those who are earning much. So the government has moved at these two increases in wages so that we can also increase the appreciation of the profession, and we can give higher wages to everyone who works in the sector. You know that, for example, in the case of home assistance, an amendment that will prefer a higher amount of real professional - caregivers and caregivers - in the long term will enter into force on 1 January exactly, while those who do not provide such professional work will obviously not receive the same amount as those with qualifications and real care activities. Here, too, we try to differentiate and acknowledge the work of those with real professional qualifications. It is also important that it is possible to implement a large, comprehensive programme, whether you call it a career or a wage development, if there is also a permanent structure of the social sphere. If this occurs in the coming months, in the next six months, we can talk about a comprehensive, career-like change, but the government has not yet leaned back, but has also helped social workers from increasing budget revenues. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kósa, leader of the Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech. It's an address. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-11-02-17	Mr. President. Dear House, The resettlement quota proposed by Brussels, which is a mandatory quota for illegal immigrants, has been in the mood for European policy for a long time, but it has not been clear where this proposal comes from, who are behind it, what forces. At the end of the week, however, it turned out that one of the people suspected to be behind the idea was not only in person but also in serious money. American billionaire George Soros issued a statement in which he said that he supports and agrees with the resettlement quota. In fact, he went on to say that Europe will need this resettlement quota system for a long time - according to him. Although the European people did not ask him what his opinion was in America about what Europeans needed, he also suggested that at least one million people a year should migrate to Europe from the zones they are coming from, which - no misunderstanding - according to the European rules of family reunification: 1 million people a year immediately, and then 4 million more for family reunification, or even suggested that these people should be given HUF 4.5 million when they are established in Europe. In fact, it also suggested that if a European country did not have the money to do so, it would have to be financed by credit. I think, who did not yet understand, when European politicians talked about it, many Hungarian politicians here in this House, that this is not some sort of biblical plague, behind which there are flesh-and-blood interests, people and billions of dollars; this illegal wave of immigration is not a blow to us by some particular whim of fate, it is the work of people, of whom George Soros has spoken now, and he has said nothing less than that, by the way, the crises that have broken out in these zones are essentially the responsibility of the European countries, and Europe must therefore stand up for the costs of these crises, which is a grave mistake - that many countries of the European Union have nothing to do with these crises. György Soros would probably do better to trade elsewhere, where those countries are, but he knows this precisely, because he also financed part of the forces involved in the start of crises, see Arab Spring, Orange Revolution and its associates. So he knows that the vast majority of the countries of the European Union have nothing to do with this, yet, as an American, he would rather take the blame with us, and, as a moneyman, he would benefit from it if European countries were forced to give the illegal immigrants the annual support he modestly referred to as 4.5 million. Just note that this is higher than the annual income of most Hungarians, and it is not clear whether this should be given once, this is a gross or net tax-free benefit, how you imagined it - although obviously György Soros has special experience in life in connection with the tax. I think there's a clear picture of how to interpret this illegal wave of immigration. And it is also clear that everyone who wants to protect their country from these people, from those who, by the way, want to take advantage of the life situation of the unfortunate people, is going to take some manipulative action, if we want to protect the country from these intentions and protect Europe, then we have to fight the compulsory resettlement quota. There is nothing else we can do, the Hungarian people have already made this clear during the consultation, we protect the country, and there is nothing else we can do if we still have a little faith in Christian Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2015-11-02-18	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Antal Rogán wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Minister. [[General noise.]] Before you begin your speech, Minister, I would like to ask my honourable fellow Members to take their seats, the basic noise in this Chamber is very high. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-11-02-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, today there are two positions on the immigration issue in Europe. One of the positions represented by the Hungarian Government and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is that, in the first place, borders must be protected, so-called hotspots should be established outside European borders, and the problem must be addressed in Turkey or even in Syria. Another position is the mandatory quota system in Brussels based on the logic of George Soros. Ladies and gentlemen, The quota, let's be honest, means mandatory resettlement. It means that the European Union is obliging immigrants to be introduced into the nation states, regardless of what national parliaments or national governments think, and what is more, people's opinions in this area are not very interested either in the European Parliament or in the Brussels Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, The compulsory introduction quota is calculated on the basis of a formula. I hold the Juncker formula in my hands, fellow Members. I would not call it simple, but this also has consequences for Hungary. The 1 million people that George Soros is talking about are spooky in tune with, say, the expectations the German government has set out about how many people will get to them by the end of the year. They're talking about a million, a million, 200,000 people. If I start from the Juncker formula, this would mean that for Hungary, for 1 million people, 13 200, 1 million, and more than 15 thousand people a year. If we assume, as the research institute of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has said, that this immigration process will continue for at least five years in Europe, and add that we have not even talked about family reunification here, I have to say that, on the basis of the Juncker formula, the compulsory resettlement quota will mean the introduction of a szeged number of people into Hungary in five years. Ladies and gentlemen, All of this by questioning the meaning of it. The Government of Hungary, ladies and gentlemen, does not consider the quota to be acceptable either, and we consider it really pointless, illegal and dangerous. We find it pointless because we think it does not solve the crisis, but actually exacerbates the crisis. The quota is an invitation to migrants and it does not solve the issue of placement at all. In Germany, Austria, many today believe that the quota will avoid immigrants, but who will be settled in Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, what will prevent them from returning to Germany or Austria within the Schengen area? Or do we want to limit freedom of movement within the Schengen area? On what grounds? Do you want to choose on a racial basis at the borders, which would be unacceptable? Or, fellow Members, this implies that the end of the quota will be that some European countries will restore their borders within the Union due to the rapid increase in pressure, which, in turn, would mean the end of the Hungarians' freedom of movement and the Schengen system. You can see, ladies and gentlemen, now the Austrians have also started construction work within the Schengen borders, on the border between Austria and Slovenia. It is true that they are only building a gate with side wings, but no matter how cunning they are with words, honourable Members, it is ultimately that they too want to defend themselves, which can be considered natural, but it is also natural that what is viewed from there by a gate fence and from Slovenia by a fence gate. Ladies and gentlemen, Fortunately, this is not necessary at the Austrian-Hungarian border, because we Hungarians at the Serbian and Croatian borders protected Austria's borders towards us, as well as the borders of the European Union towards us. We did not use the words, we acted when we had to, and I must say that my fellow Members here in Parliament can be proud that Hungary had the power to defend the Hungarian and European borders in good time and with sufficient determination. Returning to the quota, my fellow Members, the Government of Hungary also thinks that the mandatory quota is illegal, because according to the existing European conventions, treaties and procedures, European leaders had no power to make binding decisions in this regard. Therefore, like the governments of other European countries, the Government of Hungary would like to appeal to the European Court of Justice, because we consider the compulsory resettlement quota to be illegal. I think this will also require the support of the Parliament and the people. Let us also say frankly, ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is not alone in this area, because the Visegrád countries do not support it, on the contrary, they are opposed to the mandatory [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the introduction quota. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-02-20	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-11-02-21	Dear Parliament, Today's speech following the agenda was submitted by President Novák, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Nándor Gúr, MSZP. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward before the agenda: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Mátyás Firtl, KDNP; Gábor Staudt, Jobbik; Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz. Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Péter Ágh, Fidesz. On Wednesday, Péter Ágh, Fidesz, applied for a speech after the agenda. No one came forward on Thursday's day after the agenda.
u2015-11-02-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the 2008 XL on gas supply. T/5349. For the discussion of the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposed by the Hungarian Development Bank on the 2001 XX. T/663. Following a discussion of the Commission's report on the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Before that, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/6326 on the amendment of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 The final vote on this proposal - subject to the opinion of the Budgetary Council - will take place either as the last vote tomorrow or as the final vote on 9 November. Both decision-making dates are included in the agenda proposal on this condition. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, I declare that Parliamentary motion for a resolution on certain house rules 3. On the basis of its section, the Fidesz Group elected Mr György Balla, Gergely Gulyás, János Halász, István Németh Szilárd, Zsolt Németh as Deputy Group Leader from today. Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate you on your appointment and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/6326. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in a 60-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the committee. [[General noise.]] [[14.00]] Dear Parliament, If our fellow Members may leave the Chamber because of an urgent public task, I would ask them to do so quietly. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-11-02-23	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Act C of 2014 on Hungary's draft budget for 2015 was amended by T/6326. We're talking about text number 1. Mr President, The amendment of the 2015 Budget Act became necessary because the Government intends to take a number of measures that were not foreseen in the planning of the 2015 Budget. The general debate on this bill took place on 7 October, and thereafter the Committee on Budgets held and concluded its detailed debate at its meeting on 13 October. The amendment of the budget for this year was essentially necessary for two reasons. One is that the increase in mass immigration and the number of illegal border crossings represents a significant surplus for the government, so it intends to increase the reserve of extraordinary government measures by HUF 60 billion for the remainder of the year to carry out additional tasks related to the migrant situation and to deal with other unexpected situations. Another aspect of the amendment is that MTVA's spending has increased significantly this year and the debt interest charges have reached a critical point that would already be problematic for MTVA to repay. Given that the debt consolidation of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund of HUF 47.2 billion does not increase public debt or deficit, we can therefore support this amending intention. A proposal for an amendment by the Member has all been submitted, but it has not been supported by the Committee. At its meeting on 21 October, the Committee set out a further intention to amend it to finance the preparations for the development work set out therein, on the basis of the agreements signed under the Programme "Modern Cities." The additional HUF 25 billion is covered by higher excise duty and general traffic tax revenues than planned, so this does not jeopardise the achievement of the deficit targets. In view of this, I call on this House to vote in favour of amending the budget in this respect. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented, which will be presented by two speakers within a total timeframe of 30 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, We are changing this year's budget several times, which is something that is in this budget or in this amendment, and I think it is justified, of course, because life is also writing our lives, and it is obviously full of issues that need to be financed. There are things that we do not consider to be supported, there are things that we will always have to support, and I say this in a row because we are talking about three different cases, because it is very unfortunate, and obviously there is only one political edge that the financial government is serving, that there is only one political edge that the financial government is talking about, that things that really have nothing to do with each other, have so much to do with each other, that everything has budgetary implications in Hungary today, so there is, of course, also the management of the refugee issue, so there is, of course, the public media, and the development of cities also has budgetary implications. Some of them we agree with, some of them we disagree with, and I'm going to tell you that right now. With regard to asylum, I say several times here, in this House, that I am pleased that, if the government has recognised it, but we must now explain that the Hungarian Socialist Party did not wake up on this issue, not even in September, that in July we presented our proposal for a amending budget that we would have liked to have been in border surveillance in the same order of magnitude, that the public bodies, organisations or law enforcement bodies or organisations involved in the registration of refugees would have targeted budget support that only these bodies could have used, and that we would not have wanted to increase the appropriations for extraordinary expenditure with this amount. And here, our explanation is very, very simple, because the amount of extraordinary expenditure is not always spent on extraordinary expenses, but it is spent on expenditure that they are either unable to pinpoint elsewhere, or they simply think about doing certain things later, and it turns out that it must be financed from the state budget. We do not want the money that needs to be spent on border police, border guards or the care of refugees or their registrations to be used to organize sporting events or to renovate or build sports facilities, sir, to create other extraordinary and obviously missing events or facilities that I have not listed here. The government treats them like they've been given faith. We have therefore tabled our proposal and also the amendment that was not supported by the committee, which was also said by my fellow Member Szűcs, in which it was said that this amount would be given to the police and the Immigration and Nationality Office in a targeted way. This was not supported by the committee, and it is also justified by the Secretary of State that if it is not enough to place it on one of the lines, then it will be much easier to transfer it between extraordinary government measures. We believe that, unfortunately, it is too easy to redeploy in this, and for this reason, for the sake of greater transparency and rational detail, we would have wanted the money to be transferred separately and in a targeted way to where Parliament is planning it in its entirety. The HUF 47.2 billion loan to MTVA, in fact it is about a debt transfer that the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support, for several reasons it cannot support. From a financial point of view, we cannot support this because, in the past period, MTVA, together with NMHH, has received more than 700 billion forints, and we believe that from a financial point of view, at least it is not impossible that out of these more than 700 billion forints, in five years, we could have taken at least steps or even paid the total amount of HUF 47.2 billion without having to raise the amount given to them again this year as budget support, and without having to take over the HUF 47.2 billion in the current budget that MTVA owes its former suppliers or even for the non-benefit contracts. But we think, after five years, why this is timely and why we have to clash with the support of MTVA, for example, with the extra resources to be used for asylum or with the budget support of the modern cities and urban development programmes, why this must be confused now, there can be only one reason for this, and we trust that this is the only reason, and that is only the political cynicism, which, unfortunately, I say once again, is now served by the financial government in this respect. Unfortunately, I have to say that the committee meeting had a moment when one of my fellow Members pointed out that MTVA was very good at communicating the events on the refugee issue, and that is probably why we should not refuse MTVA this HUF 47.2 billion. I believe that the ten-year budget of a Hungarian mid-town can now be given because it is not very objective, in fact, subjective, because the Hungarian public media can completely subjectively spatter Fidesz propaganda in this country, because I think that it should not involve extra support, but should serve to remove it rather or move it towards objectivity. These are our non-financial arguments on this issue, and I have to mention in any way that we have said in the NMHH report, and of course in every professional report, we say that MTVA's need for objective information has been reduced in the past period, a Fidesz propaganda machine, which the government, not the government, would like to display with any density, in any invisible broadcasts and with any immeasurable viewings, will be able to spend any amount. So far, 700 billion forints have been spent on it, and now they're spending another 47 billion forints on it. [[14.10]] On the third issue, as regards the modern cities, I believe that our position will be very clear, and that will, of course, be explained by others other than me. We consider this to be the only eligible objective included in the current budget amendment, and let me highlight one or two figures here. The last time we amended the budget, Parliament decided to rearrange HUF 144 billion. We say that only the BKV and the City Park made up 63 billion forints out of 144, and now we decide to rearrange and spend 132 billion forints with the targets, and we believe that it is only 25 billion of the programme of the modern cities, which is in place in its justification as well as in its location, and, of course, in the refugee issue, we think that it is necessary to put resources there. However, if we do not place the source in a targeted way where we are going, we are unfortunately afraid that it will cost 63 billion forints, not the law enforcement agencies, because we must say that we have much more experience than we have any illusion left. These things, these figures, figures, where your direct intentions appear and all the other roundings that we put together and if we balance them with each other, we will see the priorities that this Parliament has put before you politically: it can finance its own political propaganda and the measures it serves to an extreme extent, no matter how much public money we are talking about. Then you can leave as much as you want. The development of cities will not get as much, but not even half of it will get as much as it intends to spend on the debt settlement of MTVA. Where is the common sense, Mr. Secretary of State, and where is the proportionality where it could be demanded and properly called upon on a government to spend at least five large cities in Hungary outside Budapest and to do at least as much for a programme that receives at least as much as the debt to be assumed by your media empire, the public media, which is not even objective. Where is it, Secretary of State, where is common sense and where is the proper prioritisation when, at the time of the last amendment of the budget law, Parliament voted for HUF 53 billion and HUF 52.9 for the BKV? [[Péter Benő Banai's intervention:]] 52.3? It is the right thing to say; Parliament voted for HUF 52,3 billion for the BKV. Of course, we have already read in the paper that they have not, because this was the task of the Budapest General Assembly, but, Mr. State Secretary, why can five major cities only get half of this amount? I think we don't have the kind of proportionality here, we don't have the kind of planning here, and we don't have the common sense thinking that we think we can safely expect from the financial government. Of course, we know that you must also carry out political orders, as is the case in the Hungarian world today, in most and all of the world. So the professional work has been horribly devalued. I just wanted to draw attention to these proportions. To sum up, we would like to support the money spent on dealing with asylum, but we would like to bind the government's hand more by sending the aid to targeted lines. With regard to MTVA, we cannot support it, and we will support the presentation with regard to the modern cities. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-02-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, another minority speaker of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-02-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A lot has already been said about the issues raised at the committee meeting. Let me start right away by taking over the $47 billion public media debt. There was a very specific debate here, not only at the committee meeting where the budget was amended, but also at the committee meeting where the NMHH closed last year and its budget for next year. And, as I said then, I have also said at the other item on the agenda, and I am telling you now, Mr Secretary, I find the situation and the situation that we cannot answer fundamental questions regarding the NMHH to be nonsense. But not so much that it is not what you want to spend your HUF 9.1 billion reserve next year, by the time this huge reserve is provided, but also whether it will appear in your budget next year and, if so, in what way this debt transfer will appear, which is not yet voted for. So we don't even know if it was planned or not. When we asked you about the NMHH, you said that you were neither responsible nor competent in this regard, nor were any of you here at the plenary debate, nor at the committee meeting. They were careful to avoid the location of the committee meeting, as was the case with the plenary session when these two very important agendas were discussed, so as not to give an answer, for example, to this question. Because if you are in on it, then why did you put the transfer into these two agendas, and if you are not in it, then what are we going to vote on tomorrow, because the two are not in any way compatible with each other. It is regrettable that in the same way we did not get an answer to any of our questions, and it remains a question of what exactly does this 47 billion mean. So under what conditions will the government assume this particular debt, to whom, how, at what rate will it expect to repay it. We know that it will be part of the public debt, so now not only will this be repaid by the otherwise extremely small public media, but also by the totality of tax-paying citizens, so that you will have to cover it with some kind of tax revenue, because the budget itself is based on collecting as much tax as possible, and then these things that this amending budget will be about and you will be able to finance. So, yes, the early riser and hardworking little man will also pay this HUF 47 billion debt, which we know is because it was also said in the debate that this is the result of an earlier question that raised very serious questions and has never been settled by anyone, a certain house purchase issue, which is again likely to be enriched by offshore knights. No one has been accounted for, despite the fact that this country has worn out two Commissioners for accountability. One of them turned out to be more of an object, let alone a subject of accountability. Not only should he be accounted for, but he should be accounted for - no matter what, it was a parentheses thought - but this was not the issue either, although you have been ruling for more than five years now, this question has not been resolved with satisfaction. In fact, the state is putting another big burden on you instead of finally sitting in jail. The second issue is the raising of extraordinary government measures of HUF 60 billion by HUF 60 billion. On this issue, we also see that, yes, we naturally have good intentions in favour of this idea, but whether or not this amount will be spent on it, we will be able to find out next September-October when we can ask about it in the closing bill and see its accounts in this respect for the government. So we can't be sure at all. Unfortunately, the experience shows that you will actually spend it on it, although you want to spend it on it in general and in detail, but that it will actually be spent on it, there is no guarantee for that, Mr. Secretary, but that is the case. With regard to the program of modern cities, let me tell you something. We have read countless things in the media, for weeks now, and for months now, this has been going on in the public media, how many cooperation agreements the Prime Minister has concluded for cities with different county rights, and all kinds of promises have been made: twice two lanes, rehabilitation of downtown and countless important things. [[14.20]] Who among us wouldn't support this? Of course, obviously build up, make our country beautiful, this is a very important goal. But I feel that the Prime Minister has already made a commitment, without otherwise having the cover. You're going to spend 25 billion forints this year. When I asked the Committee on Budgets exactly what that meant, you listed the 11 county-righted cities that could farm with this money this year. This means that these cities have to spend about 2.5 billion forints in these two months ahead. I am very curious how to spend so much money with sudden, unexpected, now concluded contracts so that it really has an important role to play, and really effectively spend these money. But the Prime Minister said, in one of these agreements, that the aim with these funds or improvements is to avoid any reduction in standards from Austria. The roads may be very nice, the downtowns will be very nice and so on. However, we will certainly experience a drop in standards, which is a fall in living standards, because unfortunately, while you are providing a lot of money for this type of development, we will say, wages, wages for public sector workers or in the social sector, there is little money for the wages of those working in health care. So it may not be good to be so generous in one direction, while in the other we are extremely narrow. Orbán also said that he signed these agreements with an easy heart. I wonder why, when the government did not yet have cover to sign these agreements, how could it have made such promises with ease of heart. But I think it is the job of this House not to speak with an easy heart on this issue, but with a cool head. It would be nice to see exactly what this HUF 25 billion will actually cost, because it is a huge amount. It is also suggested that, as long as the government is already two years late on the basis of operational programmes up to the 2020 budget cycle, we also know that the government intends to spend some HUF 1500 billion on such improvements from TOP and VEKOP, then why this type of gift money is also needed. So, what are the improvements that can be financed from TOP and VEKOP, which are also included in the programme of modern cities, yet the government wishes to finance them separately in addition? I would add that the TOP itself and the VEKOP are a matter of which it would be good to speak at the plenary session once, as it also aims to develop and help cities with county rights, rather than trying to embrace small settlements and bring them closer to the cities with county rights, to larger cities, so as not to have so much territorial disproportion in the territory of Hungary, thereby stimulating internal migration. I don't think it's enough to explain what you're adding to this 25 billion, the five lines plus the press that you want, if you really want, you can find. This, in itself, does not justify the Parliament voting in favour of this trust. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-02-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether, as rapporteur, he wishes to speak now or at a later stage in the debate. [[Péter Banai Benő: Later.]] The Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Then you'll have 10 minutes of time. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. During the debate, two-minute speeches will not be possible, as there is a time-frame negotiation. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, who expressed his wish to speak in writing. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-29	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm a little indolent because we brought back the general debate at this stage of the final debate. We have brought it back in such a way that, in the course of the general and detailed debate, we have been able to answer practically all the questions that have been raised, and I think that the ladies and gentlemen of this House have received a satisfactory and reassuring answer. The most interesting question was when Mr Szakács asked why inappropriate things should be submitted as budgetary amendments. We also asked this at the stage of the debate, but perhaps the bigger problem would have been if this had been submitted by the government as a legislative proposal. These were perfectly compatible cases. I do not wish to say much about why the RKI of 60 billion has been raised, which is an extraordinary amount of government measures, because there has been quite a consensus on this issue both in committee and here. Everyone has accepted that it is right for the government to submit this amendment to cover the costs related to the migrant situation. Let us not talk about the fact that this entire package of amendments is about, ladies and gentlemen, that this is something that the government has to take into account when closing. You will have to account for each forint contained in this amendment. And what is interesting is that we are talking about HUF 47 billion granted to MTVA, although this is not a grant of money, but at the moment it is about taking over the commitment provided for in the annual budget law, as it has been included in the annual budget and in the public debt. So it is not about a new amount, and it is not about a real payment, it is about transferring this commitment from MTVA to the Government Debt Management Centre. We also reported at the committee meeting that the government will account for this in the report of the central budget, and everyone will see what these forints were spent on. We also talked about the fact that, in this case, the Government Debt Management Centre will be able to carry out these negotiations under better conditions, and that the central budget will have a better opportunity than MTVA. Let us not talk about why the central budget had to pay this amount at all. In the general debate and in the committee meeting, it was also said that the threads of this purchase of a certain headquarters were going back to 2007, and that the very long process began from 2007 when the Hungarian state and all taxpayers had concluded a very unfavorable contract for the replacement of the headquarters and the lease of the head office at that time; for a very long time, under extremely serious conditions, and after the change of government in 2010, the condition that the government guarantee to MTVA could be made for this buy-out. At the moment, we are talking about a very serious agreement of hundreds of millions of euros for all Hungarian taxpayers. In addition, in the original terms, after 40 years of lease, the television headquarters would not have been in Hungarian public ownership, but this can be done with this purchase. I think it's a part of this law that can certainly be supported, not just the previous 60 billion. [[14.30]] With regard to the programme "Modern Cities" I think it is safe to say that these commitments will also be presented to the House in 2016, when the 2015 budget is presented, and that all our fellow Members will be able to answer all the questions. We therefore take it for granted that the opposition had to listen to these political sentences. I asked for the floor so that we could translate a few sentences to clarify a few of these issues, even fogging into fog. I hope that the Members will also accept these sentences and will certainly support the bill for amending the central budget. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue with the speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group.
u2015-11-02-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Szűcs said the pro-government position, which was obviously supportive of the proposal, but I think that opposition criticism is entirely justified that this budget amendment is dealing with three completely different cases, the number of which we have been used to in recent years; there have also been times when the number of amendments approached the dozen. Compared to this, this year has not been so terrible, but it is clear that this proposal is also trying to tackle a matter that our faction has already proposed to deal with, for example, a long time ago. One of these matters is indeed the question of the additional budgetary needs in the context of the refugee situation. Let us not forget, in early July, we proposed an extraordinary parliamentary meeting, where, in addition to amending Btk., we also proposed that the bodies that can take action on the refugee issue, on the immigrant issue - the police, for example - and have an additional burden during this period, should receive adequate resources. My fellow Member, Mr László Szakács, said that this proposal, in this form and in this aspect, is not considered appropriate because it is uncontrolled in this way and exactly what you are investing in. Obviously, such extraordinary lines are also financed at the end of the year for a wide range of visual investments of marginal interest on the ground. We don't want that. So we would like to devote this amount specifically to a refugee issue. We have also heard the positions of the pro-government representatives on MTVA. I would like to say to you that if we calculate the budget for 2016 - which the Parliament has already negotiated and accepted - then MTVA and NMHH received total budget support of HUF 706 billion under your governance, of which only HUF 509 billion was granted to MTVA. We have now heard from Congressman Szűcs a brief argument as to why it is very important now to support MTVA by almost 50 billion again, but we cannot go beyond the fact that if MTVA were to carry out proper management, if it were not for its primary task to present your political goals in this way - just to view the news - or put a system of reasons behind them, it could indeed have been resolved. I think that with so much budget support over the last five years, you could have managed the debt you're talking about. This type of funding of public media, its financing of this magnitude, and the way in which voters receive biased news is unprecedented. So obviously this part of the proposal cannot be supported. Then let me say very briefly here, at the end, about the programme of modern cities, which I would stress is that we support. This could be an important program. It may be thought that a programme has been given a framework, which, of course, would have been mostly used by the European Union by spending it, because there are aspects, for example, of the Miskolc agreement that could be financed in this way; but this proposal is, however, about the fact that 25 billion is now being spent at the expense of this budget. I usually say that we support this type of development. We'd like to see exactly what that means. And what we would like to say to you is that, in fact, a year has passed since the first agreements were concluded: I can tell you that it is not very clear when and exactly what will be achieved. To give an example, which I have repeatedly brought to Parliament, such as the motorway connecting Miskolc to Kassa, which type of projects could obviously also be funded by the European Union, we are hearing more and more and more later in this regard. Now we hear that perhaps a seven - mile [1.7 km] section of this story can be realized between Tornyosnémeti and the border. Obviously, this is not what we really need to talk about; what exactly, from exactly what sources, is the big question here. And of course, you can tell the cities that are now receiving funding, but the whole programme is actually about how and how these projects will be implemented in the next three to four years. We do not fall into the trap, it is obviously very difficult to decide three such cases at the same time: so we are supportive of the programme of modern cities, we are rejected in relation to MTVA, and otherwise we had an alternative proposal in this respect in connection with the refugee situation. We will vote on the amendment accordingly, and we will end up abstaining on the motion. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The present budget amendment is indeed of considerable political importance, although it is short in scale. The first half is totally unacceptable to LMP. The government proposes to consolidate MTVA's debt of HUF 47.1 billion. According to the official justification, MTVA's expenditure has increased in recent months by launching the M1 news channel and the M4 sports channel to such an extent that it could no longer pay its loans. The main question to ask is why the MTVA with decreasing ratings could not keep the HUF 77 billion budget this year. All we had to do was get out of this. The second half of the bill would be eligible, as we acknowledge that the crisis in the years created an extraordinary situation that requires additional resources. What we do not understand is why the government, which, as early as January, drew the attention of the country-world to the growing migratory threat, is only now changing the budget, what has been done so far. Why hasn't the Immigration and Nationality Office increased its resources until now? Due to the refugee situation, the LMP also considers it necessary to strengthen the police and the Immigration and Nationality Office. How does the government handle the situation? In practice, it intends to increase the general reserve or create a cash register open from above in the budget of the Ministry of Interior, while LMP would have provided a targeted framework for the BAC. We do not consider the increase in the general reserve to be acceptable to such a case, even if, as my fellow Member, Szűcs, he said that this will be itemised later. We see the example. Unfortunately, the general reserve of the budget has been drained quite unscrupulous by the government this year. The vast majority of the HUF 100 billion budget, called the appropriation of extraordinary government measures in the draft law, was simply squandered, and is now requesting our approval to increase the framework by HUF 60 billion. The LMP disagrees with the cash register opened from above in the budget of the Ministry of Interior. Instead, the government should have accepted LMP's proposals. We have repeatedly called attention to the fact that police personnel are not sufficient to complete the tasks entrusted to them. The immediate implementation of the government's previously announced expansion of at least 3,000 police personnel would be the most important. We have therefore tabled a budget amendment to the budget for this year and next year, which would have increased the police budget by HUF 10 billion, thus allowing the necessary staff expansion. But let us not forget the wider context. While the government also talks at word level that the real solution could only be if refugees were not forced to leave their homeland, the budget spent only HUF 23 million on the international development strategy for this purpose, while the Czech Republic spends HUF 10 billion a year on the same. [[14.40]] Our position is that it is not enough to talk about dealing with conflicts outside the EU, but to do something about it. Therefore, we would also change the amount to this year's and next year's budgets, which would increase the amount to HUF 10 billion to achieve the goals of the international development strategy. Finally, the coverage of the planned measures is specific and the justification for each item is a bit of a smile. They mention the continued growth of the economy as a factor giving rise to an increase, and this growth is slowing down right now and is expected to be lower than 2.5 percent, with which budget planning is expected. They mention the improvement in taxpayer morale and online cash registers, but their impact has already been shown, and therefore no additional revenue is expected compared to planned. All of this shows that expenditure will actually be covered by an increase in the budget deficit. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-02-34	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Jobbik Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In order not to repeat the general debate by accident, I will now ask you specific questions and ask you very nicely to limit yourself to specific points in your reply. These are questions that we have asked in some sense, but we have never received a correct, accurate, detailed answer. My first question is why 60 billion of extraordinary government measures are 60 billion, why not less, why not more. Obviously, you have an exact idea of what schedule, when, what you're going to spend it on. Do me a favor. You're gonna have to share this with us right now. But in fact, in this period of time, so much and so much more. The other is that it lists in terms of 25 billion which cities will benefit from it. What are the cities getting this money for, I ask in general, and on the other hand, exactly what these cities are going to spend these funds for this year. Thank you very much, and I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Taking into account the experience of the past years, it is also in mind that there is an introduction between the possibilities of two thefts that seems to be favourable to the vote of Members within the walls of Parliament. This is the issue of modern urban development projects with HUF 25 billion. You know, just because it turns into some kind of lying sandwich and it tastes good in the middle doesn't mean it's in itself enough to be supportive. After all, the doubts are there, and the doubts have been there for a long time when we are talking about the issue of asylum in the order of HUF 60 billion. Why isn't the Immigration and Nationality Office directly involved in the story? Why not the police? Why are these sources used in other organisational frameworks? At a time when, in five years, it is practically HUF 700 billion that has been turned through MTVA and NMHH, how is there no HUF 47 billion source for the purchase of the property? You know, these two items alone and the HUF 25 billion appropriation, of which we do not even know the contents of, of course, is incompatible. Nevertheless, as far as the "Modern Cities" programme is concerned, we will obviously support it and both other cases that are unacceptable will be rejected. And the next time you propose amending the budget is when people will benefit from it, when they are going to do a moderate increase in the minimum wage, when they are going to touch on the issue of the guaranteed minimum wage and when they are going to cause a significant increase in income in the public sector. Well, then, make a budget change. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-02-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, to date, we still have no answer as to why the government will take over MTVA's debt of more than HUF 47 billion, while there is an amazing amount of reserve accumulation every year, perhaps next year it will exceed HUF 50 billion. In fact, from 28 percent of their budget for next year alone, the author does not know what it is necessary to spend it on, but it is good to have it as a reserve. There's an amazing amount of reserve that we can't rationally explain. In the past, we have heard informally that they are preparing for a post-government change, that they can hold the public media they have uploaded to their own people at any cost, even after the budget has been cut off, but now it is completely incomprehensible, that they are saving 9.1 billion from HUF 38.2 billion in the budget for next year alone, or more precisely from HUF 32 billion as a reserve. And this is particularly unacceptable in the context of the corporate scandal, because, in fact, one of the biggest crimes of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments was the TV headquarters scandal on Kunigunda Street, which unfortunately remained unaccounted for in the midst of the many past eight years. To date, there has been no accountability, even though it is very easy to find those who have contributed to this extremely serious contract of national economic damage. That is why we cannot accept the amendment of the budget in this area, because public media have the funds to cancel its loan, and the fact that I would like to close this problem with such a debt transfer is totally unacceptable. Yes, if the public media is moaning about these loan repayments, it will at least draw attention to the fact that there has not yet been a settlement, but there is no such thing as public media not being able to manage it. There's literally so much money in public media that they can't even spend it. Therefore, these sizes are unacceptable to us. It is worth comparing the budget of MTVA, for example, with the Buda-Cash-broker scandal, which is why the whole Hungarian financial world is rightfully debauched. It is about more than a hundred billion forints of fraud, which has been brought together in a decade and a half by the brokerage company's crooked leaders, but in a single year, MTVA alone takes little of that kind of money. Therefore, I think it is time to examine and receive more meaningful reports, because unfortunately, we have not yet seen exactly what these funds are going to do. The substantial, substantial part of the closing account itself is actually exhausting in one page, and in particular one set of amazing irresponsibles, and so much for transparency, why we have to take over 47 billion forints in the framework of this law. In the last MTVA account, we saw that in fact the accounts of more than 80 billion in expenditure were written down on one page, and even a lot of more than 60 billion forints with one line, we can only see that MTVA's media support and asset management activities are expenditures. They're not gonna go into details. Of course, we have seen what is going on in the name of programming, we have seen that historical films are not made, for example, and we could still list the various professional and other shortages and omissions. But in the midst of all this, it is unacceptable that one of the biggest scandals of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, the TV headquarters scandal, will be carried out by the state, swept under the carpet, closed, and the state will take over, and by another HUF 47.2 billion it will actually throw away the public media, while now the provision of reserves is slowly rising to more than HUF 50 billion, for which we have not received an answer, and therefore we ask again why this large reserve is not covering the loan repayments, but with such a new state debt transfer. I trust we can get a meaningful answer this time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Szabó, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor. [[14.50]]
u2015-11-02-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My fellow Members have already explained the budget amendment on the MTVA and the extraordinary fund, and I do not want to address these issues. However, it is truly thoughtful that regional studios have ceased to exist in the area of MTVA, so in principle we could say that MTVA could have been in a better position. Compared to this, we find that we need to keep pumping money to MTVA. Perhaps we should not make so many external reports on the refugee issue, as they certainly consume extraordinary amounts. However, we are very pleased that the government has actually recognised the importance of the countryside. This is precisely indicated by the fact that the programme of the modern cities has been launched, which has already been announced by my fellow Members. We can support this program. Of course, the question that Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs was also great was that it would be good to know exactly what this money would be spent on, with what schedule, because the Prime Minister had actually been in every county town with the exception of three cities, and promised between 20 and 60 billion forints for economic development, industrial development, roads, and I don't know what else. It would also be very good to know how, in addition to this money, EU grants and the use of cities' own resources, if they still have them, will be brought into line so that these programmes do not hit each other. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-11-02-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Banai if he wants to answer. [[Peter Benő Banai: Yes.]] I give you the floor, Mr Secretary, you have 10 minutes of time. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin by saying that, with one exception, no one has ever considered whether this amending budget law is justified or not. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck suggested that the amendments proposed would result in a deterioration in the position of public finances. Regardless of this opinion, however, both the international and domestic organisations and the Fiscal Council see in their opinion that the performance of the Hungarian economy will substantially exceed what is assumed when the budget is approved, with higher growth, and thus higher tax revenues. There is therefore a basis for the Honourable Parliament to negotiate the financing of several new expenditures. The amendment tabled concerns three issues, as has been said. The first issue, dealing with the migrant crisis, goes beyond whether or not there is a source to carry out the tasks, but I stress that the available resources ensure that there is an extra 60 billion expenditure. I cannot agree with Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet's view that the government has squandered the RKI and that the government has not acted in time. Please, it is clear from public decisions that nearly HUF 30 billion of extraordinary government measures have already been transferred and HUF 17.5 billion has been transferred from the National Security Fund. Public government decisions show which organisation, for what purpose these funds have been insured. It seems to me that Hungary has entered the European Union alone in time, has provided the resources alone, has built a triple security system that, while respecting European Union rules, ensures that conditions for normal living continue to exist in Hungary, so that Hungary protects its own borders and the common borders of the European Union. The amendment that has now been tabled will therefore partially replace the resources already provided by increasing the allocation of extraordinary government measures of EUR 60 billion. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs asked about the details of the use of HUF 60 billion. I would like to point out to you, Congresswoman, these government decisions, which are open to the public, and which organisation has been specifically transferred to forints, such as Government Resolution 1453/2015, Government Decision 1545/2015 or Government Decision 1659/2015 providing funds to charitable organisations. The $60 billion was an estimate. None of us can see the future exactly, but this estimate - I repeat - concerned the expenditure already made and the projected expenditure that is still ahead of us. When I say the word "the prognosticated" it also implies that we do not know exactly what direction the flood of migrants is taking, what further steps are needed. Therefore, the amendment tabled by the Hungarian Socialist Party does not, in my view, provide sufficient answers to address the migrant crisis. Just in order to ensure the necessary resources in the necessary place and in the necessary time, the RKI, increasing the allocation of extraordinary government measures, gives the government the power to provide resources and, in addition to the public government decisions already mentioned, as Mr Szűcs said, a detailed description of the use of this sum of HUF 60 billion will be presented in the accounts. I think that, with the aim of protecting the borders of Hungary and the European Union, everyone in this Parliament finally agrees; we can remember that this has not always been the case. I ask you to provide the government with the right means to follow European Union and domestic legislation in the interests of the nation in the future, as I think we have done so far, in an effective way. As regards the second amendment and subject matter, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's organisation must be sharply separated from the media fund. The amendment submitted by the Government is aimed at taking over the debt of the media fund. On the part of Mr Cook, the question has been raised as to where common sense is when the government initiates a debt transfer. Well, I could ask you where the common sense was with the managers of MTVA in 2007 when a contract was concluded that MTVA would have paid EUR 550 million for the use of real estate over a 40-year period, without the property being owned by MTVA at the end of the 40-year contract. Honourable Members, I would like to draw your attention to this: EUR 550 million for 40 years without the property being owned by MTVA. Compared to this, after 2010, the new management was able to reach a contract whereby the real estate was owned by MTVA for an amount of EUR 110 million. At the same time, this ownership required the taking up of a loan. I think this borrowing was rational, precisely because the aim was to acquire real estate for MTVA, and now MTVA would be relieved of the burden of this loan if the Parliament accepted the amendment. I would like to point out that MTVA has expanded its services. I would remind everyone that there is a new sports channel and that the M1 service has been renewed. This extended service was accompanied by an increase in costs. At the same time, MTVA has taken a number of steps to rationalise costs. Therefore, more than 30 properties are released in exchange for the debt transfer by MTVA to the State. It is not a one-sided transaction, therefore, but, in addition to the debt transfer, it is a series of rationalisation steps and the transfer to the State of a significant number of real estate holdings. I also think it is important to point out that, at the same time as this step, the legislation in force ensures that no new debt is incurred, since it would be possible to take on new debts only with the government's permission. And with regard to common sense and investigations, it must also be said that yes, there was an investigation on suspicion of infidel treatment, which was closed, but in itself I consider it important to point out that the previous contract, from which MTVA was able to withdraw, was a contract where there was indeed a suspicion of fraudulent treatment. At this point, I have to say that this debt transfer does not entail an increase in the debt or deficit of the State as a whole, as according to the EU methodology, MTVA is part of the State as a whole, so the intra-State transaction - I repeat - does not affect the deficit and debt position of the State as a whole. [[15.00]] Thus, if the Parliament adopts the amendment proposal, the debt of the State as a whole will not increase and the deficit target of 2.4 percent according to the European Union methodology will remain unchanged. As far as the third topic, the "Modern Cities" programme is concerned, honourable Members, I think it is a positive thing that, thanks to the economic performance mentioned, we can talk about what new developments can be made; we can talk about the possibility of developing cities with county rights and their environment within the framework of the "Modern Cities" programme, because these investments are not only in the interests of the city, but also in the interests of the environment, for example, I am thinking of road construction. What exactly is the source used for? I can recommend to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs that we review public government decisions on this subject. I would be happy to send the list of government decisions to the congresswoman, where the tasks that will be financed will be listed in detail. Once again, in addition to public decisions, the government will report in detail on the use of resources in the context of the closing accounts. Dear Parliament, I think that all three amendments are amendments that are in the public interest, and I am thinking here about the source insurance for managing the migrant crisis, the effective protection of the borders of Hungary and the European Union, and I am thinking about maintaining the extended services of the public service media, and I am thinking here about the development of the country as a whole in the framework of the programme "Modern Cities." I therefore warmly recommend to the Honourable Parliament the support of the bill tabled by the Government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-44	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We will decide on the summary amendment in our next decision. Dear Parliament, Please take your seats. Check to see if your card has been placed in the voting machine. The votes will follow. Dear Parliament, Following a series of amendments to Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 T/6326. Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. T/6326/6. T/6326/7 and T/6326/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZM... [[The Foreman of Novak, whoo-hoo! A round of applause from Jobbik. There's grumbles in the room.]] ... the MSZP Group proposed to maintain Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to keep your voice down, we have an important vote coming up. Amendment 2 is proposed by József Tobias and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 101 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on Budgets will accept T/6326/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 4 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the Rules of the House, the President of the National Assembly is T/6326/8. It shall send to the President of the Fiscal Council a single draft budget bill. The Council shall then inform the President of the Parliament of the provisions of Article 25 of the Act. § 3 opinion. If the opinion of the Fiscal Council is received by tomorrow's decision, the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on personal suggestions. The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/7120. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this, the Parliament proposes that Jenő Manninger elects Sándor Hadházy as a member of the Committee, instead of Bence Tuzson, Répássy as Vice-President of the Committee, to replace Bence Tuzson as a member of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal with 152 unanimous votes in favour. Dear Parliament, The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/7121. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this he proposed that the National Assembly elect István Vitányi as a member of the committee instead of Bence Tuzson as a member of the ad hoc committee which designated the members of the Constitutional Court. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 154 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Now, at 3:06 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, a representative of the MSZP, Vice-President of the House, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "The Important National Basics and Forgotten Children." Congressman István Hiller has the floor.
u2015-11-02-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Monday: Hungarian, History, Home Knowledge, Mathematics, Swimming, Swimming, School Teachers. Tuesday: foreign language, mathematics, drawing, natural knowledge, physical education, technique, technique. Wednesday: foreign language, mathematics, history, singing, Hungarian, folk tradition. Thursday: IT, mathematics, Hungarian, ethics, language department, language department. Friday: Hungarian, Hungarian, knowledge of nature, foreign language, physical education, physical education. Dear Secretary of State, Ádám, 5/A student, 11-year-old Hungarian student's weekly schedule looks like this. Three times seven hours, twice and six. Gábor 6/A student, 12-year-old Hungarian boy, according to his schedule, he has seven hours three times a week, twice and six hours. Seven o'clock means seven times forty-five minutes without lunch break, which means you're sitting in the bench from 8:00 to 3:45 in the morning. He's 12. Brigi is a 2-B student: once she has four hours, three times five hours, four hours on Friday, but since she had to file a punch clock, it's actually a five-hour day. He usually sits on the school bench from 8 to 3:45. She's an 8-year-old Hungarian girl. This is what the new National Basics Plan you have created has brought. A parent told me that when his kids get home from school, they just lay there like frogs by the lake. They're tired. The approach that takes shape in the National Basics has resulted in children going home and being so exhausted that they simply don't want to play or talk. The approach of the current NAT is lexical-based, they want the school and teachers to teach everything, but preferably more, in terms of detail, well-educated, militaryly, well-educated, teach us specific knowledge one after another, neck-to-head, and then, when the teaching of a new kind of knowledge becomes necessary, let's say, in IT, we also press it. This approach lacks everything that is modern, although it has no doubt a virtue, especially for historians, who are thus in charge of the 21st century. The 19th century Hungarian reality can be researched by the 19th century. 100th-century Prussian pedagogy live. [[15.10]] Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. This national basic curriculum is unteachable, more precisely: it is largely unnecessary to teach, and significant and radical reduction of the curriculum is required. On this basis, I ask the Minister if you would like the children to still feel like playing after school. Have you heard that our schoolchildren are exhausted, tired? Do you agree that there is a need for a major radical reform of the National Basic Training Plan? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor.
u2015-11-02-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Congressman. Dear House, Obviously, everyone has experiences from their own childhood or from their children's school years when the child comes home tired, but the government also tries to look at the extent of the stress of the children in an international comparison. If you look at the OECD 2014 report, we can see that Hungarian children spend 5303 hours in primary school overall, while the OECD average is 7475 hours. There are obviously different school systems, so all these numbers must be handled with caution, but it is shown in scale that the OECD averages much higher school hours in terms of elementary school years, where students sit for more hours than Adam or other students quoted by you. Therefore, when we touch education, we must obviously look very carefully at one or another part of this complex system. And I think it's also a daily experience for everyone that, even though students are in school five hours a day, six hours a day, seven hours a day, a lot of parents are giving their children a special class. So some of the parents have a need for why their child is so overwhelmed at school, while another part of the child is subject to some additional burden when, if appropriate, he gives them additional hours in the afternoon or even on weekends, and is therefore willing to make additional financial sacrifices. Obviously, it is important to consult parents, engage in dialogue and make decisions before making such a decision. That is why you know, you know, because we have talked about this several times, that we want to start a dialogue with parents about these issues of education - for example, children's stress or the number of elementary schools, or the content of the curriculum, which can be consulted electronically or otherwise with parents - and they want to get to know their views as much as possible, about professional theories or practices carried out in other OECD Member States that can influence our decision on how to scale the curriculum for students; especially in lower school, because I think that every debate - primarily according to the first four or some future theories - can be achieved in the first five years of the year, and how to acquire and teach basic skills. It should be acknowledged that the role of the school has increased over the last five years, since it is involved not only in education but also in education. With everyday physical education or other means, the introduction of ethics, the introduction of Bible doctrine, could even increase the number of hours in school. This may be the case in the five-yearly review of NAT, which will be repeated in 2017 after 2012, should be taken into account, and the thinning of this density may be one of the directions, even in the light of the considerations raised by you. But before we do that, we definitely want to have a dialogue with the parents. The task of NAT is not only to mediate education, but also to strengthen the skills, skills, knowledge, attitudes needed for learning, work, and obviously the awareness of national and social cohesion. And our objective was precisely to ensure equal access for all, because in international comparison, especially in relation to Western Europe, there are great differences in some regions as children are educated. The reason why the NAT has been revised every five years is that we may be able to correct these, but it is also important that we have been able to make a lot of progress in the further training of teachers, which I think will help children. This can certainly be classified among the achievements of the last five years, and it is also that either the financial approach, the independent responsible family farming or the acquisition of usable language skills are much more pronounced than they were years ago. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Thus, we hope that children will also enjoy playing after everyday school. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the Vice President if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-11-02-49	Mr President, I do not accept it, although it is commendable, Mr Secretary of State, as you try to deal with everything here from mass sports to the Rector's Conference, from drug prevention to Hungarian public education, to educators because of your unfortunate ministry. Therefore, a tablet of white chocolate really belongs to you, but this answer, you have to say, is very little in substance. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Does it matter what color the chocolate is?]] Now, while we are discussing the problems of the sweet industry - although I would like to draw your colleagues' attention to the fact that it does not really fall within the remit of the Secretary of State - it should be added that there is a fundamental difference between the hours and the time spent in school. The whole day's school you've introduced is a forced day care center, so please don't compare it to a proven and correct school in the German language area. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That's why I can't accept it. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The vice president didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 47 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Előd Novak, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: "Are they willing to finally withdraw the communist luxury pensions? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr.Csaba Dömötör, Minister of State, acting on behalf of the Minister of the Cabinet Office of Prime Minister Antal Rogán, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-11-02-51	Dear Secretary of State, The past 25 years, especially the Fidesz-KDNP governments, are ashamed that there is still no history of state security, including the discovery of agent lists, the accountability and exclusion of party leaders from public life, and the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions, which is perhaps the most outrageous. Thus, out of our three most important anti-communist demands, this interpellation is now dedicated to this cause by Jobbik. The withdrawal of a few thousand HUF pension allowances for the communist medals and the withdrawal of a few thousand HUF pension allowances for the half-solution, while the attorney asking for a death sentence for Péter Mansfeld, György Mátsik, did not decrease by one forint. And whoever had it reduced: In the case of Béla Biszku and Rezső Raw, we have seen that they will still receive hundreds of thousands of luxury pensions per month only to a minimal extent. On behalf of the government, Bence Rétvári regularly lies - I'm glad he doesn't answer now [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's a compliment from you, Előd.]] - for example, in the National Assembly a few months ago, he said, quote, "This extra benefit for these people, this kind of privilege, has ceased, and from now on they will not receive such a senior pension. Let me get this straight. Mária Wittner and Iván László Fideszes, as well as Tamás Sneider, Levente Murányi, György Szilágyi, Loránt Hegedűs and myself, as better representatives, submitted in 2012 our proposal amending the pension law, which was accepted by the National Assembly, and on this basis we had to withdraw pension allowances for communist awards. At the time, I was informed by the Directorate-General for Pension Insurance that about 1200 persons under subjective or widow's rights would receive a total of HUF 200 million a year, for example, as a result of the Order of Red Star Medals or the participation in armed combats in partisans and 17 other similar awards. Unfortunately, despite our withdrawal law, 90 percent of them still receive it, as Minister Tibor Navracsics, who is responsible for the implementation, first completely sabotaged the law, until the deadline, did not stop the pension bonus for the communist medals, and then, to my repeated request, the lawlessness was corrected by the amendment of the law: the deadline was pushed out, i.e. the government parties took the time, as in the case of Béla Biszku's accountability. Finally, the government found 90 percent of the pension allowances for the Socialist Country of Merit and similar medals worthy of paying them 25 years after the alleged change of regime, i.e. today, but all this is just foam on the cake. The real problem is that what we call communist luxuries is not paid after the awards, but because in the previous system they received a prominent wage as party leaders, so Béla Biszku and his thousands of associates can now receive a special basic pension even without a bonus. The revision of their award would require the adoption of the bill already submitted by Jobbik in July 2010, which was voted out on numerous occasions by the Parliament with the cooperation of MSZP and Fidesz, to the greatest pleasure of Béla Biszku. [[15.20]] Are you finally willing to accept this in order to withdraw communist luxury pensions, or are you on the side of the leaders of the communist authoritarian regime in this area? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-02-53	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In your interpellation, you are interested in what the government is doing to finalize communism. Even though we consider it important that your party president recently praised KGST in a TV interview with the European Union. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Even though the President of Jobbik considers these proposals important, he considers people who openly proclaim national Bolshevism to be his international mentor. [[Noise in the ranks of Fidesz. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] The civilian government that took office in 2010 has taken a number of measures to finally settle the debt related to communist crimes. Allow me to discuss three measures, including the issue of pensions mentioned by you. The first important duty is to explore the past. As you know, the National Remembrance Committee has started its work in the last term, and it is regrettable that Jobbik has not supported this. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Wow!]] The task of this committee is to identify non-exaggeration crimes, the functioning of the communist regime and the role of persons operating it. It is a significant step forward that former observers now have easier access to state security data about them, and if they want to, they can make it easier for them to disclose them. This also means that the current rules are no longer protecting ex-agents, but protecting the victims. The second important duty is to compensate the victims of communism. Under the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, benefits for political rehabilitation and national settlements have been frozen. From 2013 onwards, the government significantly increased these. With this step, we helped 88,000 victims of communism. The third important duty is to withdraw the extra benefits of Communist leaders, which include the pension allowances you have mentioned. It was the current government that, paying off an old debt, decided to withdraw the pension bonus from those who were not worthy of it, thus withdrawing it from those who, after 45, destroyed the democratic arrangement, who were involved in the fight for freedom in 56. There is no pension substitute for those who worked for the Communist secret services, or who were state and party leaders. In this way, along with many others, Béla Biszku will no longer receive any extra benefits. The government continues to strive to meet these obligations - the discovery of the past, the compensation of victims and the withdrawal of extra benefits. Honourable Congressman, Listening to his interpellation, it seems to me that you want to settle past affairs and consider it important to hold him accountable. We encourage him to act with similar stamina and thoroughness in Béla Kovács' scandal. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Especially because your party president said in a weekend interview that he heard things that were unsettling. So I ask you to share your information with the public, espionage and anti-national actions, because they belong not only in 1956, but also in 2015 in the wasteland of history. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Bravo!]]
u2015-11-02-54	Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-55	This bullshit is unacceptable. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I didn't ask you about setting up a National Remembrance Committee to stall. I asked you about passing on responsibility. I don't even know how Gábor Vona's various statements come here. By the way, for his anti-communism, it's enough that it's due to his decision that this interpellation could now be spoken here, and we can talk about the matter of communist luxury pensions. In the case of Béla Kovács, you should put your papers on the table, if any. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We're looking for as clear evidence as the WikiLeaksen leaked how you serve American interests by going to the embassy for a report. Unfortunately, however, we could not hear about it, and I think that on the 4th of November you will not be able to commemorate the death of Péter Mansfeld, for example, as long as the prosecutor, György Mátsik, has received his hundreds of thousands of luxurious pensions like Béla Biszku. Even though you claim that you do not receive extra benefits, legally not extra, the hundreds of thousands of forints you refuse to withdraw are legally only due; the inclusion of a better proposal transposing the existing Polish legislation into the Hungarian legal system [[Interviews from Fidesz: Time!]] It would be necessary at last. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] We will ask for Parliament's support for this in the near future. Don't wait for Jobbik to get on the government with this. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking if you'll accept it. Please vote now. [[Vote. A statement from the KDNP: His wife did not clap... Dora Dúró: It is not true! I applauded! You should be ashamed of yourselves.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes to 109, 23 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Prime Minister's Office:. Why does the government continue to support the tailor-made City Park construction plan? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Prime Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation on behalf of Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. It's up to Congresswoman.
u2015-11-02-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Last week it was published that the government continued to support the installation of the City Park by ten billion; a project whose budget grew from 150 billion to 200 billion forints in less than six months. The two most damaging elements of the Liget Budapest project, the new National Gallery and the House of Hungarian Music, remain on the agenda. LMP is convinced that the project has neither economic nor professional basis, but would seriously damage one of the few green areas in downtown [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's not true!]] The oldest public park in Europe. That's why there are professional and residential protests. In a short time, civilians gathered 20,000 protest signatures. The affected municipalities are also opposed, even by the Fidesz leaders, not by accident, to offer alternative locations in Terézváros or the body of representatives of Józsefváros. This project will not substantially increase the number of foreign tourists, which is not a big problem if we want to protect the park. The museums planned together do not have a collection that would attract plus two million visitors a year, which is mentioned in the KPMG study. Museum district, by the way, is already in Budapest. The Museum of Fine Arts, the Kunsthalle, the Museum of Agriculture, the Museum of Transport is one end point, while the Castle itself is the Castle with the National Gallery and other museums, including the Chain Bridge, Andrássy Road, the Basilica and numerous sights of the area, to which a famous architect said: Budapest is the museum itself. It is a false argument that the green surface is growing, as the park's built-in would change from 5.5 percent to 7 percent. In the beginning, the wrong argument is that the destruction of 300-500 trees and thousands of square meters of park would be acceptable if it was replaced. The replacement is an illusion: the replacement of a 50-year-old tree takes just 50 years. The project will not be economically recovered either, since it is calculated with data that is not supported by the facts. All they had left was that there were buildings that they hated when they were planning, and then how much they loved me, like the Eiffel Tower. Don't build on that. There are a lot of bad examples. The Stalin statue at the time, the parking garage in Szervita tér, the old building of the KÖKI, the former spinach house, all show that violence, voluntarism and lack of competence can produce damage and create value less. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State to step aside from supporting the harmful elements of the project and to reorganize it in the interests of the people of Budapest and of all Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-02-58	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If this had been the case for the development of the city a hundred years ago, then there would be no city leaders and national leaders, or Heroes' Square, neither would there be a Museum of Fine Arts, nor would there be a Kunsthalle in Hungary. These have recovered, like the castle of Vajdahunyad, and all the pride of Hungary. And the specialty of Városliget, as opposed to many other public parks in many other cities, is that there is never only the green function - recreation, spending leisure time with sports, sunbathing, picnics or anything else - but there is always the cultural function next to it. Some also go out for boat rides and ice skating, but there are museums next to them, the Castle of Vajdahunyad, the Museum of Transport, and how many other cultural functions have been there since the creation of the City Park and have served the people of Budapest for a hundred years. [[15.30]] We want to maintain this dual function, not destroy what our ancestors built, but finish the work they started a long time ago. And even though the congresswoman says that the proportion of green surfaces will decrease 100 times twice, 10,000 times, you know very well that the proportion of green surfaces will increase from 60 percent to 65 percent in the City Park. [[Erzsébet Schmuck is shaking her head. Interviews from Fidesz: That's right!]] Because at the moment nearly one third of it is concreteized, bitumen and asphalt are in the City Park, and they are finally cracked, they will breathe much better throughout the City Park, there will be much more green surface, where you can sit comfortably, or you can go out to play football, Frisbee or anything else. That is why I believe that those who want more green spaces in Budapest have only one option: that they support the Liget Budapest program. This is highly beneficial from an urban point of view, from a tourist point of view, and has a great deal of advantage in terms of transport development, and also in the use of renewable energies, which I think is important for LMP, can be essential. Is this going to pay off economically or not? Madam Member, you have also mentioned that not only did the government calculate this in itself, but you have entrusted an independent advisory firm, KPMG. It seems to you that their word is neither real nor that of the government nor that of the international consulting firm - I don't know who they're taking their own data from. In addition, you know that the application for landscape and garden design will be launched soon, so we will soon see what the new green area will be like in Városliget, but until then, this year Városliget Zrt will spend 400 million forints. To develop the public areas of the City Park. It is not real what you said about the attitude of the municipalities, the VI. and VII. district government all supported the implementation of the Liget Budapest programme. The people who signed that petition, what did they sign? It means to protect and improve the natural environment. The project they asked for, what they demanded, is fully in line with this, and the development plan will do so. If this was their intention to improve the quality of public space, to improve the quality of the green surface, then all the signatories' requests have been met by the government, and we will give a more lively, enjoyable City Park. The way the profession stands behind us, you said it was poor quality. Do you know how many people started in the design contest, Congresswoman? 480, and this includes a dozen of the world's best architects. Thousands of architects, engineers, landscape architects and technicians worked on [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] that even at the idea contest, for which 40 works of art were also received, and for the design contest itself, 480, so that they could come to the highest possible level. When Budapest boasted that the world's largest architecture offices competed to achieve their most well-known works (Dr. Péter Hoppál: That's right!) And when we could boast that at the autumn Paris fashion show, the house of Hungarian music, which you just pulled out with a pen stroke, was one of the exhibited and presented prides of the architect's office? And the jury was attended not only by the Academy of Arts, but also by the Association of Builders and the Chamber of Architects, by countless highly respected scientists and artists, so I think that would deserve recognition. I believe that since the Millennium Buildings, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This kind of development on this part of town was not on this scale (The President bells.) , and this can make Budapest attractive and unique. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right! Intercom from Fidesz: Bravo! A round of applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Intervention from opposition representatives: Long live Rakosi!]]
u2015-11-02-60	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-61	The answer is clearly no, I can't accept it. [[Moors and interrogations from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Secretary of State, however, thousands of architects have stated that they refuse to enter the tender. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Oh, no!]] because he doesn't think the construction of the museum district is right and right. By the way, Mr. Secretary, you're slipping brilliantly. I was there at the committee meeting when the representative of the local NGO handed over the 20,000 protests, in which local residents and residents of Budapest declared that they did not want these new buildings. That's where the civilian congressman said they didn't want it, and a few seconds later, the Commissioner of the Government interpreted it as saying that I understood it as 20,000 signatories in support of the project. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the ruling parties.]] So not 30 seconds before, and then it was interpreted as yes. The project is limping at many points, by the way. KPMG's study, which calculated another HUF 150 billion [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In ten years, he would have asked for an extra two million visits, which in itself (The President rang.) Big trouble...
u2015-11-02-62	Thank you...
u2015-11-02-63	The project is not acceptable.
u2015-11-02-64	... Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 29 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Richárd Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Is the Hungarian Strategy Good? It's an address. Congressman Richard Hörcsik has the floor.
u2015-11-02-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, It is clear that the migrant crisis is a major burden on Europe, because some Member States cannot or do not want to solve the problem. That is why the Sunday summit in Brussels, attended by the leaders of the countries affected by migration, was in the spirit of cooperation. Three important things were discussed at the meeting: (1) the provision of asylum for refugees before winter, (2) the management of the human current and, finally, the control of borders. The leaders of the Member States concerned adopted a 17-point action plan to address the crisis, including the agreement to increase the country's accommodation capacity in Greece and to increase the number of refugees' capacity in the Western Balkans to 100,000, of which Greece will increase the number of seats to 30,000 by the end of the year, the Greek, Macedonian and Serb border control were discussed. Our country was also represented at the summit, despite the fact that Hungary is no longer affected by the Western Balkans migration route, yet Hungary will provide all technical assistance to the Member States concerned and will, of course, appoint a liaison to take action on immigration. Dear Secretary of State, At this summit, too, it has been proven that the Member States recognise the success of Hungary's migrant policy and that there is no basis for the international press statement to accuse Hungary. This is also supported by the successful Hungarian participation at the European People's Party Congress in Madrid: in the competition for the position of Vice-President, Kinga Gál, Fidesz's candidate, was rated by former ministers, prime ministers and European Commissioners. By the way, Kinga Gál voted for her in the 12 candidates' competition with 373 members of the 600 delegates of the 57 member parties in the prestigious 7th place. I believe that this contradicts the rumors that Fidesz would be excluded from the European People's Party. The success of the Fidesz candidate is also a recognition of the results of the Hungarian government, such as the economy and job creation, and a confirmation of the Hungarian government's responsible response to the migration crisis. I believe that already in Brussels, more and more people see that Hungarian reforms are working. Dear Secretary of State, I ask: does the European Union finally recognise the effectiveness of the Hungarian government's policy? How will this new position of the People's Party affect the government's foreign policy? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary László Szabó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-02-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me, on behalf of the Government, to congratulate Kinga Gál for winning the position of Vice-President of the European People's Party. This is, of course, primarily because of Kinga Gál, who has been a member of the European Parliament since 2004, and even last year he was elected Member of the European Parliament Magazine in the category of fundamental freedoms. We must be proud of the fact that Hungarian politicians achieve such successes, and this will, of course, contribute to our ability to represent Hungarian interests even more effectively in the European Parliament. It is also important to see that this will not fundamentally affect our foreign policy, but it will definitely strengthen it. In order to finally acknowledge the effectiveness of the Hungarian government's policy, there is no doubt that more and more people praise Hungary at our bilateral meetings and in a multilateral environment, and it is interesting to see how criticisms from a few months ago turn into actions at some Member State level. It is clear that many things that the Hungarian government has been saying since the beginning of the year, these interventions are now being introduced by more and more countries, although things are still not called by their names in many countries, as we saw the other day, as they say instead of the fence, they are waiting for migrants with two-winged open doors. So there are still problems and difficulties, but the countries of the European Union are going to deal with this slowly. [[15.40]] I think that the open gates have been announced by some very serious EU Member States, and we are now regretting these countries, and we are seeing more and more measures that are trying to back off from this, of course, very carefully, because internal political attention is not failing either. The fact that the mandatory allocation of asylum seekers' quotas remains a priority for many European party leaders remains a cause for concern. We trust that this kind of invitation will be increasingly rejected by the European Union and will increasingly show that we provide a home for genuine asylum seekers, but not for economic asylum seekers. By the way, according to the statistics in Hungary, only 37 percent of those who applied for asylum claimed to be in Syria, 63 percent of them came from further away. This also shows that we cannot find a solution without trying to work together with the countries concerned and that we are really taking the problem at its root and proposing solutions. Fortunately, the good news is that although decisions in the Council have been made in a positive direction, which are pointing in the right direction, but we have only seen half-solutions yet, genuine, rooted and causal therapy has not yet been invented by the European Union. Hungary has previously been one of the most affected countries, but thanks to government measures, it is now only an observer of the crisis. However, we cannot sit back, it is quite clear that both the Hungarian nation and Hungary in general must be involved in the solution, in a lasting solution to the crisis. The increasing number of people listening to us and the increasing number of people supporting the interventions that we have implemented and proposed are certainly good news, and we also want the coming years not to be about the fight against illegal migration. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-02-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-02-69	Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, with regard to migration in the European Union, it appears that double standards and hypocritical political behaviour have become characteristic. It seems that the leaders of some Member States are still unaware of the dangers of this kind of procrastination, inability to act, to the continent itself. On behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, we would therefore like to thank Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the government for having been consistent with his position all along, even if some people did not like it in the European Union, but represented what Hungarian citizens wanted to protect Hungary's borders, thus setting an example not only for Central Europe but also for Europe as a whole, how this problem should be solved. I accept your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-02-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with a title on a government decision regarding the International Anti-Crab Day. It's up to Congressman.
u2015-11-02-71	I'll wait for Mr. Secretary to take his place, I think that's fair. And Mr State Secretary, who I welcome with respect and thank the President for the floor, will certainly accept from me that it is not a derogation from the question of interpellation, if, in some sentences, we think with compassion at the beginning of my interpellation of all those who have suffered from cancers, have healed or, unfortunately, have not been able to cope with this disease. And, of course, we express our thanks to the healers who sometimes perform beyond their strength, either by bed or by other means, to help the patients heal or to make the disease bearable. I also asked my colleagues for the possibility of interpellation because I would like to ask about the results or inefficiencies of a specific government measure, but I would also like to recall the circumstances in which this government measure was taken. We are talking about cancers, and it is worth recalling that in 2010, 78,000 new patients were registered, and not only this, but especially the low number of healings are alarming, as 32,000 ended with death. Women have breast and lung cancer, and men have lung, colon and prostate cancer. The profession says that from prevention to hospice, we should use extensive and accessible tools, organised sick roads, and, not least, what the International Anti-Crab Union says is that it would be advisable to disperse doubts about the disease, while at the same time helping early detection - early detection - to help. The Ministry prescribed a two-week time interval for those who are sent with cancer for control tests, CT scans, MRIs, imaging. There was a lot of doubt about these decisions, especially in terms of the method of financing, and whether if the capacities were insufficient so far, everyone would be able to reach the investigation. But the most important question, however, is whether we can get to therapy and especially to recovery. That's why I'm asking you, how many of these patients have been diagnosed with cancer during the two-week period. What number was that for the past period? How did the financing of these investigations develop? But most of all, the number of people who went there after a positive finding to heal, whether by doing so at a healthcare provider or in a hospital. I look forward to your answers, Mr. Secretary, and thank you very much for your opportunity.
u2015-11-02-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In a family and friendly environment with a similar cancer, a cancer problem, I think everyone knows how important this is and how important it is to have timely recognition in every family. One of the tasks of the state is precisely to ensure that Hungarians can live in health as long as possible, and that among the first causes of death there has been cancer for a very long time, so I think it is important to talk about this at all times and to take new measures to reduce these risks. Obviously, we need a very complex approach here. What you have listed, Mr President, may I add a few more phases, as our health strategy requires that prevention be started, obviously followed by screenings, followed by the early diagnosis mentioned by the Member, followed by protocol-based treatments, post-care or, where appropriate, hospice supply. This is the complex approach that we take to this issue. If you look at our healthy Hungary 2014-2020 strategy, one of the five main priorities is to reduce the risk of cancer. Obviously, diagnostics, various imaging procedures - CTs, MRIs - have the most prominent role here, so that we can recognise the onset of the disease as soon as possible, and patients have access to the necessary diagnostic tests as soon as possible. Obviously, it was also important, when introducing this 14-day rule, to make the most of the available capacity that can be used, since it is only possible to carry out a diagnostic examination somewhere within 14 days of the applicant's exhibition - in a hospital, in a healthcare provider - that, on the one hand, if we expand the capacities and, on the other hand, better divide the patients, we better divide the tests across the country. For this reason, we have made it mandatory for providers to perform the study within 14 days of the date of issue of the referral, in the case of clinical suspicion of malignant cancer in patients in their care areas. In the event that a hospital cannot comply with this, it must nevertheless state the earliest time it can do so, but if there is another non-territorial healthcare provider that can carry out these tests on its own, it can take over and without affecting its TV, with a quasi-tv framework, without a power limit, can carry out these further tests. This will enable us to make better use of free capacity in diagnostics. [[15.50]] The fee for a CT-MRI study carried out in accordance with previous practice is always financed by OEP under the general rules for healthcare providers. If, based on the CT-MRI scan performed within 14 days, the malignant cancer is confirmed, the CT-MRI healthcare provider may also provide an additional code for reporting its performance, which will be cleared to him free of TV. As regards the specific data to which the Member has asked. Since the new regulation applied from June 2015, on the basis of the four-month data available during this period, the service providers have reported 1628, 300 cases in MRI, broken down monthly, which means 400 cases/month in CT and 75 cases/month in MR. For these cases, we paid HUF 28.9 million and nearly HUF 30 million as additional funding. This additional funding was received by the service providers concerned during these four months. If you look at these numbers, it's on an annual basis. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 6,000 cases, approximately 86 million forints, and 54 percent of cancer-related interventions occurred inpatient care based on data so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-02-74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-02-75	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I do not want to appreciate what you have to say, but let me tell you that your first three minutes were rather uninteresting, since it seemed to be a stuffing text, not a question. However, there was a positive point, let me mention this: you admitted that you have a valid health document, the Healthy Hungary 2014-2020. This is not how we know it, but this is where we will look for the foundations of your health policy. I'll tell you, we'll be looking for him with very little success, if that's what this is about. Thank you for the data. I don't know what to relate to, but I asked you to indicate how many people were included in these tests in the two weeks and according to the older procedures. And for one reason in particular, I do not accept the answer, Mr Secretary, because it did not answer the question of how many people were cured after the positive and how many have been cured in the meantime. So it's not about the diagnosis, it's about whether the patient is involved in the healing process. That's why my answer is no, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-02-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 31 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, is this what you call economic policy? It's an address. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2015-11-02-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The new report by the European Union Statistical Office, which shows that 31.1 percent of the Hungarian population, i.e. roughly one third, are poor, has recently come to light. Compared to 2008, the share of the poor in Hungary, despite all government propaganda, would not have decreased, but also increased by 3 percent. At EU level, Poland, the Czech Republic and Romania have achieved the greatest reduction in the fight against poverty. This is where the number of poor people has fallen most. So it is not that it corresponds to some regional trend, that people in Hungary are poor. The situation is improving in other countries, and unfortunately we cannot say the same in Hungary. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] With regard to people facing severe material deprivation, Hungary occupies the third worst position in the whole European Union according to the statistical office of the European Union. How did the Orbán government deal with poverty in quotes? He introduced the single-key tax, which gave more than HUF 500 billion tax relief to 10 percent of the highest income, while increasing the tax rate for poor people. The poor have increased their effective tax burden. How else did the Orbán government fight? He had three thousand billion forints of private pension funds in his hands, and the Orbán government quickly lived up to it in terms of the financial freedom struggle: partly for debt reduction and partly for current budget expenditure, so the money was gone. They introduced - also in quotes - the world's highest VAT to help the poor; 27 percent VAT rates are not paid anywhere except in Hungary. The country is poor, young people are emigration from Hungary. In the meantime, we can see that they are primarily becoming billionaires in the large business community in the immediate environment of Viktor Orbán. It is also important to see that the austerity economic policy that the Orbán government started with the Széll Kálmán plan, and then, through so many steps, with tax increases, has failed spectacularly. Young people are fleeing the country, and even according to the statistical office of the European Union, the population is not getting rich, but is getting poorer in Hungary, and the country is becoming more and more unlivable. I ask you: when does the government realize that the economic policy based on austerity has failed and that something must be done to combat poverty in Hungary? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-78	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-11-02-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to start by firstly fixing the situation in 2010 as to the state of the country's economic policy. [[Dr. István Józsa: He was on a growing course!]] We could not talk about economic growth, because we talked about a reduction in economic growth; unemployment has steadily increased in Hungary, with a total of 3.7 million people working. Real incomes decreased; in 2009 the 13th month wage was taken away from the Socialists and the 13th month pension. [[Dr. István Józsa: Why didn't you give it back?]] They got 2 million people involved in foreign exchange loans without warning them of their risks. [[Dr. István Józsa: 2001, Orbán...]] In Europe, the Hungarian people paid the highest prices. Moreover, it was macroeconomicly negative that Hungary was in an excessive deficit procedure, and we know that the use of EU funds did not reach its goal, and that it was ineffective. In the last five years, the Fidesz government has responded effectively and effectively to each of them. The main framework and condition of poverty is that there should be economic performance in the country, and that we can fight poverty eradication if there is economic performance, income, distributed income, there is money for people, families and, of course, for the state. [[Dr. István Józsa's intervention.]] We can fight poverty properly if we can bring Hungary out of the deficit procedure and regain the confidence of investors - we managed to do so in 2013 - if we save millions of people in foreign exchange loans. I think that the struggle over recent years has been about this, among other things, and I think that we have effectively fought against high overhead costs, and today people are saving 300 billion forints by reducing overhead costs in several steps. But most importantly, maybe it's increased employment. Today, compared to the 2010 change of government, there are an extra 500 thousand people working in Hungary, with a loss of 6.4 percent in unemployment. [[Nándor Gúr: Yes, in Vienna, Munich...]] The most effective weapon against poverty is to give people jobs. Today more than 4 million 200,000 people have regular incomes in Hungary. But it is also important how the government distributes the income collected by the state on a social basis. I also believe that there are serious results in this, as we can regularly increase family tax incentives, thus improving the income situation of families raising children. We can also say that today 700,000 students, children, receive free textbooks, 63 percent of schoolchildren, and the number of free dining rooms in kindergarten and nursery has increased several times. Perhaps this is why consumption has been increasing in Hungary over the past two years, because there is more to the people and more to the retail sector. I think that if it is slow and step by step, but the standard of living is increasing, and poverty is also decreasing in Hungary. By denying the results of Hungary, the results of the Hungarian people, Jobbik will actually do nothing. It's not a change of government policy, it's a lie policy that Jobbik has chosen for you. Well, good luck with that, gentlemen. Thank you. (György Balla: That's right! - A round of applause from the governing parties benches. [[16.00]]
u2015-11-02-80	I will ask Mr János Volner if he will accept the answer.
u2015-11-02-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I cannot accept the answer. The Secretary of State tells the Parliament how to fight poverty in Hungary, but instead the facts tell us, Mr State Secretary, that you have not only been able to fight poverty, but have increased the share of poor people in Hungary by 3 percent. These are the statistical data of the European Union. It is also important to see that the Orbán government is having the same continuous success propaganda as János Kóka, Minister of SZDSZ, when he was still in the socialist coalition, said that the Hungarian cougar is jumping, the Hungarian economy and the rest are raging. Obviously, this career, Mr. Secretary of State, is the end of your responsibilities. In 2018, the country will have to choose between whether everything will continue as it has been before, whether the close billionaires of Fidesz will continue to grow, while the country's population will become poorer, or whether the country will choose a better path for itself. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-82	The congressman did not accept the answer, so I ask the Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 111 votes in favour, 34 against and 2 abstentions, the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy with the title "Cooperation with Local Governments." It is for Congressman István Hollik.
u2015-11-02-83	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Over the past few years, the government has assured the municipalities on several occasions that it intends to cooperate with them, and it is important for it to know what is happening in a settlement, whether it is the smallest small settlement, a county town or the capital city. The majority of municipalities were affected by the debt consolidation over the past four years, with a government debt of some HUF 1368 billion from the municipalities concerned between the end of 2011 and May 2014. Following consolidation, it is important that the municipalities are able to stand on stable feet and not have to finance the operation of the municipalities on credit. To this end, back in 2013, the government tightened the possibilities for lending to municipalities. This measure avoids that our villages and cities are once again caught up in a debt trap such as the one they are unfortunately involved in under the governance of the MSZP. In the future, it is important that the counties and their settlements become part of programmes that are able to ensure their competitiveness and survival in the long term. In order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to strengthen local economic operators and to involve local workers. Without the effective work of the municipalities, we cannot talk about developing Hungary. In order for the government to be able to cooperate well with the settlements, dialogue with the counties and settlements is absolutely necessary, as they are the best at seeing when, what and in what form the region needs. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: what developments will the county and municipal authorities face in the future, and what is the cooperation between the municipalities and the government? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-84	I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Rákossy.
u2015-11-02-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the course of government work, it is indeed a priority that the counties and municipalities become involved in programmes that are able to ensure their competitiveness in the long term and, as you have said, to stay on their feet and promote their economic growth. As you know, Hungary's Government has decided to spend 60 percent of the EU's HUF 12 000 billion funding coming into Hungary by 2020 directly on economic development, increasing the country's competitiveness and increasing employment. An integral part of this is the operational programme for territorial and urban development - TOP - and the competitive Central Hungary operational programme, which essentially aims at local economic development through municipal investments, including the development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the expansion of employment. The TOP funds amount to more than HUF 1230 billion by 2020, the target area of which is Hungary's territory outside Budapest and Pest County. VEKOP, the competitive Central Hungary operational programme, combines regional and sectoral interventions with a budget of 288 billion in the areas of Budapest and Pest county, and supports this region with this amount. In order to enable the use of EU funds to respond to regional and local needs, the Ministry of National Economy has been working closely with the counties and cities with county rights since spring 2012, which are actively involved not only in the planning of operational programmes but also in the implementation phase. In order to further deepen the partnership, a strategic cooperation agreement was reached on 26 October 2015 between the Ministry of National Economy and the County City Association and the National Association of County Local Governments. The aim of the agreement with local government associations is to keep the dialogue between the government, counties and county-righted cities as effective as possible in the implementation of development programmes, focusing on practical tasks and their solutions. The government has set a budget for each county and county-righted city for which their local economic development and job creation programmes could be planned and implemented. Under the TOP, the counties planned their development programmes for a total of HUF 799 billion, while the county-righted cities planned their development programmes for another HUF 387 billion. Under TOP and VEKOP, both the planning and implementation processes are decentralised, so the capital city, the 19 counties and the 23 county town can receive grants on the basis of their integrated territorial programmes. The amount will be used primarily for the development of business infrastructure, local tourist attractions, transport development, crèches, kindergartens, primary health care and basic social services, economic regeneration and local employment expansion programmes, such as training and wage support for 65 thousand disadvantaged workers, the renovation and modernisation of more than 480 kilometres of roads over the coming years. The regional operational programmes, TOP and VEKOP, support investments by local regional actors in a budget of more than HUF 1518 billion, and in the framework of this year, we will launch a bid of more than HUF 800 billion from the framework in 2015. In addition to local development, EU aid will thus make a significant contribution to improving the business environment of local businesses and increasing the competitiveness of counties and cities with county rights. Honourable Congressman, I confirm that the Government of Hungary remains committed to maintaining this partnership and cooperates closely with both the counties and the County City Association and with these settlements. Thank you for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-86	I will ask Congressman István Hollik if he will accept the answer.
u2015-11-02-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The municipal debt settlement and the development measures mentioned by you show that the Fidesz-KDNP government is committed to cooperating with the municipalities, but, more importantly, to the development of Hungarian settlements. The development programmes you have just mentioned here, I think, are necessary for all Hungarians to feel that they are such a XXI. It lives in a country of the century, where both the state and the local authorities work to improve the quality of life of people. Therefore, thank you very much, I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Forebod Novak: Is the rejoinder also in paper? Who wrote this?]]
u2015-11-02-88	Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: - Would Fidesz spend the money for Hungarian families elsewhere? It's an address. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] On behalf of Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, János Fónagy, State Secretary will respond to the interpellation. I give the floor to the congresswoman. [[16.10]]
u2015-11-02-89	Thank you, Mr President, and Fidesz-KDNP for the spontaneous welcome that they have received my latest speech. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] I trust that they will be so positive in the response, because I think that it will be in the interests of Hungarian families that cannot escape the attention of either of us here in the Hungarian Parliament. Because the heat season is beginning, and many families in this country are anxious about how they're going to heat it up. [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true!]] his house, his apartment, his room, the situation is tragic. The average Hungarian family spends about twice as much on heating as, let's say, Austrian families, and it's not because it's twice as hot here as in Austria, it's even colder, but because the Hungarian houses are not insulated, they don't have the windows suitable for Hungarian families, they don't have the right insulation. Now, the fact is that you know that the very simple obstacle to major modernisation is that Hungarian families have no money for it, which is why they were looking forward to what you promised the Hungarian families. Because what did the Fidesz-KDNP promise? They promised that there would be HUF 150 billion, and these Hungarian households and families will receive 90 billion out of this 150 billion as non-refundable grants. What happened to that? János Lázár stood in front of the cameras and said that there was no money because the EU wouldn't let him, and then he said a few more things about professional considerations and other confusing things. Now let's see what the fact is, because the facts speak. First of all, it was the Orbán Cabinet that adopted it at the beginning of the year and even had Brussels adopt the COHEP programme with a HUF 90 billion in non-refundable energy efficiency support. This was then promised to the Hungarian families. Secondly, in August this year the announcement was published on kormany.hu - yesterday it was still up, I wonder if it will be taken off now - that next spring the application for the renovation of unconventional family houses will be launched, with a grant of HUF 150 billion to renew up to 3 million such houses by 2020. Forty percent of the renovation costs will be non-refundable EU funding, with a share of 45 percent. Thirdly, the Commission spokesperson confirmed that there is no obstacle on the part of Brussels for the Hungarian families to receive this money. There is a need to create foundations, and EU funds - possibly accompanied by state resources and quota revenue - can go to Hungarian families to replace windows, upgrade their houses, not heat the Hungarian streets with Russian gas. Fourthly, there are several Hungarian MEPs from Hungary who asked the European Commission whether such constructions work in European Union countries. Yes, they work, and there are several places in the European Union where such programmes take place. Dear Parliament, Dear Government, Stop lying to me! We would like to know where they want to put the money promised to the Hungarian families. [[Rushing and murmuring in the pro-government benches. Interviews from Fidesz: Sit! Sit down.]] We would like to know why Hungarian families cannot receive this non-refundable support.
u2015-11-02-90	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-11-02-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, Four minutes doesn't give me enough time to explain the difference between determination and arrogance. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Wind Bernadett: That wasn't the question! That's not the answer to my question!]] So allow me to inform the House and the public in this country that the government has not abandoned and is not abandoning the families. The government has been committed to reducing family spending as much as possible. This goal was served and served by the reduction of the rent, which left HUF 373 billion in the pocket between 1 January 2013 and the end of December 2014. This 373 billion, which was added to another hundred billion by 2015, is not long-named statistics by foreign organizations, this HUF 373 billion is effective in knocking, leaving money in pocket. The impact of this is also shown by the reduction of household utility backlogs from 2012 to 2015 by 30 percent, from 95 billion to around 68 billion, so you can feel this government's intention in the capacity of Hungarian families to bear the burden. The program "Home Gay" was launched and continued with an anti-reciprocating purpose, with over 85 thousand households improving their energy efficiency using 15 billion dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, It has been said several times, let me also say here that the regulation setting out the framework for EU aid is clear: a natural person can only be a beneficiary for the resources of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. Energy efficiency modernisation from these funds cannot be financed for private individuals. The government has not, by the way, financed it from an EU fund, but from the quota revenue also mentioned by the congresswoman, as well as from domestic sources. The government is determined to ensure that these financial resources are in the best interests of as many people as possible, as many families as possible. We can achieve this goal in two ways: one of them is that we continue to support house owners in the renovation of the property, mainly with reimbursable resources, the interest burden of which is provided by the government for some HUF 100 billion. The second is to use these resources for Community purposes, for Community facilities, educational, cultural and other facilities from which society as a whole will benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, Within the framework of the operational programme for economic development and innovation, these programmes will be implemented and implemented by the government and will be made public as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-02-92	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2015-11-02-93	Dear Parliament, I cannot accept the response of the ruling parties. By the way, if I wanted to learn arrogance, I'd only do it from Fidesz, because they're bigger masters of this profession than you. Not in this country. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz. György Balla: Grand Master of Revenge!]] Unfortunately, Mr Secretary of State, the four minutes were not enough to answer my question. I asked where they'd put the 90 billion forints. You didn't tell me. This HUF 90 billion was promised as a non-refundable grant to Hungarian families. It wasn't LMP's promise, by the way, that we would give a lot more, Fidesz-KDNP promised. You're gonna take that money again. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] It is said that this construction does not work very well in the EU. But, gentlemen and ladies, where is the freedom fight? Why don't you stand up for the Hungarian families at a time like this? Create the funds, put the money in and give it to the Hungarian families! Where is there some creativity, where is there some constructive cooperation with the European Union and the Hungarian families? Where's this 90 billion forint gonna go? Which oligarch will it disappear in their pockets?
u2015-11-02-94	The congresswoman did not accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 108 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstention, Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How does the National Talent Program help the future of talented young people? It's an address. Congressman Bánki Erik has the floor.
u2015-11-02-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The country in which young people find their calculations and have a promising vision has a future. The youth in this country who sees that the energy he has invested in learning, having children, or working, will sooner or later return. Every young Hungarian citizen also expects, by the way, that in these initiatives the Hungarian State, the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament should also be in favour. Recently, a civil youth organization, Fidelitas, came forward with a program [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. Interviews from Jobbik: Don't make me laugh! Demercation from opposition parties.]] which has put concrete suggestions on the table. It is important that we pay attention to such initiatives, and that we also have to show Hungarian young people that they are important to us. [[16.20]] In the spirit of these thoughts, important measures have already been taken over the past period, which should be remembered. From 1 July 2015, families can be asked for a home-building discount, which will help young couples and families to get housing more widely than ever. Among the wide range of family support tools, students or graduates aim at young people as a priority, helping them to avoid a lack of financial resources in the way of childbearing. From 1 January 2013, the Job Protection Action Plan was put in place to reduce employers' labour costs for the most vulnerable groups of workers, thereby helping to keep jobs and increase employment. With the job protection action plan, in 2014 we supported the employment of more than 150,000 young people under the age of 25 with contributions. The Youth Guarantee is a comprehensive system aimed at reducing youth unemployment and improving the lives of young people. During the first phase of the multi-stage programme here, mainly young people under the age of 25 registered as job seekers for at least six months will receive help. The National Talent Programme was adopted by the Parliament in 2008 with a five-party consensus. Between 2009 and 2014, 6139 projects have received funding, amounting to nearly HUF 7 billion. I think we think it is worth continuing this program and paying attention to those young talents who have the determination, the plans for perseverance and the achievement of their goals. In view of the above, I would like to ask, Mr Secretary of State, what is the objective of the government with this talent programme, whether they intend to continue with the national talent programme in the coming years and, if so, under what conditions. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-96	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-11-02-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The issue is extremely topical, even because there was an important event last week. It was first in the history of the National Talent Program and Hungary that, in the 8-35-year-olds, exceptionally talented Hungarians received scholarships for their unique development. In addition, this scholarship has been granted to 157 young people who are highly talented in the fields of arts, science or sport, who are fully exempt from tax under the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act. A scholarship for the nation's young talents. This means that these young people - initially 157 and then more and more - receive a total monthly scholarship of between HUF 100 thousand and HUF 1.5 million, and, as I said, this is personal income tax-free, and they are free to use it to finance their studies, their further education, or to purchase previously non-financially permissible instruments, such as instruments or scientific aids. The budget for this year is 260 million HUF, and the submission of applications is continuous, so as soon as they are submitted, they will be continuously evaluated. And this was only the first 157 young people to receive it, and we expect more. As Congressman said, the HUF 6.8 billion that was distributed in the national talent programme, which was adopted by a 20-year parliamentary five-party consensus, is very high, almost record. I think the 1.6 million students, young and pre-educating teachers who participated in this program received Hungarian support from the program proves that this was a very important and successful program. It should also be added that 21 thousand of these were young Hungarians across the border. The complex talent programs implemented under the National Talent Programme help young people in the fields of arts, science and sport from early childhood to adulthood. We pay particular attention to the fact that when a person comes from a complexly disadvantaged family, if he is a Roma national or if he has a disability, and if he comes from a district where we have developed complex development programmes. What can be supported, in addition to the above, by organising various academic and artistic competitions or by getting out for similar academic and artistic competitions abroad, by supporting a scientific student movement, and by supporting a professional college program to promote the formation of intellectuals who are also committed to public tasks. In the spring of 2013 we launched the award for the talent of the nation, Bonis Bona, in which teachers and trainers can receive the prize, who, as talented professionals, take on talented young people and help them. This is not only a moral but also a material recognition. 2015 is a milestone in the history of Hungarian talent programs. The government, paying special attention to the support of talented young people, added 1 percent of the tax offered by taxpayers for this purpose to an amount equal to the tax payments collected, so that the national talent programme, in line with its objectives, was once again available, with a total of HUF 2.8 billion, which, if compared with, for example, the amount of 2013, we can say that three times that is now available to the talent programme. The increased amount of resources will ensure the continuity of talent management processes, the support of programmes that will enable talented Hungarian young people to use their knowledge and talent in the long term and here in Hungary, and, in addition, we will be able to publish new programming elements from new sources. That is why I ask you, Congressman, to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-98	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-11-02-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the government has given faith in the continuation of a programme which, with the support of the five-party Parliament started at the time of previous governments, so with full support from this House, and given the progress it has made so far, has decided to allocate additional resources to it and provide opportunities for young people living within and beyond the borders to achieve the possibility of breaking out, their goals and dreams. It is a very high number, there are over 21,000 people who have gained this opportunity as Hungarians across the border. I am very pleased that the government will not forget them in the next period and will also be available to them in order to achieve their goals, despite where they come from, what opportunities they have, and even if their parents or relatives could manage to finance further education. I think, Mr Secretary, this is a wise decision and, of course, I accept the answer to my question. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-100	Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "Health" on his head. It's up to Congressman.
u2015-11-02-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you know that three doctors and two therapists leave our country on average every day and leave for western Europe and Scandinavia in the first place. We could ask why there's such a great deal of exodus. I think there is no need to explain in particular that a practicing doctor working in Western Europe or a hospital doctor earns up to ten times the Hungarian wage. In addition, professionals and doctors leaving our country are usually of the opinion that it is the more predictable legal environment, respect and fair accounting that motivates them to leave the country, and that a significant part of them are not in their right mind to return to the country. According to a survey carried out by the Synopsis poll, a quarter of those surveyed - the Hungarian doctors who were emigrated - marked the system of gratuity as the main repulsive Hungarian peculiarity, which is why they do not plan to return to Hungarian health care. A significant part of Hungarian doctors working in Hungary also condemn the existence of the institution of gratuity money, which is a clear criticism of corruption at the lowest levels. Following the appointment of the Secretary of State for Health, it was concluded from statements published in the press that more radical steps could not yet be expected to be taken to promote the health situation in a spectacular and effective way. It is a good fact that he claims, at the same time, that there is also a Prime Minister's revelation that the necessary means for improving the health situation will be insured, but in this form it is not enough, as I think. The newly appointed Secretary of State said that, as a primary objective to be achieved, he considers assessing the needs of those receiving care in order to prepare practical steps to improve the efficiency of care. The expected results of the survey are fully evident, as is the case with the government's primary and now indeterminate measures to remedy the emerging problems of stakeholders, and this is the immediate increase in wages for sectoral workers. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether he is willing to fight for the benefit of patients and workers, in the interest of the Prime Minister's revelation that the government will take health recovery as a top priority. My second question to the Secretary of State is whether you would consider it a rational step, so that Hungarian health should be the beneficiary of nearly HUF 200 billion Tao credits instead of or alongside sports clubs. Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply.
u2015-11-02-102	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[16.30]]
u2015-11-02-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you think about the perspective of a Hungarian doctor or a Hungarian nurse in 2010, then I can say that perhaps one of the most depressing moments for them after the change of regime was that the failed attempt to introduce a visitation fee and the inability of the then MSZP-SZDSZ government contributed greatly to the breakdown of the entire government coalition itself, and because they could not reach an agreement on the issue of health care, but it was one of the top priorities, and then the worse conditions in hospitals after the fall in wages, as we must not forget that you have lost a month's wages to health care workers and that you cannot even hope for any kind of development. It can be said that in 2010, health was characterised by a lack of perspective. And since then, the government has provided 500 billion forints for the development of buildings, for instrument equipment, either in hospitals, in primary care or for the purchase of ambulances, for the construction of emergency stations until 31 December of this year, which means that it has mainly given workers in the countryside a kind of hope that they can work under better conditions, that they can create the infrastructure in which to perform healing activities. On the other hand, the government's ambition to separate the private business and the public service and health sector everywhere is, I believe, also to prevent or reverse a harmful process in the field of health. You spoke most of the time about medical emigration, honourable Member. If you look at the figures, when there was a record in Hungary, it did grow in 2009, it increased in 2010, and until 2011 the number of doctors who requested an official certificate that was necessary for working abroad or renewed their previous certificate of this kind. This peaked at 1200 in 2011, then decreased in 2012, then less people asked for it in 2013 and less people asked for it in 2014. So we managed to reverse this type of emigration process and reduce the number of doctors asking for permission to work abroad from Hungary from 1200 to 950. Everything has many reasons. One is only a noticeable improvement in working conditions, as such improvements were not possible in the last 20 or even 50 years in the health care institution system, but it is also important that the government was able to spend HUF 76 billion from the economic fund that Hungarian reforms created for him and from which the budget could provide additional resources to cover the wages of health care workers, well, this could mean an average 27 percent increase in wages for 95,000 doctors and nurses working in health care in 2012-13. And we continued this year, as we were able to increase the salary increase of 41,000 HUF for the previous, on average, one graduate medical worker. In next year's budget, which you have not voted for, HUF 12.8 billion is included in the form of a wage supplement for the extra wages of those who work next to a sickbed, who work several shifts, working several shifts. Of course, these are amounts that we would like to increase further. We hope that the growing economy will also provide coverage for this in the next period. In any case, if we are talking about health, then in the area of prevention, whether in the case of tobacco control, in the case of public health product tax, i.e. chips tax, we have succeeded in providing healthier food or by adopting a healthier food regulation, but one of the most important things is perhaps that the number of people on the waiting lists, which lasted more than 70,000 during the period you received, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 70,000 people waited for waiting lists, dropped to 44,000 last year, and this year under the 6 billion waiting list reduction programme to 37 thousand. From 70 to 37 grand! I think that's quite a step forward for the patients. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Crying, though, "That's right!]]
u2015-11-02-104	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-11-02-105	Thank you for the floor. I don't accept the answer, Mr. Secretary. I'm sure you should have noticed that you've been in government for almost six years, and you're the ones who've been waiting for solutions. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Not from you!]] Mr. Secretary, you didn't answer what happened to the Tao money. Nearly 200 billion forints were made from entrepreneurs to support sport, and now, as we hear, they're about to build the nation's boiler room in Felcsút and build stadiums from these grants. It would be a much better place, in my opinion, for this money to finance health care. You know, Mr. Secretary, no one has ever recovered from a stadium in their life. [[Rumble in the benches of the governing parties.]] I would also like to point out that, for a sentence, you have not said what you intend to do with the institution of gratuity. You know, to the very core, this whole healthcare system is corrupt, and the primary reason for this is the immeasurable system of gratitude money, which is now unbearable for people who want to be cured in Hungarian health care. I don't accept your answer.
u2015-11-02-106	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 110 votes in favour, 32 against, with no abstention, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Orange Company: after a stadium and a small railway, the Orbán family selected a cave? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2015-11-02-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, With some concern, we read in the news the other day that the transfer of the small train with the arboretum in Alcsút, worth 800 million HUF, will be delayed. The small railway, which is of national strategic importance, as the government declared the small railway investment from the House of Viktor Orbán to the Alcsút arboretum as a priority investment; until the Alcsút arboretum, for which the government has spent hundreds of millions of forints or hundreds of millions since 2010 in recent years. The only problem with this is that, as it is now the case in Hungary, this hundred million-dollar sum could have landed at someone other than the country's favourite gas mechanic, the billionaire peasant farmer with the crusted palms at Lőrinc Mészáros, who could garden in the arboretum for hundreds of millions or hundreds of millions, as he is excellent at this, as in so many other things. Speaking of the Duna-Ipoly National Park Directorate, according to the latest rumors, a member of the Orbán family, Győzsef Orbán Jr. and his interest in putting their hands on a highly protected natural value, the II. Lőrinc Mészáros, situated in the district, covered with thermal water... - Lőrinc Mészáros Cave is not yet called, but it might as well be called [[Defiance.]] Mr János Molnár's cave, which is late, does not go away, my fellow Members, knowing the Fidesz government ; its underwater sections for diving and the use of cave diving for education purposes, the cultural uses of the air and underwater sections of the cave. This is a unique natural formation in Europe, as the Minister acknowledged at the Commission's hearing, but the nature protection authority does not have the appropriate means to exploit it, so he intends to hand it over by tender to a private company. According to the profession and news, the tender was tailored to the interest of Orbán Győző Jr. No one other than that one diving company is able to meet these conditions. According to our information, the data subject himself personally participated in several consultations with the authority on this matter. The question arises as to why the Orbán family is interested in a cave. Like I said, it's a unique formation in the world. It could be an ideal place for cave diving, and cave diving has money, because it is not the sport of the poor, we all know that. From this point on, it is understandable why the Orbán family and the Orbán family need this cave. In this case, however, we are talking about a natural value developed over thousands of years or tens of thousands of years, and the special fauna of the cave is also at risk if it falls into the hands of incompetents. Not least, Luke's bath also receives water from here, so the water quality of a spa is influenced by what is happening in the cave. So I ask Mr Secretary of State: is there nothing safe in Hungary today if the Prime Minister's family, friends and business partners cast their tentacles at him? Does the law or the Hungarians of future generations have no interest in preserving our natural values? What about the János Molnár Cave and what about Hungary? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[16.40]]
u2015-11-02-108	I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2015-11-02-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Undoubtedly, the János Molnár Cave is one of the most valuable natural treasures in Budapest. I believe that it must be possible for both foreign and domestic interested parties to present its unique beauty. In view of the fact that it is a cave filled with warm water, it is really possible to know its values underwater. To achieve this goal, the launch of tourist activities based on cave diving can be an appropriate tool. The National Park Directorate has permission from the nature conservation authority to exploit the cave. The permit also lays down the nature conservation conditions for the use of the cave, which must be fully complied with by the user. Thus, the conservation of the natural treasures of the cave is assured. In addition, the nature conservation authority may examine whether the exploitation takes place in accordance with nature conservation interests by means of official controls. The fact that a national park directorate makes use of ecotourism facilities or adventure tourism caves with the involvement of Hungarian businesses, local workers should not be considered unprecedented. Nature conservation cannot be for self-serving purposes, and this also shows that the activities of national park directorates to promote natural values are, in many cases, an opportunity for businesses, for the Hungarian people, to create jobs and make a living. Since the Board of Directors is unable to provide personal or material conditions for the diving of the underwater sections of the cave and for the use of the cave for diving education purposes due to special circumstances, it decided to grant the right of exploitation. The third party was designated by the Board of Directors, in accordance with the provisions of the State Property Act, after the conduct of a tendering procedure. This third party is a legal person with sufficient expertise and material conditions for exploitation. Orbán Győzsef Jr. does not participate as a member or as a representative, so I must strongly reject his allegations. Among those who are entitled to the right of exploitation, we can find persons who have been involved in the research of the cave for years with the necessary permission. Researchers have shown significant results in the survey of the cave and its wildlife. I therefore find it completely unfounded to visualize incompetence and the danger of the value of the cave. I am warning your concern about the water quality of the Luke bath that the cave has been searched by divers for many years, and this has not caused any deterioration in water quality. The quality of water is regularly checked by the Luke Bath. It is incomprehensible that the honourable Member is concerned about legality, the preservation of our natural values and where Hungary is concerned about the legitimate exploitation of the János Molnár Cave. In conclusion, the Danube-Ipoly National Park Executive Board has a permit to exploit the cave, and the right of exploitation can be exercised under the conditions laid down in the permit, which are intended to protect the natural values of the cave. The use was granted under an open invitation to tender. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-02-110	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-11-02-111	Dear Secretary of State, You can say that it has been won by a company working there for years, and that it is not among the winners of the tender by the name of Győzsef Orbán Jr. Well, they'd be fools to put it in by name, or he'd be a fool to apply by name! They did it a lot smarter than that. The company that was involved in his research and exploration was thrown out of the cave by you and the authorities years ago, and then received some kind of temporary permission from the diving company I was talking about in my interpellation. So you can say that he's been searching the cave - in quotes - for years. In fact, most dives, obviously diving education and sports and hobbies, have been done, in the cave state, causing significant damage, according to former researchers. Obviously, however, they will not acknowledge this either. Now, as winners of the open tender procedure, they can do this for another ten years, unfortunately at the expense of the country and nature conservation. I can't accept your answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-02-112	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes, 33 votes against and one abstention. Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interview to the Prime Minister's Office, who is lying, the Kei or the Minister of Agriculture? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't see Minister Lazarus, the Secretary of State has never given me an answer. The Minister used to give relatively correct answers. I trust, despite your personal absence, I can have these. It was practically published in the press that Kehi reported on state forestry. In the case of public forestry, several irregularities have been detected and very high personnel costs have been identified. For this reason, the Minister replied to a previous interpellation that he extended the Kehi investigation to all public forestry in order to explore what was going on in these forests. According to the Hungarian public opinion - but I also refer to the Minister, who said at a committee meeting that he unfortunately agreed - there has been a waste here for a very long time. The fact that there is a taxed income of 1-2 billion dollars after 92 billion dollars of turnover gives rise to suspicion in itself. In addition, the Index wrote with reference to the Kehi report [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] that in some public forestry there were also personnel costs of 46-48 percent as executive rewards. On 2 October, the Minister of Agriculture told one of the newspapers that he had not yet seen this report, that he thought it might not even exist and that he was fully satisfied with the operation of state forestry and that he did not know anything about any extended investigation and such. Minister Lazarus confirmed in his reply to an earlier interpellation that this Kehi report exists, but the Minister for Agriculture claims that he believes that it may not exist, and that even if it does, he cannot condemn these forests because he believes they are exemplary and well-managed. Moreover, this ministerial statement was clearly confirmed by the public forestry, six of which said in joint communications that they were very well-managed. I would like to know whether the report exists or does not exist, if it exists, whether it is possible for Members to ask for an insight into it, i.e. what is done, i.e. the 6 public forestry, not the 22nd. If there are 22 studies extended to forestry, I would like to know when the report is expected to be drawn up, and I would like to clarify this situation, the reasons for which the Minister for Agriculture can make a completely different statement from these facts. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-02-114	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2015-11-02-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Although I'm new to this genre, I'd be surprised if you'd accept my answer. For some reason, there's been a practice where we slowly don't believe what we're asking each other. But allow me to give you a specific answer to your question. Kehi already included six forestry holdings in its annual review report for 2015 adopted at the end of 2014. This was specifically the Bakonyforest, the Egerforest, the Mecsekforest, the SEFAG, VERGA and the Zalaforest companies. According to this, the investigation of these forest companies started on the basis of the annual work plan, and Kehi's president reported this to the government and the Prime Minister's Office in the sub-report before the end of the specific inspection document. Subsequently, as serious irregularities were suspected in this investigation document, the Prime Minister, who led the Prime Minister's Office, decided to extend this investigation to all 22 forestry holdings. I would also like to confirm, Mr President, that once this inquiry has been concluded, the Minister will give you full access to the inspection document. However, I would also like to add that the Prime Minister's Office does not want to brand anyone. We'd like to wait for the Kehi investigation to be completed. In the extended study, all 22 forestry farms have the opportunity to form their own opinions against claims relating to them, and Kehi's investigation can then be considered closed, and then it will also be possible for you to have an insight into this document as a representative. [[16.50]] I think it is very important to say that the set of findings that apply to the six forestry holdings comes from a period in which forestry farms did not operate during the Ministry of Agriculture. Therefore, I would like to ask the Member for some patience until this inquiry is carried out and, as has been the practice of the Prime Minister's Office, you will be given an insight into this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-116	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-11-02-117	Mr President, In view of the fact that I have received an overall full answer to a significant part of the questions, Mr Secretary of State cannot clearly say that the Minister for Agriculture lied when he claimed that this did not exist, but that this can be considered to be broadly so, so I accept his reply. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-118	It's a rare moment. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Please remain calm after such an announcement. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: Hungary loses new jobs by thousands! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, You can read a lot, you can hear it, but you can feel it, you can see what's happening on the stage of business. We see that not only foreign businesses, investors, but also Hungarian businesses and investors are acting in such a way that, above all, they do not invest in Hungary, they do not create and create new jobs here. This is very unfortunate, because on the one hand, the Hungarian government has driven away hundreds of thousands of workers with potentas in their hands, in their minds, and on the other hand, those who could employ us are not investing here, but are moving their money elsewhere. There are other areas to this. If we look at the retail sector or the commercial sector, we can see what the mall closures or the mallstops meant. We'll see what the closings on Sunday have brought. In one case, we lost jobs as much as possible, and in the other case jobs were lost, and now, in a demonstrable way, we have experienced an unemployment increase of 5-6 thousand in one case and 10 thousand in the other, if not in the registers, because the registers are different from reality. We also see what government restrictions and inconsistent behaviour bring with them. Obviously, the same thing I said at the beginning: declining investment intentions and thus declining jobs. In fact, the biggest problem and problem we see is that the government does not want to make any of its promises about six years ago. Just remember your basic promises, you won't have to think for long, starting from a radical tax reduction to creating a million new jobs in the economy. [[Cries from the ranks of Fidesz, including Kósa Lajos: Ten years!]] On the farm. Just to make it clear and clear to Mr. Kósa, the leader of the group, about his interrogation: in the economy. You know the difference between public employment and new jobs in the economy. Now, in order not to deal with you, but with the subject, I have to say that the creation of a million new jobs in the economy in ten years is accompanied by a category of inopportune, but I would like to ask you with great respect when you are serious and when you are going to do something meaningful in order for this to happen. My second question concerns the type of labour statistics magic that will stop boasting about showing hundreds of thousands of public workers, those who are displaced abroad, and those who have fled abroad, thanks to you, in the statistics. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And when they're gonna give society a real picture. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-120	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2015-11-02-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, I have to say that the facts contradict what you have formulated as a statement or were trying to state in your question. Most of the time, you argue with the data of the KSH when you make an interpellation or question. In relation to what you said, for example, about job creation, employment, the fact is that there are 4 million 265 thousand people working in Hungary, this is KSH data, Member. This represents an increase of 555 thousand since the government change in 2010. Another very important number, because you claimed that there was no increase in the number of employees in the competitive sector. In contrast, it can be said that jobs in the competitive sector were the decisive factor in growth, where, I would like to stress, the number of people has increased by 332,000 compared to what you have just said here. There is, of course, a change in employment, with fewer people working in some sectors and in other sectors, but I would like to repeat it once again: overall, employment has never been as high since the change of system as it is today. I would like to remind you that in the years prior to the financial crisis, there were no new jobs in Hungary, with economic growth of 4-5 percent, because you had a high level of employment-related taxes and charges, so companies did not increase the number of employees. In contrast, in the framework of the job protection action, the government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, has significantly reduced the cost of employing the most disadvantaged sectors in the labour market. From 2013 until August 15, employers in the competition sector used more than HUF 310 billion in job protection. This form of support currently promotes the employment of more than 870,000 workers. So, unlike what you said, there is no mass job loss in Hungary. With regard to trade, retail sales have been increasing steadily since July 2013, according to August data, sales volumes have increased by 4.7 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. This meant a 3.7 per cent increase in the retail trade, a 4.6 per cent increase in non-food retail trade, a 7.4 per cent increase in fuel retail sales. So you were wrong about those people, so you're wrong about those who were afraid of mass dismissals in the retail trade, because as traffic grew, the proportion of employees increased in proportion. In the first seven months of this year, the number of employees was 187 thousand, which is 4 thousand higher than in the same period of the previous year. Thus, while consumer prices are low, real wages are increasing, so people are spending more, and there is a greater need for the work of trade workers. Thanks to the government's work, an application programme has been launched with more than HUF 100 billion available for job seekers' employment support. In response to the importance of skilled labour in trade, Auchan Magyarország Kft. From October 2006 onwards, it set out a comprehensive wage development programme, recognising that raising salaries is essential for keeping workers. It is therefore expected that both retail sales, wages and the number of employers will increase in the coming period. Thank you very much for your attention and for accepting my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-122	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-11-02-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, if you were a little close to the truth, I'd try. At a time when you are talking about a growth of 332,000 people in the economy, at least you, as a new secretary of state, should have learned that you are involved in this statistics, let's say 150,000 people working abroad who are driven away by you, who are doing work abroad. But you should also know that the Fidesz has long since given an account here that it has fulfilled its commitments - here, within the walls of Parliament - while doing nothing about it. The unemployed are being pushed out of the system, train or make public workers, and these people are being brought into employment statistics. Are we talking minimum wage or any other wage? What are you talking about, a drop in contributions? The minimum wage charge has been increased by HUF 32,000! You have to pay people, you know, Secretary of State. Giving them pay, tangible material goods and jobs for which they are in the economy [[Noise, interruptions from the Fidesz ranks.]] You know, they can live their lives in the economy. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] A million new jobs in the economy, what they promised, nothing but that! Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[17.00]]
u2015-11-02-124	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Vote! Vote! [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: 109 votes in favour, 33 votes against, and without abstention, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. For the last interpellation, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, applied to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. If you had listened, would you have remained wise, or would you have been the Minister of State of the Prime Minister's Business in autumn? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, "If you had listened, you would have remained wise," says the saying, which is certainly not known to everyone in the ranks of the Prime Minister's Office. As you know, Mr. Secretary of State, a few days ago, your fellow State Secretary, L. Simon László, made an extremely sincere remark here in the benches of Parliament, and the statement to Jobbik was exactly like this: it hurts that you don't own the business. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Behind this cynical comment is a very definite statement, which is: there is business, and this business is indeed on the government side. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] - we heard this from a Fidesz MP, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office. But we are not watching what we heard from L. Simon László, but what L. Simon László has done so far, because it is a man whose entire political career has been accompanied by the business. I am talking about the businesses that have caused the general public to stumble individually, for example, when the road connecting the Agárd with Zichyújfalu leads to László L.'s pension and winery for 795 million forints. You know, Secretary of State, this is the pension advertised on Legenybuchu.lap.hu, together with several classified ads with a specific erotic content. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] - but business is business. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] But the area of agricultural subsidies also appears to be a business in the understanding of the Secretary of State: L. Simon László's family companies received HUF 160 million of state aid after the change of government in 2010, including Simon and Simon Agrarian Kft., acclaimed in the scandal of the anti-cancer peach seed. - but business is business. Just as it could have been a business when, surprisingly, HUF 267 million received non-refundable funding for the renovation of the Dabasi-Halasz Castle in Chapelnyék, a company that was, by the way, the publisher of L. Simon László's books. What's so surprising about that? That the application for aid had already been rejected twice. And why isn't it surprising? Because the castle itself used to belong to L. Simon László's business - but they know that business is business. I understand that there is no alternative for the Minister, and the scandalous Secretary of State was about to be demoted under the cover of the last government transformation. Don't you think, Secretary of State, that the last confession, in the absence of a measure of sufficient gravity, will mark the forehead of the Ministry, the entire government, and even the governing parties? So I ask you: how long and what else are they holding the secretary of state, who has fallen into a total lack of morality and has become irresistible to the extreme? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-126	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I think my short winning streak ends with this answer. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]] But let me say that since I wasn't here during your duel, but I have read the minutes in part, I should urge everyone to rest a little, and advise them to step back one or two steps, first of all because I think that what Jobbik is doing on this issue is hypocritical and deceitful. [[Defiance, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] They are talking about anti-corruption and transparency, and they claim that you are impeccable because you have not been in government yet, while your party leader says that the Hungarian political problem is that the parties are already corrupted in opposition. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I wouldn't solve this logic buffet, I'd leave that to you. You're talking about every politician publishing his own family's property statements. It's not necessarily a bad practice. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks:]] You have to admit that. [[Interviews from Jobbik's ranks:]] There will be a social dialogue about this, and then we will reach MEPs, and Jobbik will very quickly draw the handbrake, their leadership will come down and say that this is nothing but a teenage mistake. You are talking about patriotism, healthy nationalism, protecting Hungary - I ask you with all due respect: how much of this can a person suspected of espionage be allowed to be one of Jobbik's foreign policy advisors [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: I knew it!]] who, by the way, has supported this party with massive millions [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right!]] Of course, we don't know where this money came from. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Honourable Congressman, I'd be careful of any word when Members judge each other, because what will happen if your party president pulls out the carpet from under you and says that your words about corruption here are nothing more than a teenage mistake? Your baseless and baseless accusations here and now I don't want to respond [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Allow me, however, to make a few points. You mentioned the road between Gárdony and Zichyújfalu, about which - I would like to remind the public of the Parliament - they made a decision of support during the Bajnai government in 2009, and I am aware that the construction of this road has not yet begun. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) As regards agricultural subsidies, Simon and Simon Kft. The same amount of aid per hectare is granted [[Interviews in Jobbik's ranks: Business is business!]] like any other producer in the European Union, let's talk about the Queen of England. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true! That's not true.]] And in connection with the renovation of the castle, a very important information, but I think that it is in the public interest, that, in contrast to other renovations of this type, which we have seen in Hungary over the last 5-10 years, there is a public-interest exhibition space, not a fun function. I think that the Member will have the opportunity to ask a number of questions to Secretary of State L. Simon, as I understand that he will remain a member of the Government until 2018. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Oh!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-11-02-129	Mr. Secretary, your answer shows that lying, slipping and spending public money goes pro. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] The Jobbik has released the spouses' declaration of property, and you will make it public. [[Lajos Kósa: We want to see Béla Kovács!]] You're saying here that you're saying that you're in the opposition, indeed, you're in the opposition, and you're admitting that. And what else is a confession? [[Intercoms. Noise.]] The fact that in opposition L. Simon László received public money from the MSZP-SZDSZ government in 2003 to publish a book of poetry that I do not want to classify here, but that is not a book of poetry, but a scandal. [[It's constant noise.]] And to quote only one detail between the walls of this house, and not the ugliest detail, because the walls of the house couldn't bear it, he says: "The velvet wrinkles are smoothed / the paint stains have disappeared / the distortions of the shapes have become barely noticeable / I can't smell shit anymore / I'm sorry! The reason I don't accept the question is because we can still smell this particular smell. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The question?! Let's hear it for Jobbik. Lajos Kósa: Thank you for your poem analysis!]]
u2015-11-02-130	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking if they'll accept it. Now vote. [[Vote. Result appearing on the table: 104 yes, 35 no and 1 stay. Some are leaving. It's a lot of noise.]] Dear Parliament, Please remain in your seats, there will be another interpellation. [[Intercoms, noise.]] Take your seats. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. When can the members of the Honvéd Health Fund get access to their savings? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. [[It's constant, it's loud.]]
u2015-11-02-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As is already known, due to the Buda-Cash and DRB scandal, 28 thousand members of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund lost 1.8 billion forints of savings, most of them soldiers, military, law enforcement and national security workers. In this case, liquidation may take years, and it is completely unsustainable and intolerable, so that these 28,000 people do not have access to their savings. In response to my last immediate question, Secretary of State L. Simon László fully shared the position of the MSZP that the members of the Honvéd Health Fund were in trouble without their own faults, and therefore a solution must be found to help them. [[17.10]] I am pleased that the Prime Minister's Office recognises the gravity of the problem and the need for state aid against the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. Unfortunately, in addition to expressing his commitment, the Prime Minister's Office has not taken any concrete steps in this matter either, and time is passing, and the lack of savings for health purposes is becoming increasingly painful for the relevant, largely professional, cashiers. In response to my immediate question, the Secretary of State referred to the fact that the current legislative framework limits possible State aid. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the case of the Quaestor victims, neither the general rules have been applied, but there is a separate law on the assistance of victims. It is incomprehensible why the government, which is not averse to unorthodox solutions, is reluctant to establish the necessary legal rules when it would help the country's soldiers, defence, police and national security workers, who have been unfairly harmed. The members of the Honvéd Health Fund have not been trading, they are in this difficult situation without their own fault. And we have seen that when it comes to a sensitive matter for you politically, as well as Péter Szijjártó's close acquaintance, Csaba Tarsoly in the Quaestor, they immediately begin to take action, and we have seen that it did not really work. However, it can also be seen that it is not a hundred billion forints, it is only 1.8 billion forints. I would like to ask the government not to take advantage of the fact that soldiers, military, law enforcement and national security workers obviously do not protest on the streets. In view of all this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State when and how they will finally help the troubled members of the Honvéd Health Fund. When are you going to submit to Parliament a bill to help members of the Honvéd Health Fund? And I would like to ask you not to refer to the EU's interpretation practice, because we have seen that when there is a political will, you can begin to compensate. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2015-11-02-132	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go.
u2015-11-02-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for giving us the opportunity to speak on this issue again in front of the public of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to inform you that the wallets concerned have now dealt with this issue in several circles and have examined the possibility of helping the 1200 victims concerned, like Quaestor. However, this inter-relationship could be concluded with the conclusion that the relevant legislative environment is very different from that of the Quaestor case, where, as Mrs Quaestor rightly mentions, a completely independent and different legislative environment has been developed. However, it is added that there have not been such foreign difficulties as in this particular case, namely the EU legislative practice that you have criticised. The situation is currently that the directives followed by the European Union do not allow for this type of action, so the methods we have used so far in the Quaestor case are not applicable here. As Minister Lazarus has previously referred to you in his written reply, this does not mean that the government is not trying to solve this case, but, unfortunately, it cannot happen, as is the compensation for the Quaestor victims. In any case, the government is pleased that the unorthodox legislative practice, which had previously been criticised by the MSZP, can talk about the introduction of either the bank tax or the sectoral special taxes, seems to be able to find support in the future, perhaps a little closer to the people who sent you here theoretically. The new legislative option will be examined by the government on this issue, but the fact is that Hungary cannot make this type of law at the moment under the relevant Commission provisions, and if we were to do so, we would have to expect a breach procedure within a year, at the end of which the total amount paid would have to be repaid to the European Commission. However, in that respect, there is no debate between us, Congresswoman, the Government would like to settle the cases of 1200 victims. We hope that we will find a solution to this which will be at the intersection between the government and the European Commission, so that it can comply with all legislation. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-134	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-135	Thank you very much. Basically, I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply. I am pleased that the problem itself is recognised, and you can see that it is the money of 28,000 people, so it must be dealt with, but time is passing, Mr Secretary of State, no matter how we look at it. In the case of Quaestor, they were able to mobilise public money from the budget and mobilise money. We're talking 1.8 billion forints, 28,000 people's money. We see that the Hungarian National Bank has an indisputable responsibility, because these things happened at the bank they controlled, right, at the DRB, which caused this savings to be lost. It seems that when it comes to the Hungarian National Bank's spendings, it can fit art, it can fit paintings, it can fit palaces, it's a question of how much 28,000 people matter to you. We expect those who work for this country, the way they do, to get their money.
u2015-11-02-136	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament [[In many cases, standing up from the ranks of the governing parties, they indicate that their machine is not working.]] the State Secretary's reply by 96 votes to 38, with no abstentions [[Intercoms from the ruling parties, including: Our card doesn't work!]] He's accepted it. [[Lajos Kósa: I accept the Secretary of State's answer, but my machine doesn't signal back.]] 97 yes, Mr. Kósa faction leader [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] His vote was taken into account, with 96 plus 1 votes and 38 votes against, without abstention, the State Secretary's reply was accepted by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to talk about immediate questions. I am ordering a moment's recess while my fellow Members leave the Chamber for an urgent public task. [[Several MPs are leaving the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a short break.]] [[Dr. István Tiba and Nándor Gúr occupy the notary seat.]] We'll continue our work. We'll be right back in time for immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members who do not participate actively in the work of the sitting. [[Foreman Novak: I'm not active either!]] Please leave the meeting room quietly. [[17.20]] Dear Parliament, József Tóbias, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: from the redeployment of Imre Nagy until the flame of the revolution is extinguished... It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a result of an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2015-11-02-137	Thank you, I accept.
u2015-11-02-138	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Our President Árpád Göncz, the beautiful creation of Mária Lugossy, the flame of the revolution, which stood here in Kossuth Square for almost two decades. During the year, he kept the flame, but between 23 October and 4 November, he flashed, indicating how 1956 appeared in the heart of the nation's main square and all Hungarians with it. He'd be here today, if he could. But it is not here, because when you converted Kossuth Square, although you promised to rebuild the state before 1944, and the flame of the revolution was taken away, which is stored to shame in a stone-carver settlement in the country - we do not know what its fate will be - here was discovered by Árpád Göncz's former partner in the revolution and captivity, Imre Mécs. We understand that you have come very far from the revolution in which workers' councils were formed, from the revolution in which the people heard their voices, where the intellectuals of the Petőfi Circle, the boys of Pest, the workers joined together; from the revolution, which wished for our country to be independent, the Russian soldiers to leave our country, let us be a sovereign country in which public media today behaves like the voice of a Moscow radio, where there are unclear business affairs between the circles of Moscow and the Hungarian government. For the nation, however, the revolution is sacred, and for the overwhelming majority of the nation Árpád Göncz remains the President of the Republic. I ask the Honourable Minister to have the decency and goodwill to put the flame of the revolution back where it belongs, in Kossuth Square. You like to call it the Nation's Outdoor, fill this with some content, replace the flame of the revolution! Thank you.
u2015-11-02-140	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-11-02-141	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to confirm once again that the Hungarian Government has partly expressed sympathy and expresses its sympathy to the family of Árpád Göncz, who died, and, on the other hand, we pay tribute to his memory, as the Hungarian Government and the parties of the government indicated on several occasions on the day of his death. On the other hand, I believe that Fidesz and all political parties who were born have the right to bear the title of heir to the 1956 Revolution, which came into existence in the 1980s, in contrast to the repressive dictatorship of the political party which, from November 1956, from the moment it was founded, destroyed the spirit of 1956 with fire and iron. I think that if anyone needs to clarify something, it is primarily the MSZPs who need to clarify their relationship with the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party, given that all members of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party need to know and those who represent the successor party that the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party was created to drown the revolution in blood. It was his most important political and historical mission. In response to your specific question, I would like to say that the House, the Parliament, has the right to determine the structure of the space and the structure of the space. That is why it was born, I think it is a reassuring decision for all of us that, in connection with the series fire at Kossuth Square in October 1956, a museum has been established in the main square of the nation, which, for all of us, I believe, presents in a reassuring and worthy way the story of the tragic, quite shocking and vile series fire on 25 October 1956, giving an insight into the significance of 1956 to all our countrymen and all foreign visitors. So it's not that we refused to take the memory of.56 even further, and we draw attention to one of the most despicable acts of October 1956 by the Communist dictatorship when we commemorate the Kossuth Square series fire and present it in a museum. The next minute, I'm going to answer the merits of your question. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-142	Thank you for the Minister's reply. I give the floor back to Mr. József Tobias, leader of the group.
u2015-11-02-143	Well, let's focus on the substance first. The most noble respect is not in words, but in action. That's where he belongs. Second, Minister, you know that I was 18 when the regime changed. Stop your communists! [[János Pócs: But you're after them!]] If they didn't focus a little bit on the forgery of history, they'd know exactly that the most noble left-wing legacy we have to take is what we don't do, but we don't do crane feathers and we don't believe in new feudalism. With all due respect... [[Interview in the ranks of Jobbik: László Kovács! To Jobbik:]] First, the espionage department is cleared. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] With all due respect, it's not the right solution to keep anything in history if it starts with you. It was before you, and I'm sure it will be after you. That monument was created on the initiative of President Árpád Göncz with the support of the Hungarian government. If you want to respect his work properly, then support and restore the flame. Thank you.
u2015-11-02-144	Thank you, Congressman. Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-11-02-145	Thank you very much. I believe that, at the time of the renovation of Kossuth Square, the Parliament, if I may say that as legislator, the House of all of us, the House of Law, has acted with due care in relation to the repositioning of the statues of Kossuth Square, see the statue of Attila József, or - I believe that if this happened in a manner acceptable to the artist, it should be acceptable to all of us - the transport of the statue of Mihály Károlyi to Siófok as a legacy of Imre Varga; the excellent work of Imre Varga, the master, who has been among us in his 93rd year now, was placed among the other works of Imre Varga. So we honor the statues, we are not one of those who believe that the past must be completely wiped out, and in this spirit everything must be removed from his memory. So I am ready as a Member of Parliament, even with you, to turn to Speaker László Kövér, who is the owner of Kossuth tér, if I may say so, in order to discuss the fact that at present, I believe Nyergesújfalu [[József Tobias: There he is.]] How can we place a monument in unworthy circumstances? [[Zoltán Gőgös: It will be cut apart, Minister.]] I think that this is something that should be discussed by political parties, because space is not government, but nation, and the owner of space is legislation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-146	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President of the House, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Are you not afraid of anything? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mr Vice-President, Mr President, whether you will accept the person of the response or ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2015-11-02-147	Mr President, I'll wait for the Prime Minister to answer.
u2015-11-02-148	This means that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: instead of the illusion of success: a real failure. It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[Dóra Dúró: I accept.]] Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Technically, there's been a steady insolvency at KLIK. We see that you are still rolling a debt of about HUF 6.5 billion, that many teachers have not paid at all the salaries for their lessons, there is a district that has not paid travel expenses at all in this academic year, even though it is already November. There are months of delays. Some teachers have not received their salary since May, and the education system has already sunk to the point of asking parents for class money to run the school at all. There are also very serious difficulties in the Arany János program, poor children can't go to the language exam, they can't get a license, even though they were funded during the program, but by the time they got there to get a license or a language exam, they couldn't afford it. There were also cases where classes had to cancel Transylvanian travel because although the central budget provides funding in the Arany János programme, KLIK does not pay the schools. Secretary of State, where does this money go? Who is responsible for not getting from the central budget to the schools via the KLIK? It can be seen that KLIK spends less on running schools than it asks of them, so many municipalities are thinking about getting back the operation they gave to KLIK; there is also the loss of money. [[17 .30]] So there are huge problems in the education system, KLIK failed to fulfill the expectations, despite the government saying that it is a success story, the problems are steady, the payments do not reach the teachers, for whom these few thousand forints also mean a great deal. Mr. Secretary, who is responsible for all this? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-150	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-02-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You know that teachers are not taking home more than five years ago with a few thousand forints, but with several tens of thousands of forints, because as part of the teaching career, their wages increased by 40 percent, as well as in September this year by 3.4 percent. What you have said is that municipalities are considering where to put their right to operate schools: you may know, Congresswoman, that every five years, after every municipal election, the municipalities can decide whether they want to hand over the right and responsibility of their schools to KLIK, and in 137 cases local and local authorities have decided to give it to KLIK instead and not to retain the right to operate and operate the schools. It also shows that, although you are talking about the opposite in Parliament, in that 137 cases your own settlement, your own institution, your own students would have an enemy of the local government asking you not to be himself, but to be the KLIK that runs your school? [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] You also talked about KLIK's debt, but you forgot to tell me that this amount is an ongoing loss of money, a smaller and smaller amount that you read about in the papers, which is KLIK's outflow. In the case of wages, it is very important to make a distinction that it is possible that, where appropriate, the extra allowance for graduations or other extra incomes arrived a few months late to the teachers, but their basic wage, who is there as a public servant, as a educator, gets an extra allowance every month. For the first time in 2013, it was HUF 32 billion in the KLIK budget, and last year it was another HUF 120 billion, and this year it was another HUF 38 billion, which we were able to provide to teachers through KLIK. And I think there were such differences between school and school in Hungary that there was no other solution to reverse the opening of scissors than the introduction of central maintenance and operation in public education. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-152	I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró.
u2015-11-02-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, When the teacher career model was introduced, Minister said that teachers' wages increase on average by 34 percent. If we look at how much the wage increase before it lost its value, we can see that in real terms, this increase was 2.8 percent. All of this was done with no extra money for replacement and overtime for teachers, and their hours increased from 22 to 26. At the time, they promised that the minimum wage would increase the salary of teachers every year. Then it was abolished, and the salary of teachers will not increase in January, against your promise. With the establishment of the CLIK, they promised stable public funding and reduction of differences, even though in April this year they acknowledged at the conference held by the Institute for Education and Development that this system could not do so either because of its systemic flaws or because of insufficient funding. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-154	It's for the Secretary of State.
u2015-11-02-155	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, You know very well, and I will also tell Ikotity's fellow Member, who asks the same question: 24 hours and not 26 hours are the average number of teachers in the current CLIK institutions; therefore, less. Nevertheless, I find it very strange how you calculated these two tithes, that this would be the real wage growth of teachers, while inflation in Hungary stopped, the wages of teachers increased by 40 percent. [[Dóra Dúró: Until 2013, Bence!]] That it is possible that 40% increase in wages and zero percent inflation in your calculation results in a few percent increase in wages. I do not think that is true, honourable Member. As far as the Arany János programme is concerned, to which you referred, we have been able to help the children of the poorest parents successfully in secondary education, and 3,000 students have therefore participated. And it is so successful that 150-170 percent of over-subscribers and 80 percent of students are admitted to higher education institutions. I think it's a successful program, which is why we supported it, and that's why the students applied for it in such a large proportion. [[Dóra Dúró: Why don't you pay for it?]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-156	Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mr. Congressman if he accepts the identity of the Secretary of State. [[Ikotity István nodds.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The teaching career model launched in 2013 significantly increased the burden of teachers. The increase in mandatory hours and the mandatory time spent in schools also puts the already one-sided wage increase in a different light. The burden of educators has been challenged by the Teachers' Faculty or trade unions, but the problem has not yet been addressed. Even Lajos Aáry-Tamás, Commissioner for Education, said at last December's parliamentary committee hearing that I see signs of fatigue and fatigue in public education, which, I say, could be regarded as common in June, but at least surprisingly now, I cannot explain the situation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The government's response to LMP's questions - these were written questions - has now proven to be the overload of teachers, but also how unfair the distribution of labour costs is. LMP found out that two thirds of teachers have to teach 24 or more hours, which is much more than in the pre-life model system. We all know how hard it is to prepare for 24, 25, 26 hours a week, it takes a lot more hours to take it seriously. This was confirmed by the previous survey of the Teachers' Union. We think it's untenable that the teachers get tired in the fall and are exhausted. The children will suffer most of this. Once again, we recommend that the National Basic Training Plan and the workload of teachers be reviewed as soon as possible. Do not blame the problem of analysing working time statistics, which will not lead to a solution. Dear Secretary of State, Are they finally willing to review their previous wrong decisions? When will teachers be assessed with an independent participant? When are new working hours regulations being prepared? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-11-02-158	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-11-02-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As far as the specific data is concerned, 24 hours is the average clock load of teachers. How and in what form overtime money is paid is the result of a collective agreement between the KLIK and the Teachers' Union, since this is where the most important agreements were concluded. And how the record of working hours and overtime is going to work, and that is the individual competence of schools. So much for the specific numbers you said. But I'd like to step back three or four on the subject. So there we were in a situation in 2010, when we saw that although the performance and educational results of children in Hungary for decades were outstanding in Europe, the Hungarian pedagogical profession was truly a miracle from many other countries, after the change of regime, this advantage of Hungarian students began to decline by a decade or two, their performance began to deteriorate. That's why we said it had to be improved somehow. In order for students to have a better performance, it is really necessary to provide higher performance for teachers. But we said we couldn't ask teachers for greater performance by not being able to differentiate, including no rating system, no education supervision system, and no higher wages for them. That is why we said that we would first spend more on teachers and thus on children, to teach them and to educate them. The budget is making a bigger sacrifice, and I have just said that this larger sacrifice can be measured in the order of a hundred billion, but in return we are asking for greater content performance, and we believe that students with a higher salary will be applying to the university as well - the Klebelsberg Scholarship that we are looking for - children with better abilities will go to the teacher for higher scores, and good teachers will be able to keep the higher wages on the field. Therefore, we really expect an increase in the performance of teachers, but this is why teachers II can cross over. To your degree, to your master's degree. So there is an opportunity to make progress, which really encourages about 70 percent of teachers to achieve higher performance, and they also require these specialist supervisors. We therefore expect higher performance, but also higher wages. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-160	I give Mr István Ikotity the opportunity to return the answer.
u2015-11-02-161	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you so much for going so far into this system. First of all, I would like to point out that you have also changed the system of operation and maintenance - because this has also been said - to the extent that it has become exactly the opposite of the previously extremely decentralised system; you have now created an over-centralised system. They went into the same dead end instead of trying to find a middle ground. [[17.40]] You may think you've paid a higher wage, but at the time you started, you stopped, but you know perfectly well that you changed it right after the announcement, and you broke it down for four years, kicking out one leg, kicking out another leg. You know perfectly well that they have separated their salary from the minimum wage, and you also know that the wages of teachers' assistants and teachers' workers have not been increased by a penny since 2008.
u2015-11-02-162	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-11-02-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'll admit, prepping for an hour obviously means a lot of work. I have also seen that teachers who have really put everything they could afford into my life, how much it means to people later on, so you have to acknowledge the work that they do, and you obviously have to have a good framework for that. At the same time, it is also important to see that when it opens an OECD study, which now focuses on education in addition to health, it shows that this burden is still below the average educational burden in OECD countries. As far as centralisation is concerned, you should be partly right about this, and the legislation of the past period, the laws submitted to Parliament, have also shown that we really want the central apparatus of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre to be halved, and that as many as possible would go to the county center district, would be more optimally distributed, whether management of funds and spending on a treasury card, the heads of institutions could decide on their own expenses, and fewer things would be decided in Budapest and more in the counties. We agree with this direction, with this correction, such laws have already been adopted by Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-164	Dear Parliament, László Pósán, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Will the financial stability of higher education be achieved? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you're okay with it. Congressman says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It is a long-standing problem that higher education is indebted overall, and the institutions also express every year that they do not come out of state aid. However, the austerity of socialist governments starting in 2004 - we remember the Draskovics packages - over the years they have tried to fill the holes with increasing revenue, but that was only enough to achieve a level of maintenance, but in many cases not even this, because they were forced to make significant cuts. It further exacerbated the situation in higher education when PPP investments started and subsequent repayments to which socialist governments involved higher education; in particular, they were in a difficult situation when they found out what risks they had taken on foreign exchange loans. The Hungarian citizens now understand what this meant, because many people felt the unbearable feeling that the longer they paid, the more they owed. It was a further burden that, by the time the investments started in the PPP scheme were completed, the demographic decline resulted in an excess of capacity in part of higher education, so there was an institution that immediately rented the newly completed building and part of the building because it could not take advantage of it, but the cost of maintaining the instalments was still very high. It is understandable that, because of all this, the total unsustainableness of the existing higher education institution system was constantly on the agenda, which the Socialist Government wanted to deal with in 2006 with the introduction of student tuition fees and which was later foiled by a referendum. The fact that, in the meantime, higher education wages have not increased or even decreased during the Bajna government has given rise to legitimate dissatisfaction, since the 13th month's wage has been taken away, thus endangering the educational and research supply. Dear Secretary of State, What measures has the portfolio taken to consolidate the financial situation of higher education? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Has the established chancellorial system brought any tangible results? And do you see an opportunity to further stabilise the financial situation? Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-166	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-11-02-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it was perfectly clear to me where the strategic mistakes that had taken place in the pre-2010 period, which made the higher education institution system completely vulnerable, because they had a huge debt. And here I am thinking primarily of PPP investments, because the investment itself was made, handed over, cut through the tape, and then should have started paying off, it just turned out that not only does this not generate revenue for higher education institutions, but it generates extra costs, because they were not really needed, they could not fill, say, the college or start the training for which they built a building. It is important to introduce the chancellor system, because here there is a burden off the shoulders of the rectors, because they have to deal with the academic life of the university, the operation of the Senate, and not the economic and financial issues. For this reason, the chancellors were better able to engage in structural changes, whether process-based regulation or maintenance control, much more exact and tangible. However, the result of this can be measured by a number, as the previous HUF 20.5 billion debt in the higher education sector has decreased to HUF 8.9 billion in a year since the chancellors have worked there, so that the debt of higher education has been reduced by less than half in one year. This is now less than 2 percent of the total expenditure allocation, even though it was close to 5 percent a year ago. So we can say that it is successful, because there are now realistic revenues and to a minimum or necessary level in the design of the budget, and I would rather say that it is limited expenditure, so the liquidity of the institutions is much more secure. Of course, it has contributed to this by having a separate restructuring fund, which could help universities to switch from ten billion to one which enabled efficiency-enhancing and cost-cutting improvements. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-168	I give Congressman László Pósán the possibility of rejoining.
u2015-11-02-169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I think that if we hear these figures and at all that in such a short period of time we have managed to achieve quite serious financial savings in this sense, then we have reason to believe that the ideas that aim to organise wages in higher education do have a basis and that they have sufficient resources and merits not only and exclusively from the current budget, but also from within the system. If such a debt reduction could be achieved over a year, then later, when the structure issue can be put on much finer tunings for more efficient management, I am sure that these internal reserves are a very serious amount for the future as well. Thank you very much. I wish you good work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-170	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-11-02-171	Thank you very much for the floor. I would also like to mention that we have created a separate fund for PPP investments, which is supported here by Parliament, as the 2016 budget includes HUF 5.3 billion to replace PPP investments. Here, we strive to primarily replace those that put the institution, the university or college in the most difficult position, and which most endanger liquidity. Obviously, there will also be an aspect of what can be done afterwards for a property, it can be used for educational purposes, or it has gone completely wrong in planning, it cannot be possible, and there will be other ways to make use of unnecessary capacity created in PPP investment within universities. But we hope that for the most difficult universities, this EUR 5.3 billion grant for PPP replacement will provide an opportunity that they may have been waiting for for for ten years or perhaps longer. In fact, we are paying the bills that were based on the Hungarian Bálint education policy management and higher education management with investments at the time, but with the current payment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-172	Dear Parliament, László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Where have the private pension savings gone? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. Do you accept his identity? [[On Dr. László Varga's mark:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-173	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Minister János Lázár said at the government briefing on 15 October 2015 that the account in the social security pension scheme is capable of establishing the amount of the pension in proportion to the contribution paid to the person and the years spent. What is being called upon us to record them in relation to private pension savings is incompatible with this, which is not the purpose of this system. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. One more quote from Viktor Orbán, February 2, 2011:. This year, the Hungarian pension system will also switch to the pension system held in the individual account. The government agrees that the accumulated pension savings of the private pension fund member entering the social security pension scheme will be recorded on an individual account after the transfer to an individual account. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[17.50]] This is from December 2010, as well as the policy statement on the protection of members of compulsory private pension funds, which states that the institution of individual account management must be guaranteed to former mandatory private pension fund members crossing the public pension system. Those are heeled sentences. I say this for a reason, because 3000 billion savings were taken from 3 million Hungarians when private pension funds were abolished. This money is now missing, it is not available, so their pension is significantly reduced and reduced. They promised me an individual bill. Once again, we did not agree with the whole beating, but if the individual bill had been promised, we would have expected that they would have fulfilled that promise. That's what these 3 million people were waiting for. The question arises, Mr. Secretary: where has the money gone, and what will become of the individual bills? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-02-174	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-11-02-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, It is quite incomprehensible that the Hungarian Socialist Party is still searching for this private pension fund money, looking for it, but it may be interesting why. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The private pension fund issue has been closed since the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund was established under the 2010 Act and private pension fund was transferred to this State-managed supervisory fund. These funds ceased their activities this year, their accounts were prepared, brought to Parliament, the Parliament discussed it, the State Audit Office checked and approved it, and, moreover, the Parliament has already voted in favour of the report. You have to pay attention to what's going on in Parliament, Congressman Varga, and then you know where this money went. Unlike your claim, that's exactly how these people secured their pensions. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] not by transferring the money collected by the State from the deduction of contributions guaranteed by law to private persons, private funds and investing their money wherever they see fit. They Gave People Small Returns [[Zoltán Grimlock: 6.5 percent!]] So little that people's pensions were in danger. These private people, who you obviously know well, who they are and how they work, that if people had put their money in sovereign debt during that time, that would have given them a higher return than the private pension fund system you love so much, which, by the way, doesn't work anywhere in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-176	Congressman László Varga has the floor.
u2015-11-02-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I was hoping that some of the sentences in the government info would start a process so that we could talk about it calmly, but it seems that we can't, because he talked about the whole case in the same field as we've been used to in the last five years. The problem with this is that while you can debate the technical parameters of a system or change it... - but there was 3,000 billion savings that people had in their own accounts, and it was their future retirement plan. This would have been available to them at the time of their retirement. I don't have it today. That's the real problem, and they can't answer that. The answer they gave earlier is that it will be recorded in an individual account, and it will be available to everyone, so it has not come true either. Mr. Secretary, when are you going to admit that the people in this case have been deceived, and when will they be properly compensated for what they have done to them? Thank you.
u2015-11-02-178	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2015-11-02-179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Fidesz didn't deceive anyone, it was the Hungarian Socialist Party that deceived him. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Oh, don't be silly.]] the establishment of a private pension fund system for people. The question of an individual account: today's register contains all that can be determined on the basis of individual pensions and individual income. It's all in the current records. I would like to make it clear once again that the government debt reduction was HUF 2476 billion, of which the transfer of sovereign debt and cash to the ÁKK was HUF 2017, cash transfer to the Budget Pension Insurance Fund was HUF 459 billion, real return payment to 231 billion, and MNB Zrt. bn HUF 264 bn. Here's the money, Congressman Varga, and not where you think it is. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-02-180	Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Who can go bankrupt today in Hungary? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept his identity.
u2015-11-02-181	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-11-02-182	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-183	Mr President, Dear House, At the end of the so-called settlement process in relation to the currency-loaning situation, the victims may have expected the miracle from the institution of private bankruptcy or family bankruptcy, even if this came to the House after several years of slipping, after five years of sluggish and stalling. At the same time, we can see that while not only the government, but also one of the executive directors of the Hungarian National Bank, talked about 20-25 thousand potential recipients, who can expect discounts and facilitation in the institution of family bankruptcy or private bankruptcy, the number of contracts signed can be commuted somewhere around 100, and a few hundred more may be in preparation, but this is quite a small number compared to the total number of victims. We can also see that by setting an additional deadline, the government is trying to save the insurmountable, but the numbers do not lie, so far the government has spent some HUF 626 million on the private bankruptcy system, which, if it had paid the entire debt of the 100 people who had signed it, would have come out of the final account at a cheaper rate than in this way, in this way, where they actually spent so much money on themselves and on the system. We are not saying that we have to pay the debt instead of these people, but that we have always said that they should only pay their dues, so let us take the penalty rates, taxes and unfair items imposed on them by the banks. But what is quite amazing is that, while 140,000 families are not able to pay and pay completely, they are largely out of their own fault, because the government has legalized the penalties that have been placed on people's neck, and the forinting in the so-called settlement and not in the exchange rate at the time of admission, but rather in a more favorable way for the banks. So the question is: if 140,000 families were in a situation where there would be a justification for assistance, then why has there been only a hundred cases of apparent assistance when even 10 thousand would be scarce? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-184	Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2015-11-02-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that this issue is already on the agenda today, but you have also highlighted the problem on immediate issues. Just as we discussed this issue in the debate on the amendment of the law, the primary objective of the government and parliament was to help families in distress, and that the institution of family bankruptcy protection, which has not yet been published in Hungarian law, should be included in the same way as in most Member States of the Union. We also discussed that we have all been able to follow the struggles of the last five years here in Parliament together, where measures such as the exchange rate barrier have been introduced, the end-payment, the forinting of loans, the fair bank law, which served to make the banks accountable, and the reforms that will enable the law to be applied have also been carried out in the executives. The involvement of the National Asset Manager in this issue has also enabled the asset manager to help families in some 25,000 cases. In the private bankruptcy, I would like to make it clear that families can receive repayment support up to HUF 25,000 a month. So all the burdens they have are not complete, but mitigated, and until the end of the procedure, they only have to be repaid and then practically released from this pile of obligations. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The fact that the government would have legalized earlier states, we all know that's not true. It was an existing legislative structure, which, after the decision of the Constitutional Court in Luxembourg, we managed to get it to the right place by legislative means. I'll keep going. Thank you. [[18.00]]
u2015-11-02-186	My fellow Member Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa has a rejoinder. With all due respect, I'd like to say hello to all of you. Here you go.
u2015-11-02-187	Mr President, Dear House, When I suggested that the government legalized the free robbery, I did one simple thing. If someone took on their so-called foreign exchange loan on average at HUF 155-160, and your law HUF 256 at the market rate, the money between the two was swallowed with interest unduly by people, and the banks were put in practically an easier position where they did not have to account for it. But since then, you have also signed a treaty with the EBRD, where you do not take on any additional burden on the banking system and do not allow it to protect the Hungarian people. You have undertaken this, and the Government of Hungary has taken it on its own. And as far as their private concept is concerned, in certain cases, the free-spendable money per person that comes to a family member is well below the salary of a public worker. So it's a very strict, very rigid system. And it's outrageous that they don't let people loose in the end. After five years, Jobbik would therefore demand that these people be free to go, without debt, and finally live a life worthy of man. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. The rejoinder also applies to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary.
u2015-11-02-189	Thank you very much. What the congressman has done is that they will be free to go at the end; if such a regulation were to be made, no one would probably pay, but would wait for those five years. [[Dr. István Józsa: Coverage! Z. Kárpát, Dániel: But there is a real estate cover!]] And basically the legal framework that we have developed in this country would be virtually meaningless. What was also on the basic question was why few families had used it, I partly answered what measures had been taken to remove the carpet from the previous set of problems, but there is still an eviction moratorium, and based on the experience of the previous period, it is clear that those concerned will wait and use these benefits or opportunities if they actually find themselves in a more difficult situation. With regard to costs, I think that it will stand up in line with the introduction of all the other legal institutions, and now that experts in the bankruptcy service are helping debtors instead of banks, I think they will be able to apply it even more. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Interior an immediate question: Will there be a firewood for those in need? It's an address. Minister Tibor Pogácsás appointed Secretary of State. The congressman nods that he accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The one who wants to solve the winter heating of the needy is a big hit. For socialist governments, the tree must have been big enough to look at it, as they did not even try to do so when they were in government. In 2011, the Orbán government launched a programme to facilitate winter heating for socially deprived people. The municipalities with a population of less than 5 000 inhabitants received state aid in order to provide fuel free of charge for the part of the population in need. At that time 900 million HUF was the amount that could be applied for, for which a small amount of 10 percent of self-esteem was required, and the delivery to the house had to be organised, which was also solved by the municipalities. We know that local authorities helped, if necessary, with the sawing of firewood and, in many cases, with the chopping. The amount of resources that have been available since then has steadily increased, to multiples, and the form of aid has expanded over the past year with brown coal. Dear Secretary of State, The heating season is on, General Winter is knocking on our doors again. Therefore, I respectfully ask how many municipalities this year have preferential access to firewood or brown coal, whether the municipalities have access to support before the real winter. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-11-02-192	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2015-11-02-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the provision of winter fuel in the family budget is a significant item. This is also true when we talk about the most commonly used fuels, and especially when we talk about households with the smallest sources, since individual heating is most common in families with the lowest income where they can afford the lowest costs. Indeed, a programme was launched in 2011, in which the government provides resources to municipalities to buy firewood and fuel. It is important to say here, so the government provides the source, and it is the local government who has to complete the entire programme. Local governments can participate in this programme on the basis of households receiving housing support and the programme has been growing ever since 2011. In 2011, only 456 municipalities applied for this option, this number kept increasing, of course the amount provided increased, and already in 2014 we provided HUF 3 billion and HUF 3 billion for winter fire purchase in 2015. This year almost all municipalities with less than 5 thousand inhabitants applied, and this year was the first year when there was no formal wrong application. The municipalities have received the aid, the aid is constantly being allocated, and we are confident that they will be able to deliver the wood before the biggest period of the firing season. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2015-11-02-195	Dear Secretary of State, It is difficult, yet pleasant, for local authorities every year to have a fair distribution of social fuels, since we know that the claimant is always more than the firewood available. This is why the government's efforts to increase local government support for the purchase of social firewood and brown coal year after year are welcome. This support is essential for small settlements in rural Hungary, where a lot of people still heat with wood and coal-fired stoves and boilers. We very much hope that the government will continue to help small-scale municipalities and the people in need through them in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-196	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary Tibor Pogácsás.
u2015-11-02-197	Thank you very much. Indeed, the programme is essentially aimed at smaller settlements, but it does not specify any territorial detachment, so it is possible to apply from any part of the country. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure transport costs and transport, which is why we are proposing public forestry as partners. By the way, when each programme is launched, the forest farms will be consulted on the amount of fuel they can otherwise provide. In disadvantaged municipalities, there is no need to secure a part of themselves for this tender or to receive the aid in a gross way, i.e. increased by VAT, so that local authorities can distribute this fuel as widely as possible. Of course, they can also provide additional support to the inhabitants of the settlements from their own resources and under their own authority. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of May Other Politics, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you want to do with our most personal data? It's an address. The Minister instructed Secretary Bence Rétvári to respond. I'm asking if you'll accept his identity. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman Ikotity.
u2015-11-02-199	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, On 19 October, a bill was published on the Ministry's website, including the establishment of an electronic health service space, the EST, which would collect health data from all citizens. In recent years, we have been talking about the second draft establishment of a national database providing for sensitive personal data. As with the facial image record, the record of health data also has completely rational reasons, for example, so that people do not have to go to some tests with a large package of documents. [[18.10]] However, according to the news, the owners of our own health data will not be ourselves, and we will not be the ones to decide exactly who uses them and what they use them for. Under the planned rules, neither the court nor the NAIH will be able to intervene in the data processes after the data are received, which violates certain provisions of the Council of Europe's Data Protection Convention, the EU Data Protection Directive and, of course, conventions describing fundamental human rights, including the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. In the new database, each lab result, a text history, all images taken by imaging would be recorded. For the record, this isn't going to be a simple technical task. Hospital access is conditional on passing on the final reports, outpatient records, findings, imaging diagnostics and surgical descriptions accumulated over 20 years. I ask the Secretary of State if the NAIH has been consulted on all this. Have any impact assessments been carried out? Do you really believe that citizens cannot have their own personal health data? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-02-200	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-11-02-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that if people normally talk in Hungary and say that their medical records and data should be electronically handled and that in order to avoid a previous data from one doctor to another, it should only be a button push, then everyone says yes. Obviously, even if we do our banking on the Internet with a code or SMS code, then it is perfectly natural that the conditions for healing can be improved by getting these data into an IT system that allows doctors to make more accurate decisions and serve the patient's health with this speed. We have created a system with a data management background similar to that in Austria, France, Spain or Estonia. I would also argue with that, honourable Member, that this would not be in line with EU data protection procedures. Obviously, not anyone has access to these data, other than the citizens themselves, as far as the doctor or the prescription is concerned, the pharmacist-educated health worker, who is obviously looking at these data for the purpose of healing the person. Who looks at everything is logged into the system, obviously the person of the accessor, the time, the type, and the success. So it can be traced back in any case, so the responsibility is clear. There is a two-factor identification, so the person who has access to these data must identify himself not only with a password but also with a clip card, so it is not possible for someone to dictate their password and someone else to scan these data. Of course, if you have unauthorized access, you can not only go to NAIH, but also to the court. There is also a digital self-determination module, which can be accessed through the customer gate with both this and a written declaration. Who, of course, controls their own case and can determine their access to their data, and I'll tell you in a minute how. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-02-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Ikotity has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-11-02-203	Thank you. This part is comforting, and I will be very curious to see you in the next minute when you tell me how it will be possible to limit our own data and obviously to be their own owners. However, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary once again, which was actually my question, perhaps it was not quite clear, so I will ask again. Before that, I would like to point out that we have often seen any law being created, a regulation being put in place, and that it is not asked in advance by the authorities most competent in this matter, nor are they assessing the effects of this, nor are there any impact studies being carried out; so I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State again whether the opinion of NAIH has been consulted on this, whether impact studies have been carried out. That's my main question. Obviously, he has already replied that citizens will then have their own health data, if I understand correctly. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-02-204	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2015-11-02-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The development team of the State Health Care Center is in constant contact with the NAIH, of course, and everyone else who is in charge of contact with them. Thus, the system will, of course, be preceded by an IT security audit of the system. How does the system work? The patient himself can even adjust to forbid his data from being uploaded. This is clearly contrary to his interests in some respects, but obviously he has the opportunity. So that's when healthcare providers can't upload their data. The basic setting itself in this healthcare system is such that it hides data linking to a particularly sensitive health condition, especially psychiatric data and gender-related documents. So they are hidden without any specific setting, but of course, the citizen will have the opportunity to be notified in the system if new documents are produced in the system, and if he receives the notification, he can also have a separate provision, so he is safe. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The main goal remains to get the medical records of all patients to the doctor as quickly as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-02-206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Do you wish to live up to the future? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2015-11-02-207	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Let me know that last week's articles on the freezing of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund were just a sudden bad idea, which you've all figured out is a bad idea. In 1998 the then responsible decision-makers created a Nuclear Financial Fund, independent of government changes, whose main objective was to finance the final disposal of radioactive waste, the temporary storage of spent fuels and the decommissioning of nuclear installations, not to pay for the future generation, but to save them in advance. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant paid 21 billion forints each year to the fund, so at the end of last year, 243 billion forints were collected in the cash register during 17 years. According to the articles published last week, a discussion paper by the Prime Minister's Office is about stopping the payment of the nuclear power plant, and with the money thus released in 2017, I imagine that a year before the elections, the money here would be used as a campaign tool to reduce the costs that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant would pay in the next period. But this, Minister, is not a found money in one of the pockets of the state, because the money taken will be missing later. In time, our children will have to make up for this money. Minister, this is also a moral issue, because our predecessors have been thinking ahead and putting me aside. This cannot be squandered in the present. The mindset that your government is thinking about, in the future, would be irresponsible in this matter, Minister. Rest assured, the nuclear power plant has a more responsible view of the future. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-11-02-208	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-11-02-209	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Congresswoman, First of all, on behalf of the Government, I would like to thank you once again for paying particular attention to the fact that you support, monitor and continuously control our current Paks steps to improve capacity maintenance, using the tools of the public and Parliament. So I'd like to thank you for Paks I and the future Paks II. I consider this to be a very important thing, as I have offered you the opportunity to cooperate with Paks, and with the use of parliamentary or governmental instruments here. With regard to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, I would like to say that no decision has been taken by the government. Of course, we will look at the security aspects of the management of nuclear waste, as well as the interests of the country. We strive to ensure that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant complies with every domestic and international rule in the future, as in the past, with the nuclear safety requirements from which it has passed an excellent test under management there. We don't want to take any risks. What could provide room for manoeuvre, according to some experts and experts, is that when the Central Nuclear Financial Fund was set up, everyone thought that the permission to operate the Paks Nuclear Power Plant would not be extended, that the operation would be completed 20 years before it was originally planned. In the meantime, in parallel with the financial replenishment of the Nuclear Fund, the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has been extended for some 20 years. It is subject to consideration whether or not experts who say that this gives a financial margin are right or not. [[18.20]] The government hasn't even examined this yet, so I'd like to draw your attention. There is only a proposal on the government's table based on the fact that, according to some experts, a 20-year extension of capacity and operating time gives a financial margin for the use of savings so far, since the savings so far have not been planned for an additional 20 years, but for the original deadline. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-02-210	Thank you very much, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congresswoman.
u2015-11-02-211	Thank you very much. I will continue to keep an eye on this issue, as the issue of the Nuclear Fund is a very important issue. It's a responsible decision to make. In 2001 and 2002, we saw once before that the budget was not paid into the Nuclear Fund by the then government. I think that it must continue to be paid, because even professionals cannot know the amount of money we are talking about in the end. I think that it is a responsibility for everyone to continue making payments, for responsible thinking is not to be frozen, and for such discussion material not to come before the Prime Minister's Office. I think we're really letting politics get away from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Politics has no place in decisions on the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Politics will leave Paks alone, and everything will be fine if the profession can decide on this matter. Thank you.
u2015-11-02-212	Thank you very much. It's up to the Minister in a minute.
u2015-11-02-213	Thank you very much. I'm waiting for the árgus eyes, as far as your attention is concerned. With regard to what the Member said, I would like to point out that all the financial provisions relating to the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant can be considered in only one respect, while I would just like to confirm that the security aspects are the most important. And that is the only question that we have difficulty answering, at least we cannot see clearly: the Paks Nuclear Power Plant sells electricity to suppliers, wholesalers over 11 forints, perhaps for 40 forints per kilowatt hour, and you and your constituents pay HUF 38 for it. I must admit, I consider it a fine job as a representative to answer the difference between 38 and 11, and I would like to finally find out why 11 is 11 for a nuclear power plant where we are long over the depreciation period. And perhaps together, with your support, we can make a decision that can really make electricity cheaper for all Hungarian voters. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-02-214	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, This item is closed. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. Szabolcs Szabó, an independent representative and support representatives have proposed that the Parliament decide the T/5906 on the real compensation of the Quaestor victims. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in a series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Szabolcs Szabó, the rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-11-02-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the MSZP colleagues for their support for their signature in order to discuss this proposal here in plenary, which was swept off the agenda with a noble simplicity by the Fidesz majority of the committee. On the other hand, I would like to say that the same speech was given today literally by Levente Barley at an event of the Quaestor-harmed in Kossuth Square. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, We are here today to repeatedly draw the attention of society, the public discourse, to the case that has been the worst brokerage scandal since the change of regime, the Quaestor scandal. The scandal itself could only arise as a result of extremely serious government and supervisory failures, and the leading politicians and members of the government of Fidesz may be involved in this matter, at least this is suspected. Numerous lawsuits have been brought on the subject, most of which are still ongoing today. How could the supervising central bank allow the Quaestor to issue so many bonds? How did the central bank also fail to notice that money was drawn from people in the size of a hundred billion by selling nothing? If government leaders had information about bankruptcy, why didn't they inform the public about it? How could public authorities quickly receive their money on the day of bankruptcy, when most individuals no longer received it; or if so, they must explain it to the courts, while the trading house has still escaped legal accountability? Why didn't the Attorney General of Polt Péter do anything about it for weeks? How could the CEO of Quaestor for a few days be a painter, Béla Orgován? How come there's no legal or personal implications of the case with the central bank at the D.A.'s office, the State Department, and the government in general? Did everyone really act legally and professionally in this case? It has now become apparent that not only is the scandal itself, but also the government's handling of the scandal and the government's communication are literally scandalous. Apparently, it's an indemnification case, but in fact, the stakes are much higher. The perception and credibility of the government and the entire Hungarian political culture may depend on this. This spring, at the height of the scandal, the government made the political promise that it would reimburse all Quaestor damages to 30 million forints, rewriting the laws in force. You could love this law, and you couldn't love it. We, the representatives of the Joint, did not vote for the law, but the majority of the government accepted it. At that time, the victims were calmed down, and now it turns out to be wrong and temporary. Because it turns out that Fidesz didn't really want to fulfill his own promise, he didn't want to keep it. The legislation in question has been written in such a way as to make full compensation impossible in practice. It lacks the right government guarantee. It's hard to believe this happened by accident. It is hard to believe, since previously all financial insurance funds - including OBA and Beva, so all financial insurance funds - provided the necessary guarantees for the operation of the State, namely the ready-paying guarantee, but not for the Quaestor Fund. Instead of recognizing their own intentions, the leaders of Fidesz are now looking for a false excuse, an excuse, in the usual, outrageous way. Right now, the banks are going to delay the Constitutional Court's submission, even though everyone knows that such a submission does not have suspensive effect. This has been confirmed by all legal forums. That is not the real reason, but that there is no real intention of compensation in Fidesz and there has never been any real intention. This is how we got to the point that today it is a good thing that 30-35 percent of the total damage was paid to the victims, and many victims who had far less damage than HUF 30 million. The legislative amendment proposed by the Joint Committee would provide the appropriate government guarantee, the ready-paying guarantee, which would allow for this kind of compensation in practice. For the decision itself, Fidesz must assume political and financial responsibility. Our law-modernist is just a tool for that. The stakes are not small: the vote will reveal what Fidesz really thinks of his own political promises, his own political credibility, in addition to talk and government deception. As Viktor Orbán said earlier, listen not to what I say, but to what I do. Yeah, we're gonna see this. A possible non-response would mean that Hungary will continue to be a country without consequences. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr János Volner - Jobbik - in writing.
u2015-11-02-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As we have already indicated in the Commission's debate on the proposal, Jobbik has submitted an identical proposal, similarly because the claims of the victims have been made to us. Of course, we support the Member's proposal, and we agree with its aim. We would also like an explanation of the government's failure to explain why the damages are taking so long and why tens of thousands of people have to wait for their money. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-218	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, MSZP. [[18.30]]
u2015-11-02-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Hungarian Socialist Party also supports this proposal. I didn't submit it because it's not a competition for everyone to submit one, and then make it three - although those three are almost more than there are in the governing party now. But those of you from the ruling party may be able to remind your faction tomorrow, all four of you who are here, and five of you, along with the Secretary of State, that seven Quaestor-damaged people are sitting behind us right now, and we will ask you to look them in the eye, and tomorrow, in the vote, remember that when you could have solved something, you did or you didn't do something. It was a great disappointment at the meeting of the Economic Commission, when our colleague Dénes Galambos put up the old record, which had long since expired, since their own Minister, Minister of Trocsányi, wrote to me that the Constitutional Court's proceedings do not suspend the implementation of the law in any way - I note here in brackets that if it were to be suspended, then you should also suspend the land law now, because there is also a request for ex post regulation. [[Zoltán Haughty: Yes, yes!]] We gave it to him. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: Exactly!]] I trust that your group leadership, or you, can consider that, while you have pushed each other aside in March and April, who will save these victims, you will not participate in the debate here, while you are sitting here, listening, waiting for this day to pass, and waiting for it to pass tomorrow, there, I suppose, you will feel free to press the no-knock button, or rather, I think you will be cowardly to press the button, and I say this because I believe that we have much more experience than we have left. But still, if you ever think about it again tonight, look in the eyes of the victims behind me, and think about it, and I ask you to support this proposal tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-02-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2015-11-02-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, According to Szabolcs Szabó's proposal, the government would guarantee the Quaestor Fund loans, so that it could quickly compensate its victims, so that it could borrow from market participants or from the Hungarian National Bank. The payment is now being postponed, and the government claims that the Constitutional Court is examining the law. In terms of the content of this proposal, it is not entirely in line with the LMP's position, as the taxpayers would pay instead of Quaestor and the Hungarian National Bank, i.e. those who are truly responsible, but we feel that it is absolutely necessary to put it on the agenda and negotiate. The Constitutional Court is discussing in these days the regularity of the legislation under which the Government established the Quaestor Damage Fund. According to press reports, it is realistic that the Constitutional Court cancels the Law on compensation for victims of Quaestor. Of course, the government should have known that if it had not previously consulted the banks and the Banking Association, they would have attacked the Quaestor Act before the Constitutional Court. In any event, LMP considered it extremely strange that the government only found special compensation important for this single corporate bond. LMP resented the distinction with Quaestor in terms of Baumag, Buda-Cash or Hungária Securities Ltd. For its victims, the state has not passed a separate law, for each one it should have been passed together, so not just one. Obviously, it was only for the Quaestor that the majority of the government created this law, because in those scandals the government did not see the need for distraction, as Csaba Tarsoly's mergers with certain prominents of the government are widely known. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The LMP supports the inclusion of the proposal of Szabó Szabolcs, an independent Member.
u2015-11-02-222	Thank you very much. No more political groups have applied, so I give the floor to Mr Szabó Szabolcs, an independent Member [[István Szilárd Németh: Mr President! Mr. President. István Hollik reporting.]] To whom, according to the rules of the house... [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Someone is enlightened! On the mark of István Hollik:]] Have you heard from him? I don't see him here. [[Zoltán Gógös to István Hollik: You always untie it, probably!]] The button! [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Press the button. Okay, I give the floor to the representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Congressman István Hollik.
u2015-11-02-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that all parties agree, and our position is clear in this regard, we believe that Quaestor has been a fraud in business, and it is quite clear that the victims of this fraudulent business must be compensated. For this reason, thanks to the governing parties and the government, the Quaestor customers have been compensated by all legal backgrounds with the law which the House has adopted by a 97 percent majority, i.e. with the support of the bettermen and the MSZPs. [[Dr. László Kács: Why don't you do it? Zoltán Grimlock: Where's the money?]] By the end of 2015, the compensation amount paid to 31 113 victims was more than HUF 86 billion. We're really aware of... [[Dr. László Kács: That's a third of it!]] we are aware that this is not full compensation. You know as well as I do that you can't make a fuss. [[Dr. László Kács: Is there such a word that you can make noise?]] and there can be no full compensation, because the banks have lodged a constitutional complaint, which is trying to stop it. [[Dr. László Kács: You knew this was not possible!]] We do not support the inclusion of this proposal in the series. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] we do not support the inclusion of this bill in the series of articles because we believe that it is responsible behaviour and, by the way, we will help the Quaestor victims if we wait for the Constitutional Court's decision on this. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How many more people should die? Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] We'll see what happens with this law, and then we'll be able to decide how to live up to the original goal. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: Let's wait for him at the ground. Zoltán Haughty: What about the earth lib?]] Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-224	Thank you very much. I will ask if there is any other speaker besides Szabó Szabolcs, an independent Member. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Then, according to the house rules, you have a four-minute window, because as an independent Member, you applied for a speech separately, and you have two minutes in the national law. You have the floor, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó.
u2015-11-02-225	Thank you very much, thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and I promise you that I will not use the four minutes; today will be quite a long day ahead of us. I thank the opposition groups, of course, for their support for this proposal. Obviously, this is not about my personal business, nor about the personal case of the Together, but about the case of the Quaestor-harmed, and we have to deal with their problem. I would just like to note here and my fellow Member Hollik's comment that, as I said, the Constitutional Court's pleading does not have a suspensive effect, so this is not a substantive reference. On the other hand, I think it is a bit awkward politically, that if, on the one hand, they reap the political benefit of saying and believing ten million Hungarian citizens that everyone here is saved, everyone should calm down while not paying for the damage to these people and, on the other hand, remain silent in public. [[Zoltán Pride: In fact, they're lying! Dr. Zsolt Crew: They're lying!]] and the Hungarian population is not properly informed about this. Perhaps, let's say, you could start a billboard campaign similar to the one on the refugee issue, and say that we didn't pay for the Quaestor-damaged ones. If they were doing this, it would be a big deal, and then it could be said that everyone was properly informed, and that the government acted in a morally acceptable manner, because although it voted for this law, it could be known in advance that this would not work. [[Dr. László Szakács: We voted for it, but it should be implemented!]] And then it doesn't even work spectacularly after that. The victims are waiting for their money, and they can't do anything about it - unlike your friends, who were at the Quaestor, hand-to-handed in the money bag. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: In the money pot, not just in the money bag!]]
u2015-11-02-226	Thank you, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 2013 LIV on the implementation of reductions in energy prices on the world market. T/5921. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in a series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame, that is to say, Mr Bertalan Tóth. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, For a year, oil costs half as much on the world market as it did in the previous period. In January this year, I first proposed to give the Hungarian consumers the benefit of the reduction in energy prices on the world market, to give it to the Hungarian people, because the trading companies that are now almost exclusively owned by the state have cheaper access to energy on the world market than in the previous period, and the benefits of this must be given to the people. [[18.40]] At first they said that this was not true, the MSZP is bluffing again, because there is no profit in it, the currency loss takes away the amount resulting from the fall in world market prices. Then the time passed, prices on the world market did not change, but decreased further, and you claimed that this was only a temporary fall in prices, this could rise, and there is no realistic basis for giving this benefit to Hungarian consumers. Then it became increasingly apparent from various government statements that it was certainly beneficial for one of the state companies. First, Péter Szijjártó admitted at a journalistial background interview that the price of Russian gas, the gas purchased from Gazprom, was 40 percent lower than in the previous period. Lászlóné Németh also admitted in a background discussion that, indeed, in the order of ten or even a hundred billion, the Hungarian Natural Gas Dealer Zrt. would accumulate some kind of profit, but this would be a better place to cover, for example, the losses of the National Public Service Provider, not to provide this to Hungarian consumers. Then on a show Zoltán Kovács, a government spokesperson, acknowledged that he certainly has this money, but there is no reason why this money should go to Hungarian consumers. Then a study was increasingly leaked from various materials, which was also mentioned in Parliament, in the ministry led by János Lázár, that they were planning to reduce energy prices by 2017, and that various sources of this, such as the money for the destruction of the waste from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, are still being explored, and there is still the amount that increases from month to month, as prices on the international market have not changed, the price of energy on the international market is getting cheaper, and this benefit is increasing. The fact is that today Hungarian families, Hungarian energy consumers, have more expensive access to energy, gas, electricity, district heating than it costs. This is completely unacceptable, especially from you, who are the top fighters of this, so that Hungarian households have as little burden as possible. So it is increasingly true that the bill we have tabled has a right to exist, and you are increasingly recognising it, but you are saving this money in a hypocritical way, you are making up all kinds of reasons why you cannot give it to Hungarian consumers, and you are preparing for 2017, as an election banner, that now you can reduce the rent again, while this money is there. We demand that this money be given to Hungarian consumers now. The essence of our bill is to reduce prices by 20 per cent in gas prices and 10 per cent in electricity and district heat prices, up to an average consumption, which means that large consumers who can heat saunas or swimming pools in luxury villas should no longer receive additional discounts. And in vain, they justify that and what if the price rises. I still have this discount. This is where justice can be done, and it can be fair to cut prices, because those who consume them up to average consumption and as a small consumer get a higher discount. So once again, I would like to call on you to support the inclusion of this bill in this series of articles, because what is due is due. This is for Hungarian consumers, there is the money, don't save it, don't hide it, don't hide it, but deliver it to Hungarian energy consumers, households, Hungarian people, reduce the burden of Hungarian people, pay less, especially with the heating season starting. Don't sit on this money, give this to the Hungarian people now! Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-228	Thank you very much, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing, but with respect, I would like to ask my fellow socialists to allow the two-minute comment of Mr István Józsa, MEP MSZP, without delay.
u2015-11-02-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal, tabled by the MSZP, is very justified. Thus, the fall in energy prices on the world market, which means that oil prices have been practically half the price for years, such as before 2010, makes it absolutely justified that, in addition to the reduction in energy prices that you have implemented at the time under the heading of a reduction in the cost of electricity, an immediate price reduction of 20 per cent in electricity prices, 10 per cent in district heat prices, is carried out immediately. So we are asking not only to represent consumers in words, but when there is a realistic, objective possibility of purchasing prices on the basis of import prices, they are handing it over to consumers. I would even say that this proposal affects 80% of consumers up to average consumption. Your reduction in costs meant that the high rate of price savings fell to about 20 percent of consumers, the others benefited, but 80 percent received 20 percent of the total savings. We now propose that this additional 20% price reduction be ensured by the Hungarian Parliament until average consumption and do not save it, do not delay this price reduction because purchasing prices and world market prices justify this by far. So we're not asking for a transfer to the taxpayer. We are not asking to be transferred to the budget. We are merely saying that prices will reduce prices by 20-10-10 percent, in proportion to the decrease in purchasing prices. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-02-230	Thank you, Congressman Józsa. The next announced speaker was Mr Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-11-02-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are not opposed to a series of requests from the Jobbik faction. We also want these issues to be debated as often as possible in Parliament within the framework of the plenary session. It is clear that developments in energy prices on the world market have or should have a significant impact on domestic energy prices, and this is not always reflected in consumer prices. However, the events of the last few weeks do not fully support this, at least as far as the planned government measures are concerned, as there is a kind of nervous rush on the part of the government. They are thinking about how they could maintain the electricity price level that they are now providing to the public through the reduction of the rent if Brussels were to adopt rules on the reduction of the rent. The latest idea was that, based on leaked documents in the media, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant would be allowed to pay the amount to be paid to the Central Nuclear Fund, which would further reduce the cost of electricity produced there, and would also give up the benefits of MVM, which would be even cheaper to consumers, which is obvious that there could be a solution, but it is not necessarily profitable to play with nuclear safety at this level. If there is indeed room in world market prices for additional reductions, I believe that this should be done without delay. Indeed, this should not be used as a party policy tool for campaign purposes, but should be used for the benefit of Hungarian society. Therefore, in order to discuss the details of this at the Parliament stage, at the plenary stage, we will therefore support the application for inclusion in the series of articles. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-11-02-232	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if there are any other factions or independent Members who wish to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, Fidesz.
u2015-11-02-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We have a lying, uncredited and cynical proposal ahead of us. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Wow!]] I think that's pretty clear, because when the comrades were on the government, [[Zoltán Grimlock: Tell this not to us, but to the people.]] Between 2002-2010, the price of gas increased by 206 percent over these eight years. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You're lying!]] The price of electricity was 97 percent, and the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai gave it fifteen times in eight years. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How much discount did we give to the poor? How much did the poor pay?]] To increase the price of gas and electricity. [[18.50]] They did so in 2008 [[Zoltán Grimlock: How much did the poor pay?]] [[Zoltán Grimlock: How much did the poor pay?]] The price of electricity on the stock exchanges has dropped sharply. People paid the most in Hungary (Zoltán Gőgös: How much did the poor pay?) , and then, between 2008 and 2010, nine times the price increase was granted. In addition, when Gordon Bajnai took on the IMF loan, he undertook in an international contract with the IMF in September 2009 to withdraw gas price support from the people from 1 April 2010. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You're the ones who pulled him off!]] 2010! So when it was clear that they were going to fail course and that even a referendum could not change the international treaty. [[Zoltán Grimlock: All you had to do was keep it!]] So that's why we're saying that this is a lying, uncredited and cynical proposal, because when they had the chance, if we only looked at the two years when their government was in its last two years, when it fell, [[Zoltán Grimlock: Is it okay that there was a crisis?]] The price of gas and electricity on the stock exchanges fell sharply, then people in Hungary were paid by international companies that had been privatized a few years before. [[Zoltán Pride: Why don't you reduce it now? Prices are dropping steeply!]] the price of electricity and gas supplied. I would ask my fellow Members with great respect not to support such a lying, uncredited and cynical proposal. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Haughty: Tell the people that. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-02-234	Thank you, Mr Szilárd Németh. Finally, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-11-02-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I understand more and more that you call each other comrades in Fidesz. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There's a little more between you and me than there is between you and me.]] But regardless, your comment is lying, uncredited and cynical. That is because he deeply forgets and conceals the fact that precisely in 2009 the price of gas was reduced by 14-24 percent by the then government due to the fall in world market prices, and he deeply silences and forgets the fact that from 25 percent to 5 percent by the then parliament reduced the tax on district heating. It also forgets the fact that a price compensation scheme was operated by the then government, so until the average consumption, small consumers received very serious State aid. And even though you tell me what kind of contractual commitment you have made, you have so to say canceled the IMF agreement, this discount has been abolished. Tens of billions, I recall, have taken 80 billion forints out of the pockets of Hungarian consumers, and until 2012, energy prices have steadily increased. Therefore, it is worth insisting on factuality. Thus, when energy prices on the world market decreased, then governance was reduced in 2009. [[István Szilárd Németh's intervention.]] The same is exactly what we are asking of you, because the price of energy has been low for more than a year, and for more than a year it has been possible for this to go to Hungarian consumers. That's what we're demanding. Now is the time. In a fair way, because it is fair that there should be an average consumption, and in a sustainable way, by supporting building energy investments, building insulation, window replacement and heating modernisation, which is also denied to Hungarian households. Well, that's the cynical, that's the liar, and that's the hypocrite! I would ask my fellow Members to support our proposal.
u2015-11-02-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Group of the LMP has proposed that the Parliament decide on CXXII of 2009 on the more efficient operation of publicly owned companies. T/5276 on the amendment of Law T/5276 on the establishment of a general wage ceiling. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in a series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, the rapporteur within a five-minute time frame.
u2015-11-02-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We were not surprised when the majority of the Economic Commission for Government did not vote for the inclusion of our proposal in the series of proposals. The aim of the proposal is to introduce a general wage ceiling for publicly owned companies, which clearly goes against government policy. As we have confronted you in several rounds, in 2010, the government promised to put an end to state overspending, eliminate face toaster bonuses, and reduce unacceptablely high management salaries. What did we see compared to that? The government did something different when it came to government. Not only has the government apparatus been greatly expanded, the payment ceiling of state-owned executives has now been raised more than twice recently. According to the new rules, the gross basic salary of state-owned companies can increase to up to HUF 5 million; this applies to public companies in the financial sector. The salary of the executives of energy companies could increase to 4 million, and for the other CEOs, the wage ceiling will be 3 million. Since this is only the basic wage, and this can be followed by a 20% premium plus extra wage and other benefits, the total amount can reach up to 10 million per month. Mr András Tállai has been able to exchange ideas on this issue several times in Parliament. We've heard a variety of arguments from him. He referred to the fact that the country is performing better and that the performance of the state's executives is involved in this. He also said that it creates an unfair situation and that there is a great difference between public and market payments. It has also been argued that the emigration of good professionals must be prevented and therefore low management salaries must be increased. I ask: if the economy is doing so well, then why doesn't the government first raise the wages of those who need it the most? Why do you increase the wage gap between the public employee employed for minimum wage and the public company manager to such a great extent? Is it really 50 times or even a hundred times less worth the work of the minimum wage worker than that of the still responsible state manager? We believe that such a difference is neither justified nor fair. There are about 200,000 employees in the public sector who earn minimum wage or guaranteed minimum wage, i.e. income below the minimum wage. Nearly a third of the public sector! The civil servant payroll has been frozen for the seventh year, the civil servants and government officials' salary base is still only HUF 38 650. You've been doing all kinds of extra tricks for years, just so you don't have to give social workers a real raise. They do the same to health workers. This selective wage-raising policy is part of a government policy aimed at breaking up society and increasing income disparities. It's about getting rich for the few, slipping off a lot of people, resulting in a handful of rich and living under a minimum of 4 million. The May Other is Politics, on the other hand, the party to reducing social differences, the fair distribution of income. We see that it is not only in the interest of social justice, but also in the interests of the Hungarian economy, that the gap between certain groups of society should be reduced, and that no one should have to make a living of less than the minimum amount of living. Our proposal was also made in the spirit of this. A benefit ceiling of 20 times the minimum wage at any time would be introduced for all employees and employees of publicly owned companies. We ask for support for the inclusion of our proposal in the series. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-02-238	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member in a two-minute time frame. I would first give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing, but instead, because they are not present, I give the floor first to Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, notary. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You will certainly remember the size and the category of payments of HUF 2 million for the faceless severance payments. They remember when they had a 98 percent tax burden on them. We are now facing the fact that payments in the financial sector are worth HUF 5 million, in the energy sector 4 and in other strategically important sectors of HUF 3 million. [[19.00]] As has been said in the presentation, no, this is not the whole, the global, but even in addition to this, even these rates can be doubled. If you have declared that it is unspeakable, then I do not know what kind of use the Secretary of State will say to the motion to reduce the minimum wage of HUF 5 million by 20 times the minimum wage. I would suggest that the government take into account the reasons which the author has said, even because we have been saying for a long and long time that Hungary does not need to raise its income level there, but in the case of those who are in a very low income range, they are looking for their income at the level of the minimum wage, minimum wage or guaranteed minimum wage. You know, they're the ones in whom you didn't raise your salary, but you raised the burden on both employers and employees, and the pleasure of that is that the government is the beneficiary and not these people. One word, as a hundred, must raise income, pay, and the state must withdraw in its greed, the state must give up its greed. People have to, people who live their lives under pressure, earn more, not those who earn millions anyway. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-02-240	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I give the floor in two minutes to Congressman András Schiffer, head of the LMP faction.
u2015-11-02-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Yes, the 2010 cycle began with Fidesz crashing into unscrupulously imaginative incomes, which were driven out of BKV and other public-owned companies during the false left-wing governments. A 98-percent tax has been imposed on this, and we have indicated that a better way of recovering the unscrupulous proceeds would otherwise be the rule of law. You introduced a 98 percent tax at the time, which ended with the fact that the woman who was famous for the BKV scandal - I don't remember her name, by the way - thanked her nicely and well, brought her money home, but a number of honest people, civil servants, child protection professionals, social workers and civil servants could pay the 98 percent tax. This whole thing was also a habony Barba trick, and it wasn't about you trying to fix anything from the omissions of the past era. Now we see, not only that there are no brazen severance payments, but you are the ones who make the bed so that public-owned companies can pay the headsmen as much as the government is not ashamed of. The argument that this would be necessary because the competition sector is so competitive that good professionals leave public companies is simply a lie. You know perfectly well that there is no country in the world where the public sector can keep pace with the wages of the competition sector. Where you can earn more, say, in a bank or at an IT company, you can, of course, earn more in the government sector, but the two are not in a thank-you relationship. What we're talking about is that while you keep the wages of ordinary people artificially low, while you kick the public employees out, and then humiliating them for hunger as public workers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Get them back to their own kissers, and for the fidesz clients, they're pushing millions, that's what they're talking about. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-242	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I'm going to ask if there are any other factions who want to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I can't see. Then I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-11-02-243	I would like to thank my fellow Members for their supporting proposals, and we trust that the Parliament will vote on them and put them on the agenda.
u2015-11-02-244	Thank you, Congresswoman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the transparency of the state security past and on the amendments to the law necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the possession of certain public offices. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in a series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to András Schiffer, LMP representative, group leader, the rapporteur in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-11-02-245	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, For the ninth time, if I count it correctly, I'll bring it to the House. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Tenth.]] But my fellow Member Bárándy will correct me, and for the tenth time I will bring to the House the bill on public disclosure. This proposal differs from the first ones in that it is not just about naturity, it is also a Lustration Bill, and there is also a part of it where we initiate the Parliament to order the government to act at Vladimir Orbán Putin so that the Hungarian-related secret service documents created during the Soviet occupation can be researched for Hungarian researchers and Hungarian people. In relation to the latter, I would like to note that 2015 Gulág Memorial Year, so we also owe to the victims, those who were taken to the Málenki robots, to those who left their families for a long time and to those who were killed with Soviet state security aid in the coming decades in Hungary or even away from Hungary, that at least this symbolic gesture will be performed by the Hungarian Parliament. I am making this proposal constantly, for the fourth year now, because the double game Fidesz is playing on this issue is untenable. In the past, it is not that we are curious about the fact that various unfortunate people who have been blackmailed have reported exactly who, even though we have the right to know. I am arguing with you there that, of course, it is a terrible tragedy when someone is blackmailed, say, in '57 in Kistarcsa and therefore forced to report it, and then, after decades, it came to light that he had such a secret life. I, on the other hand, trust you in the sound moral judgment of the Hungarian people, so that the Hungarian people can appreciate such published facts in a sober manner. But that's not really interesting. The interesting thing is who stood on the bridge of command, who were not blackmailed, but voluntarily, singing into the bond of communist state security, who, where appropriate, directed the services from the administrative department of the party centre, or from the leading posts of the Ministry of Interior, and who were the chiefs who served in the State Security Networks in the '80s, and then, let us see a miracle, they became the first privatization advisor, they were the ones who carried the state wealth away, and the last 25 years were not enough for the Hungarian electorate, when he entered the polling booth, to see exactly what kind of power, economic interest the individual political forces and political actors involved. That's why I'm bringing this case here bored and bored. I would very much ask my fellow Member Vas not to bring this up, because we know this song, that the poor poor blackmailed snitches must be protected by Fidesz. To the good health of Fidesz, if you want to protect them. I told you before, there are obviously good reasons to respect the privacy of these people; my bill, I indicate, respects personality rights. Hungary, the Hungarian people, have the right to know the hidden past, of course. We have the right to see exactly how communist state security worked, but we have the right to see how the present works. We have the right to see how political, economic and media change worked in the troubled years of 1989-1990 to quote their prime minister. It is precisely our right to see that those who sat in the political elite after 1989, who are the delegates, who have manipulated political processes, who have converted that information advantage into material capital after 1989, that they were various agents of the secret services, were intelligence officers, say, with excellent foreign connections. It's been 25 years, why aren't we allowed to know? And one more thing: this bill, like the previous two, also includes a provision that the National Remembrance Committee chosen by you, selected by the Fidesz principle, should, within a closed deadline, submit a report on the fact that from among the members of the political elite, who were Members, Ministers, Mayors, who were those involved in state security. [[19.10]] What is your problem with this initiative? And what is your problem with at least symbolically pulling a cesura between democracy and non-democracy after 25 years, and saying that the senior officials of the pre-democracy period cannot be officials of democracy? The change is that we now want to extend this rule to prime minister advisors as well. It's not a coincidence. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-246	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Now one representative per group of Members has the opportunity to state the group's position in two minutes. First, I give the floor to the speaker who has been announced, Mr President Novák, right-hander.
u2015-11-02-247	Dear Parliament, The governments of the last 25 years have sabotaged the discovery of the state security past, the knowledge of documents, and hinder the work of researchers. They defy society's moral judgment, instead of the victims, they sided with the unsubs. The screening judges left criminal loopholes, escape routes, the guilty didn't apologize, the victims didn't receive moral compensation, no information compensation. The state security past is today an advantage for former professional staff and subservient network personnel, and Fidesz-KDNP has built them into its power background. It provides them with a promotion, for example, László Tasnádi III/II has promoted him directly to State Secretary, giving others a medal and a good pension. The Fidesz-KDNP has always opposed clarification of state security issues; Viktor Orbán, the former social contact of military counterintelligence, whose father-in-law, István Lévai, gave in to honest Hungarian mid-parasts under the cover of the ÁVH Lenkei, will never give way to such well-founded legislative proposals, because then he should give up the professional state security officers and a great number of networkers who were incorporated into his background power. This bill would make a radical change. For example, the concept of a network person is defined in such a way that former agents cannot win lawsuits against historians in advance and smiling as before. The objective of the proposal to be supported is, among other things, to achieve a gradual Internet publication of data on state security documents and magnetic tapes, as we know well that the current government has encrypted most of the state security past by 2060, if not untruncated, or at least undistorted, magnetic tapes. Unfortunately, members of the National Remembrance Committee, composed of only Fidesz members, can look into these, but this is unacceptable, and we therefore propose that this proposal be included in the series. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-248	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the MSZP representative, Congressman Gergely Bárándy for two minutes.
u2015-11-02-249	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The way I'm starting this now is traditionally, as in the past, this is supported by the MSZP faction. I have promised the last time that we will also support the tenth anniversary proposal. Well, I would like to announce to you that we are keeping this promise right now, and we really support this tenth anniversary proposal for the LMP. I would have sat about here if Szilárd Németh hadn't made that witty remark, as far as addressing it, and addressed it to us. I would just like to say that, as I look around the opposition factions, I see that there is not very much who, in any opposition faction, would be affected by this, if Mr Schiffer's proposal were to be implemented. However, I remember in the previous term, in almost the same subject, which Fidesz submitted and accepted, the Fundamental Law, if I remember correctly, in the context of Amendment 4, where, by any other way, non-leftist press organisations, Fidesz representatives who were indeed involved in pro-state membership, party membership or other kind of membership. And roughly, when I think about the number of these names, and how many more of them are in the Fidesz faction, it can be said that these people are still found in the Fidesz fraction in a number of opposition factions. In other words, I am not surprised that the Fidesz faction and the KDNP faction did not support such a proposal now, in the future or in the past. But that's what we do. I think it's better late than never. We'll do it on the government, believe me, Congressman Novak. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-250	Thank you very much. The next two-minute opinion is Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2015-11-02-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I, too, would like to argue and persuade all four or five pro-government Members present, who are curious about this matter and this subject, and thought it was worth sitting here in order to talk about the past. However, I would like to talk not only about the past, but also about the present, because the question has often been raised as to how our daily lives, our lives today, are affected by former communism, the maintenance of the former system. I wonder why Fidesz and KDNP want to hide these files at this level, so they don't want to talk about it. And I also understand that if they were involved among the politicians with their gray faces, perhaps not only at the State Secretary level, but also at the parliamentary level, and that is why they do not want this to come out, but that would not rule out the possibility of at least discussing it. You would not rule out the possibility that Parliament might discuss this issue in a normal general debate, and you would be able to defend the arguments that you have to give here in two minutes about all sorts of poor snitches who have done what they had to do under duress. And even if we had the general debate after a series of subjects, you would always have the chance, given the majority in the government, to dismiss this proposal. But let's hear your arguments abundantly. 'Cause whatever argument they've given us, they haven't said anything that wouldn't be easily disproved, but every argument that's against finally revealing the past and seeing what it has to do with the present, what we're seeing now, from ground privatization to your political culture, has had what effect on all of this. Unfortunately, I continue to believe that the change of regime has not been completed and will not be completed until this symbolic element of the former communist past is revealed and the system of this whole service is known. The change of regime is waiting for you, and you are preventing it from happening in any way, although it is obvious that their disappearance from Parliament will also help a great deal. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, in two minutes.
u2015-11-02-253	Thank you very much for the floor. I believe that there has been agreement between the parliamentary parties for a long time that we have the right to know the past. The debate between the parliamentary parties is about how we can do this. Fidesz-KDNP Government under Article U of the Fundamental Law (3) [[Sallai R. Benedict: Again! Which one?]] set up the National Remembrance Committee, followed by the 2013 CCXLI. in detail in law [[Forebod Novak: What coolness!]] then in February 2014 the members were elected to the National Remembrance Committee [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There was also a conference yesterday.]] and the National Remembrance Committee will probably report on its nearly one-and-a-half-year activities at the Justice Committee next Monday. Unfortunately, it is not my fault that you wish to disclose the data in another way. They don't want the National Remembrance Committee to set up a completely different committee, but we're used to that. You do not like the Constitutional Court in which we have elected members, and you do not like the Budget Council that we have chosen members for. [[Only the Fidesz!]] So to criticize the part of the system that applies to the particular organization, we're used to it, that's practically four and a half years ago. I urge my fellow Members to attend next Monday's Justice Committee meeting, and then you can see what kind of activity the National Remembrance Committee has done. Thank you very much. [[We'll be there, we'll put it on the calendar. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Speak to them! Sallai R. Benedict:]]
u2015-11-02-254	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to the author if you wish to speak. You have two minutes. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader. [[19.20]]
u2015-11-02-255	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the opposition contributions. And, yes, my fellow Member Bárándy is right, we want to hear names. We want to hear the names of those who served as state security officers, we don't know exactly what they did before 89, but we do know that they were involved in the destruction of state assets. And continuing with what my fellow Member Sallai said: it is about not knowing how deformed the current political-social culture has been in original sin over the last 25 years. It may not be a coincidence that after 25 years, on the eve of November 4th, we are still debating this, and perhaps it is not a coincidence that after such 25 years, when the simple man remembers theft, fraud and lies about politics, the new democracy. Mr Vas, my fellow Member, you have not understood anything of what we have said here, whether I or my predecessor Novak. [[Dr. Vas Imre: You didn't understand what I said.]] My fellow Member, I will even allow the National Remembrance Committee to do something good. I also talked about, and answer this with your vote tomorrow, for example, when we say that the Committee of National Remembrance chosen by you on the basis of the Fidesz principle should be given the task of putting a white book on the table of Hungarians by 31 December 2017 on the table of Hungarians by everyone who held a public authority post-October 23, 1989. Let's be clear about who came into Parliament in the '90s on behalf of Communist state security. Let us be clear about who has served as the link capital of the old communist state security in the administration of new democracy. You want to say no to that, too. They will vote against this proposal on the eve of 4 November. Shame on you!
u2015-11-02-256	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to open the public contracts on public spending H/5795. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Gyüre, the rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-11-02-257	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In our view, this is a very important parliamentary proposal that I have tabled with my fellow Member Gábor Staudt, because it is about making public the public contracts on spending public money. Not so long ago, Jobbik held a thematic day here in Parliament, when all our contributions were basically about how corruption undermines the functioning of the state, how much it undermines the trust that people throw into the government, throws into Parliament, and every person holding public authority. And here, let us also talk about the municipalities, because they also belong here. That is why we consider transparency and non-corruption to be very important. That is exactly what this parliamentary resolution would require. We are referring to three important things in this proposal; firstly, the obligation and automatic disclosure. Both words are very important to be mandatory and to automatically publish these contracts. And we also propose that the validity of a contract be a requirement for disclosure, without the contract being invalid, and that anyone later can rely on it without a deadline, so that the contract is invalid, as it can be a hotbed of corruption. So one of the important points would be that it should be valid. The other important point is that it should be included in the new civil code, as it was in the old civil code, so that the objective of public money cannot be hidden by reference to business secrets, where it has gone, where it has gone, what contracts have been concluded, how the state manages public funds, public funds, how the government manages. You can't hide this. And the third part is that there is an internet interface available to all Hungarian citizens, which, let's say, within a 30-day deadline, when the contract is signed, it should be mandatory for them to appear on the Internet News Portal, and it should contain all the essentials, so it should not be such that the amount is not put there, the essential points of the contract will not be placed there, because it is a breach of someone's business secrets - so it should not be like this. The old civil code was quite clear, and we believe that the old one is a more advanced indicator in this regard, since it was intended to ensure transparency. The old, 1959 IV. Act No. 6 stated that it is not a business secret as regards the use of public and municipal budgets or European Community aid or the management of state and municipal assets. It was in the old Ptk., but unfortunately, the new civil code was left out for some reason. It is also regulated in certain places, since the Fundamental Law and the Freedom of Information Act also affect this subject. More importantly, Article VI of the Fundamental Law. Article 39 (2), which provides that all persons have the right to access data of public interest and Article 39 (2), which states that each organisation holding public funds shall be required to account for its public finance management in the public domain, public funds and national assets shall be treated in accordance with the principles of transparency and purity of public life, and data on public money and national assets shall be public interest. This is very important, which should also appear in the Civil Code, and there should be a validity requirement for disclosure, because, as I said, corruption is a hotbed for transparency. And I think that if something doesn't get on the website on its own, it doesn't go public, people start to think, they think that it didn't come up because someone's business was disproportionately concluded, that contract is too expensive, that someone is paying 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 percent of it. That's what people think. I believe that it is also in the crucial interest of a government to ensure that everything is transparent so that corruption is not raised in his case. Unfortunately, we have seen that in the last five years, legislation has been constantly passed here in Parliament, which could be carried out through the two-thirds majority of four years of Fidesz, which indeed further strengthens corruption. It is necessary that this proposal for a decision be adopted in order to make public money finally more transparent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would ask the groups to indicate who they want to present the group's position. First, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group.
u2015-11-02-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have heard several times recently that Jobbik boasted that the government is following Jobbik's position. And I can now say that we are very pleased that Jobbik has discovered the LMP proposal, which we have submitted to the House three times, with the exception that, not only as a proposal for a decision, but in a specifically codified text, we have put it before the House three times, so that it can be easily searched not only for public procurement, land lease procedures, concession procedures, but also for not only for the contract, but also for all tender materials to be available on the Internet after the deadline. What is in this resolution proposal is entirely in line with the direction of the proposals that the LMP has already placed on the Parliament's table. I would like to ask my fellow Members in the direction that, in the unexpected event that Fidesz might include this in a series of articles, amendments will be possible to be tabled, not only to make the contracts public. The public is a deterrent to shams, thieves if not only the contract, but all competing tender materials are available. We have proposed earlier that there should be a condition of validity, in line with your proposal, not only the publicity of contracts, but also the full publicity of all competing offers. [[19.30]] You can't refer to a business secret. Those who have once decided to make a profit by doing business with the State or with a municipality should bear the ode that the state represents all ten million citizens, all taxpayers, and therefore all Hungarian taxpayers are entitled to be interested in the content of the offers. Thank you very much. Of course, we support the inclusion of the proposal for a decision. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-260	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. The position of the MSZP is presented by Mr Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-11-02-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, When we learned so-called social crime formations at university, and we learned how to start from co-conspiracy when two people agree with each other, then there is group crime, followed by, say, organized crime, then a new concept came into view, the concept of criminal organization, and then we learned about corruption - a little bit over the world of criminology - that in Italy, where the example of this school was realized, how organized crime could have reached a level that the mafia could be integrated into the political top management, so that, let's say, even the prime minister had a relationship, let's say, with the leaders of Cosa Nostra. Well, Russia and Hungary have achieved an even more advanced level when the Prime Minister himself is the godfather, and the whole state operates in such a way that it is practically state corruption, organized corruption managed by the state that appears. This is even higher than when certain criminal organizations are integrating someone into the public administration and into the top levels of politics. In Hungary, unfortunately - I repeat, in addition to Russia, it may be possible to say that other countries like this - this is what has happened: centrally control corruption, centrally figure out how to steal money, whether it is the traffikmoty, whether it is the land, whether it is the private pension fund savings or anything else, such as the funds for culture, so that I may mention something about today as well. If we experience this phenomenon, then a opposition party, a political party, has only one option: to support any proposal that hinders and tries to curb this kind of corruption. We have, and will have, many of these proposals, and if anyone submits them, we will support them, including the present proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-262	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I now give the floor to Mr. President Novak, Jobbik.
u2015-11-02-263	Dear Parliament, I'm gonna give you a taste-to-blood XXI. We have a proposal of the century, which, as an Internet-friendly party, may not be modest if I even say that Jobbik naturally supports as the most important social force in the fight against political crime. Let me give you a concrete example of why these public spending contracts need to be made public on the Internet. When I learned from a written question only about the amazing price at which one of Lajos Simicska's advertising companies would be entrusted with a kind of government propaganda - one of many of them - I could see that despite the fact that this advertising company was entrusted with a public procurement procedure without publication of a notice for multiple market prices, the D.A. rejected our complaint that the mere fact that an order seems to be for multiple market prices is not a suspicion, this is not a suspicion of a crime, for which even the investigation was denied in this sense, and because of Fidesz's amendment of the law, there is no appeal to the whistle-blower. I therefore think that we need wider social control, beyond, of course, strict changes in the prosecution's office, especially personal changes, of course, in order to settle these crimes. But one of the first steps is to provide access to the data of a broad society and to find the path of the national property that has been abducted, because thanks to the Internet, such people could dig into this - we can think of investigative journalists, but also enthusiastic Internet users - who could reveal these crimes if the prosecution did not do so, then Hungarian citizens could reveal these crimes. However, for this to happen, the first thing we need is the inclusion of this proposal in the series of subjects, which Jobbik therefore naturally supports. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-264	Thank you, Congressman Novak. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre in two minutes, Fidesz.
u2015-11-02-265	Thank you very much for the floor. In my opinion, the submission of this bill is based on a mistake, because, indeed, and my fellow Members are right about that, the text they object to is not in the new civil code, because that is not how the codification committee presented it to the government, and the government presented it to Parliament, but in the Act on Information Self-determination, the old Ptk. its provisions have been transposed, so it is only a legal matter that this is now contained in the civil code or in the information self-determination law. The other issue raised by our fellow Member is that he would oblige the Government to create a single data system. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the information self-determination Act 37/A. and 37/B. §2 of the Act refers to the central electronic register of data of general interest and to the single system for seeking public data, so that what I would like to oblige the Government by a parliamentary decision also exists under the current law. It has also been suggested here that we not only publish the contracts, but also all public tenders. I believe that only one who has not yet read a single public tender is saying this because, for example, there are multiple requirements for certain qualifications, certain traineeships, which must, of course, be certified by a professional worker's certificate or a university degree, which, of course, includes the date of birth of the non-public actor. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So we'd be releasing data that obviously can't be made public. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-02-266	Thank you, Congressman. The author, Csaba Gyüre, has the opportunity to respond in two minutes.
u2015-11-02-267	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your comments, and I am pleased that the opposition has taken a unanimous position here in Parliament with a view to dissuading corruption from this country. On the other hand, according to Imre Vas's comment, it turns out that you do not comply with your own laws at the time, because we hear it on the news every day, we read in the newspaper, the media, the Internet media and everywhere that the court once again obliges the government to release this data, to release that data, to account for this public money, to account for that travel abroad. If you believe that this is all in the legislation - you said, Mr Vas Imre, that all of this exists under the laws currently in force - then you do not comply with these laws, therefore, because otherwise all of this would be brought to the public, then civil lawsuits should not continue to be brought against you in this matter. Here's the main problem: you don't follow the law! But in my view, it would be important to regulate the civil code, and it would also be necessary for applications, as my fellow Member Schiffer said, to make sure that they can be known in all cases, and it is very important that those who apply for municipal, state money, so public wealth, our money, people's money, do undertake to disclose all the data of his contract, his application, and thus also to shake off the appearance of corruption. It is also very important what has been said from my fellow Member, Barándy, that the merger between the state, the economy and the mafia organisations, the merger of these three things, politics, public authorities and mafia organisations is the most serious corruption. That's what we need to get rid of this country. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-268	Thank you, Congressman Gyure. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons follows a series of steps. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. [[19.40]] The government referral is T/6631. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] It says no. So in the end, if you wish to address it, you will have a ten-minute timeframe. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first Imre Vas, Fidesz.
u2015-11-02-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, T/6631. the 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons. The purpose of the bill amending the Act is to provide for a one-off additional deadline by 1 March 2016, which may be initiated by the deadline for the opening of the debt settlement procedure. The authorisation of the additional deadline will allow those who have already exceeded the deadlines under the provisions of the current law to initiate the debt settlement procedure. However, the MSZP initiated the continuation of the proposal of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs, which is why I applied for the speech in the first place. The amendment proposal on the subject is contradictory because it is based on its justification that the eviction should not take place in November of the year, in comparison with which it would provide for a further deferral of the execution and non-execution of pawn sales by bank settlement laws. The author of the amending proposal therefore confuses the enforcement measures for the sale of immovable property seized in the enforcement procedure with the post-sale eviction. I therefore draw attention to the fact that both the Banking Clearing Act and the Debt Settlement Act and the Law on Court Enforcement contain mutually based provisions that give debtors sufficient time to prepare for their housing, even in cases where the debtor decides not to initiate debt settlement within the prescribed time limit, in this case even at the additional time limit, the implementations on real estate assets will continue. However, if the debtor initiates the debt settlement, the enforcement acts, including the sale of real estate, and the sale of collateral outside enforcement, shall no longer be allowed to continue. That's what private protection means, among other things. Under private bankruptcy, enforcement procedures are suspended and enforcement procedures are permanently terminated as a result of successful debt settlement. That is why the representative of the government said in the parliamentary general debate on the legislative proposal on 22 October that it is in the interest of the debtor to initiate private bankruptcy protection, because the procedure is far better for him than the continuation of the enforcement procedure. At the same time, let me mention that the law on judicial enforcement is 182/A. In all cases, the winter eviction moratorium laid down in Section 2 of this Article applies, so even credit-paying families who would otherwise be able to be evicted would not be on the street. This goes from 1 December to 1 March each year, doesn't it? If the MSZP was serious about the amendments submitted, they only showed serious professional incompetence, but if they were aware of their slippage, they wanted the population to be misinformed and frightened. None of this is a commendable act. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the original bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-270	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. The next speaker is Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2015-11-02-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We agree with the amendment tabled by my socialist colleagues Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs, which would prevent winter evictions. The amendment of the Law of the Minister of Justice pushes the deadline for entry into private bankruptcy by linking evictions to the failure of the previous deadline. So anyone who runs out of the current deadline will be evicted on the 61st day following the expiry of the deadline. With this, the government will allow families to be put on the street with winter. This is a profoundly reprehensible move. We've given our opinions on your private pipe a lot of times, and I wouldn't go back to the details of that. However, the problem is huge, which is supported by the housing report of Habitat for Humanity in the past few days. The report shows that housing costs did not decrease in 2014, and that we have not made any progress in preventing indebtedness. I quote: "The cost of housing has not been significantly reduced, despite the government's announced reduction in overhead costs. As a result, families are highly indebted. In 2014, nearly a quarter of the Hungarian population had some kind of backlog - debt, rent and utility debt - more than two and a half times the EU average. The proportion of people with debt repayments and rent backs increased by 7.5 percent compared to 2013. Important and consistent with the opinion of the LMP so far, there are also important findings in the report on the government's unilateral, unacceptable aid policy. I quote again:. The most faithful impression of the guiding principle of Hungarian housing policy is the distribution of central public expenditure for housing, which has led to a background in improving the housing situation of the poor and to measures that are more favourable to the better way. In 2014, as well, medium-class and property promotion forms were the main contributors to the central budget's housing expenditure. In 2014, too, there was much less funding to support those in a socially targeted housing crisis than to those in a better position. Two thirds of public housing spending did not help households in need, social, housing and income situations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The organization sees the fundamental problem of housing in Hungary and its solution in what the LMP pointed out in many of its speeches. I quote again: the number of affordable housing facilities is very low, and in particular cheap apartments are missing. About 11 percent of the Hungarian population live in a rental apartment, one of the lowest rates in Europe. More than 1.5 million people still live in housing poverty and about 30 thousand live in their most extreme form of homelessness. While it would be crucial to develop a functioning and extensive social housing system, the necessary municipal housing stock has continued to decline. Only more than half of the municipal dwellings and 1.5 percent of the total housing stock are rented on a social basis. So these are not only said by the LMP, but also by an organisation that is doing serious research in housing every year. How long do we have to wait for the government to finally take the housing crisis seriously and take action to address it? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-02-272	Thank you, Congresswoman. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether anyone else wishes to speak in the remaining timeframes. I don't see any contact... [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Yes!]] Then let's get a signal. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. [[19.50]]
u2015-11-02-273	My apologies, Mr. President, I thought I'd been given a speech. Thank you very much for the floor, and I would also respond to Imre Vas. I don't know, Mr. Congressman, but the fact that we voted for this law this summer and it was only two months after its introduction that it was decided that it had to be amended because it didn't work, the government's open admission that this law had been broken, even though we had said before that it would not work and what is the fault of this law in principle. But we know that you will never admit anything that you have failed to do, you will change it every two months, and you will not take into account the amendments, the initiatives that the opposition is taking, even with a positive intention. I can only repeat what was said before me. One and a half million people live in housing poverty today in Hungary and about 30 thousand homeless people. Today, in Hungary, the small number of social housing units leads to the high cost of housing costs: Hungarians spend a quarter of their income - beating the EU average - for such purposes and a quarter of their revenues. The worst were those in market-priced leases, they spend 40 forints on average, 40 per cent, but their children are also closely followed by single educators. The cost reduction has slightly improved, and they know what a tiny animal it is, very tiny - in this picture. It was the middle fifth of society, but they could only expect a 3.2 percent reduction in the cost of the overhead. 25 percent of the population have some kind of backlog, 25 percent, which is two and a half times the EU average. Under the poverty threshold, this percentage is already 60 percent, with which only Greece can be prevented by Hungary in the European Union. Less public utility debt was held last year than in 2013, but still the utility service was shut down in 108 thousand households, in 108 thousand households. On the other hand, the proportion of people in debt repayment or rent increased, while by the end of 2014 there were 182 thousand non-performing mortgage loans. Well, that's good, Congressman Vas Imre, if you're happy. And then I'll tell you what happened to this law. It has also been said in the debate - it is true that we have not heard an exact number from the government side - that a hundred people have not initiated the private bankruptcy procedure, and a hundred have not asked for it. This was an incredibly low application compared to what is being spent this year: 626 million forints can be spent this year after the introduction of the private bankruptcy for education and recruitment of people. I also told you in my keynote speech that we spend millions of forints a day that we can't even help 100 people. If we had distributed this HUF 626 million, we would have been able to pay off the entire debt of over 100 people, but this failed. 140,000 families are unable to pay - now between 140 and 180 thousand in particular - and 34 percent of non-performing mortgage lenders are worth less than their debt, and from now on they can't turn to help. So it is easy to assume that tens of thousands of families can really claim private bankruptcy, but it must be asked, and in the debate we asked why they did not turn to private bankruptcy. KDNP said that people didn't turn because the banks were to blame, the media was to blame. [[Dr. Imre Vas: The MSZP!]] Because he was communicating with people against private bankruptcy, but they don't say that the law itself is wrong, and that's why people can't use it. We could talk here about what process people have to go through at the banks, what forms to fill out, and only one thought: it might be interesting when the family starts counting the toys of the children and staking out the value of the toys, because let's say this should also be mentioned in the initiative. Then we can talk about what else you've done so that you can't help the families. On 1 March, housing support and debt management were terminated, which may be granted by the municipality at the address of municipal aid if it can provide. We know very well the situation of the municipalities, and we also know how many people have been excluded from this form of support, since municipalities often have no tax revenue. The former, the housing support was used by 450,000 people, they received an average of HUF 3870 per month, more than was meant for them - more. They introduced the family home-building discount instead of the Socpol. CSOK can be required for the renovation and purchase of a previously used property, for smaller land areas, even with one child in a larger amount than before, but it is a strict condition that one party should have a social security status of 180 days, thus dropping out of the population, beneficiaries of aid and undeclared and casual workers. Government steps to help foreign exchange lenders - forinting, settlement law, debt brake - generally indicate that they have helped a narrow, better-positioned group of foreign exchange lenders and not those they should have helped. What could help many people with housing problems: improving energy efficiency is also an important strategic objective for the EU, but Hungary has not transposed the commitments made by 2020 into its own legal order. We have already said several times this summer and now in the debate, and we have initiated that not only those with foreign currency credit - the biggest debt to the Hungarian population is exactly the debt of utility bills - can turn around, but you have swept all our initiatives off the table just as they have wiped out the current one. The institution of the private bankruptcy will continue to exist in Hungary, so to speak, only Hungarian families will not be able to obtain it, because the law is wrong, it cannot help those who should receive help very urgently. Thus, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support this initiative, this law, this amendment. What we wanted was for you to finally consider the ruling party, that what we're putting in, we're trying to help people with good intentions, but it seems like this world hasn't come yet to work for people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-02-274	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate; he has a ten-minute timeframe.
u2015-11-02-275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I thank my fellow Members for their active participation in this debate; Mr Vas Imre has presented the reasons for the amendment. My colleague, Erzsébet Schmuck, unfortunately... [[Erzsébet Schmuck stands by the back benches and raises his hand.]] You're in the room, thank you very much. So, indeed, this eviction and enforcement moratorium, as Mr Vas Imre mentioned, exists side by side, and the eviction moratorium is still in place, so there was no need for this supported amendment proposal, i.e. the amendment proposal you supported. Although the Member has taken over the whole tenement and social issues in her contribution, or at least a good part, but that is not the purpose of this amendment, it cannot, of course, deal with this situation. This certainly applies to family bankruptcies whose practice has not yet developed in Hungary. Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: does the law not work? He also mentioned in his own speech that there were numerous measures taken by the government - the introduction of the exchange rate barrier, the end-payment, the forinting, the foreign exchange law, the cases of the Fairbank Act, or the introduction of the National Asset Manager - which helped very, very many debtors, and in fact in recent years these institutions have indicated that the State and the Government are helping debtors. [[20.00]] Obviously, a new institution on which they do not know specifically, although it has already been introduced in most parts of the Union, with the exception of four Member States, belongs to the rule of law, they need to have further knowledge of it, and the creation of the constraints that would really force them to live with it has not yet occurred. It has already been said in the previous debate that employees of the family bankruptcy service will be available in government offices in the future and will lecture those in need, so it is not up to the unilateral information or dissuadement of banks to use this legal institution. It is enough to think only of the debate that has arisen with the banks, which has mentioned an unbearable administrative burden to fill out such a form, which is indeed a form, but there are pages that are negative, so it does not have to be completed in fact, and by far it is not the 600 or hundreds of pages obligation that they have said, but the number of pages that need to be turned over is to a maximum of 67 pages. Non-performing mortgage loans have also been mentioned. Here, too, we need to emphasise how these mortgage loans were created, during which period, and it was practically not the regulatory system of this government that brought this problem to the back of the Hungarian population, but we are the ones who are trying to solve this in several steps and have made countless efforts in recent years. With foreign exchange loans, only the wealthy benefited, and the forinting: this was a strong exaggeration, because the forinting was for everyone except those who refused, and they could do so. In summary, I would like to reply to what has been said from the rapporteur's point of view, thank you very much for your active participation and for your support for this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-276	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. And now, Honourable Parliament, the 2011 LXXXV on the Environmental Product Award will follow. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/6632. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[Zsolt V. Németh says no.]] State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh indicates that he does not, so at the end he will have a ten-minute time frame to sum up the debate and respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the rapporteur of the designated Committee for Sustainable Development.
u2015-11-02-277	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! The 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV. T/6632 amending Act T/6632. With regard to bill No. 44 of the Parliamentary Resolution No. 10/2014 on certain house rules, the Committee concluded that it complied with the provisions of the Parliamentary Decision No. 44. § 1 constitutional, legal and legislative requirements. The legislative proposal is the 2011 LXXXV on the Environmental Product Award. It aims to incorporate the experience gained by law enforcement after the entry into force of Law No 1 of 1 January 2012. The fundamental aim of the concept is to establish a clear, simplified and transparent set of rules, which are understood and applied in the same way by both obliged farmers and the enforcement authorities. The proposal was drawn up jointly by the wallets and authorities concerned on the basis of the questions raised by the law enforcement authorities. In the context of the legislation, feedback from law enforcement has shown the need to simplify and reduce the administrative burden, especially for those who choose individual waste management. The purpose of this bill is therefore to facilitate the fulfilment of the obligations of those concerned. The main elements of the proposal are: the introduction of a vehicle product fee gap in order to reduce administration, the simplification of the performance of individual waste management, the clarification of the sanctioning system of the Product Charges Act, the addition of a late payment bonus, and other amendments, including the extension of interpretation provisions, concepts and clarification to facilitate interpretation of the law. Among these areas, we focused mainly on one point in the Commission's debate, and it was said that, by supplementing the definition of placing on the market, not only domestic but also foreign farmers will be obliged to pay a product fee in the future in case of sales to a long-distance customer, i.e. via online sales to Hungary. This amendment removes the existing market disadvantage for domestic farmers. This is because the current legislation is not sustainable from an environmental and waste management point of view, as in the event of the introduction into our country of waste of products subject to charges on the online distribution channel, collection and recovery should be provided from domestic sources. According to the proposed point, from now on, those foreign long-distance sellers [[The president's ringing the bell.]] who have a domestic VAT registration and then have to pay a product fee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-278	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Two speakers presented the minority opinion formulated in the committee, with a total duration of three minutes. Who should I give the floor to first? [[Sallai R. Benedek points to Anita Heringes.]] First, I give the floor to the lady, the congresswoman, Anita Heringes.
u2015-11-02-279	Thank you very much. At the committee meeting, after discussing this bill as the next item on the agenda after the ministerial hearing, we have received responses with much less enthusiasm from now on, but thank you very much, because we have been through a very long committee meeting. Our problem was to amend this Environmental Product Fee Act, and we also expressed this as a minority opinion that we do not see simplification in it, but simple collection of money, which will once again be spent in the wrong way. Because even if you could accept the money collection, you would be trying to collect the money through a system that doesn't work right now, in a well and sustainable way, but at least then you'd be spending it on the environmental system. However, as we have seen, no quarter of the 63 billion environmental product fee revenue planned for 2015 is devoted to environmental programmes, recycling or simply to support civil society organisations. Therefore, the MSZP fraction cannot support this amendment either, and we should bring something here once that is otherwise sustainable and forward-looking. Thank you.
u2015-11-02-280	Thank you very much. One minute and 40 seconds left for Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-11-02-281	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to start by saying immediately that the misunderstanding that this is not a product fee rule is not a simple withdrawal, because the spirit created by the legislation was literally the basic objective of the 2011 law is to contribute to the prevention, reduction of pollution, the cost-effective management of natural resources, which is what the legislation with which it was created said. Compared to this, at the moment there is the same price for a penny on chlorinated white paper and green repaper, the same amount is on phosphate-free and traditional washing powder. If all members of a broad-spectrum product group with an environmental impact are subject to the same tax, it is not a green tax, it is obviously a drain. A perfect example of this is what the President of the Republic drew attention to at the beginning of this year: at the moment, the solar panel was charged with a product charge, while the Paks Nuclear Power Plant did not have to charge product fees and environmental charges, despite the fact that its storage and management cost a great deal in the long term. [[20.10]] Consequently, as my MSZP colleague said, we did not consider this to be a green tax. This is a simple collection of taxes, which, overall, cannot serve both sustainability and environmental and nature protection objectives with this tool system. We hope that the government will ever think about, say, a flat bulb, a compact bulb, and a traditional bulb - or even a number of examples - how to distinguish the product price, since all environmental pollution involves, the government is right in this, all of which basically uses natural resources, but obviously, based on life span, they do not count on the same weight. That's why we won't be able to support you. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-02-282	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. No one came forward in writing, so I'm waiting for the candidates at the push of a button. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see an application, and I do now. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-11-02-283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was wondering if I should comment. I would like to draw up a very brief opinion similar to that of my fellow members, opposition Members, who have drawn up the minority opinion. Otherwise, the measures contained in the amendments alone may not be bad if the whole regulation itself, the environmental product fee itself, were to achieve its objective and not just be treated as a simple tax revenue by the government. I do not wish to repeat what has been said in the general debate. There I told you exactly what excuses we have on the proposal. But the fact that we can see in the natural and environmental situation in Hungary and in the situation of waste management is that forints from the environmental product fee could be more useful. The government always tells us what results have been made in the field of environmental protection and waste management in particular, and what plans there are for the next period, and how many billion forints of EU funds are available for this. What I would like to see is that these forints, which come from the environmental product fee, are not treated as simple tax revenues, but, in accordance with the original spirit of the law, are intended to improve the order of waste management and improve the domestic regulation of waste management, so that both hazardous and non-dangerous waste streams, which are produced in high quantities or which are of high risk, can receive appropriate treatment and cannot be treated in a place where, unfortunately, conditions that still occur on a regular basis today, and environmental damage, environmental pollution, resulting from these waste streams ending up in a place where there is a danger to the environment or human health due to inadequate treatment or inadequate efficiency of treatment. That is all I wanted to say, explaining why we cannot support either the amendment or the original proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-11-02-284	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP.
u2015-11-02-285	Thank you very much. Which is why I asked for a comment once again, it is because we are amending the Product Charges Act for the second time this year, and hoping that if I say it once again and by accident they will hear why this product fee was created, what it would do originally, then perhaps we will achieve our goal if the amendment is brought in for the third time. The environmental product fee was introduced in Hungary in 95, the original aim of which would be to create financial resources for the prevention, reduction of environmental pollution and pollution and damage caused by the production, distribution and use of different products, and for the promotion of activities aimed at saving the management of natural resources. Ladies and gentlemen, This amendment has now not simplified this law, but is slowly as complicated as an implementing regulation. We really believe that, on the one hand, the waste management system should be put in place, even if, according to their own Deputy State Secretary, the waste management system is sustainable and functioning well at the moment. Somehow, people don't see it, somehow the mayors don't see it, and almost 100 percent of government-owned nonprofit companies don't see it at the moment. We are waiting for the amendment of the Waste Management Act to be introduced by describing their actual goals in it, not what we will be discussing this week. You can see that you managed to destroy this system, as well as chimney sweeping and water utility service. The only charm is that a minister whose law has been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court is presenting this amendment. I think that we should consider what is being brought before us. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy applauds.]]
u2015-11-02-286	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, and there may be other politics.
u2015-11-02-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was pleased to speak because I saw in my fellow Members in KDNP the enormous interest in the product fee system and the importance of introducing a green tax system in Hungary. Reflecting on this interest, I thought that I could only express my views which I could not have said earlier, since I could not deviate from what I had said at the committee meeting in accordance with the rules of the house. So now I would also like to mention what kind of legislation is it when the legislator withdraws itself from the scope of the law. At the moment, the legislation states that, under the domestic product fee law, publications issued under the basic tasks of the public body of the municipality are not included in the products subject to a product charge. These typically refer to such leaflets, which we receive in small window envelopes with the Prime Minister's photo and a pile of other trash, with which the Hungarian electorate is covered by government propaganda, for which we do not even have to pay the environmental product fee, which is always present in the production of these products, not only during the production of paper, but also during all processing and collection of waste. This is important because if they wanted to create a green tax system, which LMP is fully committed to, and we would be very happy to support the government in doing so, then there would be a chance that we could come up with a tax system that actually limits environmental burden by regulatory means and facilitate the uptake of environmentally friendly techniques and technologies. But my statement, as a minority opinion and in the committee, that this is a withdrawal of funds, is supported by the budget figures that clearly show that the annual green tax revenue is more than HUF 50 billion, while the government spends approximately HUF 12 billion, i.e. a little less than a quarter, to support the collection and processing of product-winning waste. The visible goal is also to raise funds to supplement the budget. There is no basic mission on how to improve the Hungarian environmental and waste system. This is obviously why I am making this excuse, because the system is spectacularly inoperable from the point of view of the need for the system to support collection and recovery programmes throughout the year, it is usually allocated in the form of a tender at the end of the year, which makes it impossible for it to make an effective contribution to the legislative objective of serving environmental and nature objectives with the environmental tax system. In addition to expressing my joy in saying all this to my fellow Members in KDNP, I would also like them to support the creation of a truly green tax system for the Hungarian government and, with a significantly higher level of pressure on the environment, to implement what was set out in the drafting of the legislation by means of the principle of pollution payment, which the Ministry has repeatedly put forward, and not by doing this simple reduction of funds for the budget with some cosmetics. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-11-02-288	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. The next speaker is Mr Nándor Gúr, notary, representative of the MSZP.
u2015-11-02-289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman Anita Heringes said what problems we are facing with regard to waste management. I would just like to place three or four figures in the minds of my fellow Members, simply so that we can establish the basis for further reflection. As far as I know, the annual accumulated deficit for this public service amounts to approximately HUF 13-14 billion. It's a huge amount of money. What is the other big problem is the kind of impairment that results from the non-processing of the collected waste, in Hungarian: that it doesn't go through the proper selection and that after selection it doesn't process. [[20.20]] It is supported by expert opinions that this represents a loss of some HUF 40 billion in 2014 for a closed full year. And what I would like to draw your attention to is a product fee of this magnitude of HUF 70 billion. According to my knowledge, nearly 5 percent of this is what goes back to public service companies dealing with waste management, in Hungarian: such an order of HUF 3.5 billion out of HUF 70 billion. Here's the question: where is the other HUF 66.5 billion? If we look into the operation of this system, one of the great torsos is, in fact, the magnitude, the size of the designation through the disaster management system, the extent of its number, and the number of problems it raises in this respect. In fact, as a hundred words, it is possible to say in this regard that the way in which the waste management public service in Hungary is to be rethinked, and it is worth considering whether this measure, which I have mentioned, is in order to reverse the resources generated by the product fee. Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-290	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, State Secretary, who responds to what was said in the debate, he has a ten-minute timeframe.
u2015-11-02-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you all for your contribution, Mónika Bartos, to summarize what we would like to achieve with this proposal; obviously not the amendment of the General Product Charges Act. Our aim is merely to introduce the product fee fee price girl for the vehicle, which has decreased administration, to simplify the performance of individual waste management and to provide a way to clarify its system of penalties for those who violate the product fee law. Some clarification that facilitates interpretation is also included in the law. However, both the general debate and the Commission debate have given us the opportunity to interpret very extensively the subjects covered by the Product Charges Act. This was about waste management, but if I could highlight a comment or comment from the opposition benches, it is that there is no simplification here, it is a collection of money. Ladies and gentlemen, by amending this law, there will be no additional revenue for the State. There is therefore a simplification for those involved in the payment of the product fee, and we do not expect that there will be more public revenue. But they also said that we're going to use a fraction of the 50-60 billion in revenue here for the purpose. Well, that's not true. After all, the 12-13 billion we want to spend directly on recovery is not all environmental expenditure within the budget, as we operate the environmental and nature protection institution system for more than 5 billion, together with public authorities and research institutes, there are many applications, environmental compensation, nature protection compensation, programmes that we can also cover from this source. But the biggest item is not this. Again and again, let me tell you that in the last seven-year cycle, of which a significant part, investments have fallen almost exclusively to the time of the Orbán government, we have spent 2300 billion on environmental and nature conservation improvements. This is an enormous number, but in the new EU programming period that has just started or has already started, we will be able to reach some 500 billion. So we're going to spend half a billion more than this figure on environmental and nature protection. I hope no one is seriously considering this to be some kind of neglected area. In fact, if we add some 800 billion in land-based subsidies to this, then there is about 3540 billion in the amount that will be spent on this in the coming years. At the time of the development of the Product Charges Act, there was an imaginary model that this product fee would be used, used and set aside by manufacturers themselves, distributors. Well, this model didn't work. But if that were the case - because there is, to some extent, individual performance and we are simplifying it in this law, for example, but it does not become general, I think it is quite right, because laws and laws can always be shaped in accordance with a tax, production and environmental culture - then it would not even be possible to mention which product should be released. It wouldn't be an issue with the solar panel if someone didn't pay for it. After all, if you have to take care of the recycling itself, this aspect cannot be included in the weighing elements at all. This is only now being raised because there is a community performance, and those who think so say nothing less than those who install solar panels on their houses, others have to pay for this recycling cost, those who will never put solar panels on their houses, because someone else will do the job on a tax basis. Of course, such a system can be developed. Obviously, this law doesn't try to do that now. I will tell Nándor Gúr and Anita Heringes again and again, there are problems with waste management, but this problem is not yet felt, despite all claims, by the recipient of the service. So it didn't happen that they didn't take the waste away from someone, and it didn't happen that, say, they couldn't keep a reduced fee for years, so it's a good system for the residents. That this transitional period is unpleasant for public services, it is without doubt, but the government will soon take effective measures in this regard, and a new system will stand up based on the elements that, for example, are now carried out by non-profits, and the profit element has been wiped out from this system. Waste management is, by the way, a more extensive category than the public service itself. Local waste accounts for about 22-23 percent of total waste. So that's why they're always asking for it to be treated like this. This waste order is decreasing in Hungary. So, like the state-of-the-art waste management countries, we can already deliver good results in this element, as in recycling. Mr Nándor Gúr mentioned that there are no results in these and that it is useless. No. In 2010, 24 percent of municipal waste was recovered and 36.5% in 2014. We hope that these data will improve even more in the future, as the home-to-home selective system introduced from 1 January already has excellent results. There are some parameters, such as paper, where there is a 150 percent increase and not only a larger quantity of secondary raw material, but also a much higher purity. [[20.30]] Finally, I thank all of you for your contributions and ask that you support the proposal in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-02-292	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It is now up to XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/6627. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-02-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/6627 on 30 October. XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. A bill amending the Act was tabled by the committee with 27 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 2 abstentions, together with an amendment and a summary report. The summarised amendment only contains a proposal from the Judicial Committee for a text-focusing and partially substantive amendment. Proposal for a substantive amendment: the bankruptcy law 27/A. Paragraph 6b of the new paragraph of Section 6b of the Law on Bankruptcy considered it unjustified to give the judge the possibility of a penalty, given that it does not allow the judge to consider the imposition of a fine in other points of the bankruptcy law, such as Article 27/C. Paragraph 5 also, if the act written there is carried out by the winding-up or the winding-up organization, the fine shall be imposed. The Legislative Committee, as I mentioned, agreed with the Judicial Committee's proposal. He didn't submit his own motion here. I would also ask you to support the bill, which clarifies the rules applicable to winding-up proceedings. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-02-294	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. János Fónagy: At the end.]] At the end. Thank you very much. You'll have a ten-minute window for Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask who wants to comment, because I don't see a candidate yet. [[No signal.]] There's no contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll give the speaker the floor to tell you your thoughts. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2015-11-02-295	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings submitted by the Government. T/6627 amending Act No. The bill contains amendments relating to the appointment and compulsory professional training of winding-up commissioners, the management of the list of insolvency administrators and the sale of liquidation assets. The aim of the proposal is to increase the professional level of winding-up activities, to make the organisational framework of the winding-up register more efficient, to increase transparency and publicity of the sale of assets. The bill received a single individual amendment containing proposals for codification and clarification, which did not affect the substance of the regulatory initiative. Dear Parliament, In the view of the Government, this is a proposal for changes that are technically sound and justified by practical application experience. On this basis, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the Committee's summary amendment and the bill itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-02-296	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain transport-related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/6629. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-02-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/6629, on 31 October this year. The Commission submitted a bill amending the laws relating to certain transports and submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 27 votes in favour and 7 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment only contains the Economic Committee's proposal for drafting and codification clarifications, with which the Legislative Committee has fully agreed. The above-mentioned Commission's amendment consists of 12 points. The committee voted in favour of 12 points separately. It raised such questions of a similar nature, so that, taking into account the, it should be written together or separately, or, at the time of the servicer, it should be corrected for the, the,, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the. On these issues, there were also some opposition representatives who did not support the amendment proposals, although it practically corrected language-place errors. I don't know why they did this, obviously they'll count to their voters that they don't think it's necessary to correct spelling errors in the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-02-298	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask the author if he wants to comment now or at the end. [[Dr. János Fónagy: At the end.]] Thank you very much. You will have a ten-minute timeframe at your disposal, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-11-02-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This is the proposal to amend the legislation on transport, which lies before us; we are beyond a general debate and debate on the Commission, because the MSZP has tabled amendments to this bill. I would like to say very briefly that it is quite clear that we have another salad law before us. I regret this very much because basically this bill contains very good initiatives, and many of its elements are also for harmonisation of legislation. So I think that certain elements would be eligible. I am sorry that we cannot separate this, by the way, because we will also vote on the permanent law on voting. [[20.40]] From the amendments that we have tabled, I would like to highlight these three. One relates to aviation oversight fees. This issue has also been raised in the general debate, because at present the proposal does not show how the change would be compared to the current regulation, and unfortunately we did not get an answer to the question of what the new regulation would look like at the committee meeting. From the annex, which is part of the bill, we can conclude for now that this will entail an increase in aviation oversight fees, and of course we cannot support it. The committee voted against our amending proposal, which would have left the current regulation, and I say that on the new one, Mr State Secretary referred to the fact that we will see from the implementing regulations what is going on. They don't show yet, so I think there's a lot of uncertainty. We also suggested the concept of public aviation, adding disaster protection to its definition, as the defence itself and many other items are listed. Disaster control isn't there. At present, disaster protection uses the tools of the Hungarian Defence Service, but it is not known that in the future we hope that sooner or later the helicopter tenders that the government has been pulling and delaying for years will be implemented, and now they are doing this slowly to the detriment of the safety of the Hungarian people, so it is absolutely necessary. The question is, if disaster control has its own aircraft, then what about regulation? In this respect, we have tabled an amendment to include disaster management in this list, and the Committee has not supported this either, unfortunately. Moreover, the third amendment concerns the possibility for the shipping authority to grant a derogation from the ADN Code for the carriage of certain dangerous goods, and this would not only apply to fireworks on 20 August, but also in all other cases. With this amendment, with such a blank mandate, we still cannot agree. These three amendments were not supported by the Committee. That is why I am truly sorry that such a salad law is in front of us again, because, for example, the clarification of certain concepts is very welcome, the fact that there is a regulatory effort in relation to unmanned aircraft is also very welcome, because we have been waiting for years and in many conferences and discussions this has already come up in both informal and formal forums about the great need for regulation on drones. After all, there is a positive use, as we can see in the case of meteorology, law enforcement, detection, mapping, and disaster situations. We've seen this before in Hungary. Obviously, there are military goals, but there are basically positive uses, but let's just say I don't have to describe, I think, the possible security risks to these instruments. So we should definitely talk about a strategy and a package of legislation that can be achieved in both a domestic and an appropriate international regulatory environment, I think. This bill does not yet reflect this. The direction would basically be welcome. I am very sorry that we have not seen the right openness to the points that we have proposed to amend. In the form in which certain elements are thrown together in this law, we will not be eligible for this form. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-300	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik.
u2015-11-02-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, During the general debate on the bill last week, in support of professional arguments, I detailed in about ten minutes why this amendment is basically supported by Jobbik's faction and why we will press "yes" to this proposal tomorrow. The proposals that can be divided into four major thematic sections concern air transport in particular. It also contains some specific cases, new regulations, corrections. Last week, I took part in the details of the substantive elements; because I am a very humane person, given the late hour, I would not be torturing my fellow Members, so I will not repeat it. Jobbik supports improving aviation safety, we accept the justification for EU legislative harmonisation amendments, and we are in favour of strengthening safety in air, road, rail and water transport, which is quite clear. Therefore, we also accept the amendment of the technical specifications contained in the bill. There were no elements that could be judged differently from a political point of view. With regard to the amendments made by my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, I can say that we have been able to support and support two of the three. We agree that it is not right for the authority to exempt it from the proper procedure for any reason. Here we are thinking of the water transport of dangerous substances, and we also agreed that disaster protection should be included in the concept of State aviation. However, what we have not been able to support is to leave the stage governing the oversight fees of the aviation authority. We do not accept this amendment, because in this particular case we are of the opinion that the resources borne by the area of supervision should dominate the functioning of public bodies. In this way, indirect State redistribution should be slightly reduced, not the primary one here, and therefore this third amendment proposal could not be supported by the Member woman. By the way, these proposals do not affect the picture of the proposed bill either when it is adopted or when it is rejected, so in total, regardless of the fate of those who amend it, Jobbik itself is eligible for the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-302	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment on the factions. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy, the rapporteur, within a ten-minute time frame.
u2015-11-02-303	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the Commission's proposal to amend the Committee to conclude the detailed debate, the Legislative Committee also presented a comprehensive amendment to the bill containing clarification of a technical and wordingal nature. With my fellow Members' permission, I am neither returning to the general debate nor to the Commission's, otherwise in many respects justified polemia. However, I note that, on the one hand, the bill is not a salad. According to the parliamentary term, it is the salad law where we amend several pieces of legislation in one legislation. Here we amend the various provisions of a law by means of a law. Therefore, this fundamental attitude is not affected, but I wanted to note this in any case in order to clarify the situation and to strengthen the professionalism of the proposal. What the Congresswoman reiterated, my fellow Member, has summarised the position on fees. As regards the derogation, in the transport of hazardous waste, the start-up from barges was indeed the practical basis for the change in the fireworks on 20 August. Here, I suppose, my opposition fellow Member is afraid that, say, we will be transporting nuclear material. This applies initially to domestic rules and other rules apply to international traffic. Finally, but not least, I would like to note that the whole proposal itself - and I must say and thank you to all the participants - is of a very professional nature. There's nothing ideological about the government's amendment. So the proposal and again, the comments made by my fellow Members were also of a professional nature. The summarised amendment would otherwise be in line with the government's position. In view of this, I would like to ask you to support the summarised amendment proposal and the amending bill itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[20.50]]
u2015-11-02-304	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CCXXX on Hungary's central budget for 2014 follows. The Commission's reports on the implementation of the Act and the debate on the draft amending proposal. The government referral is T/5954. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in the debate. They have a total of 60 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of 30 minutes of time.
u2015-11-02-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, The draft law on the closure of the 2014 central budget, the general debate of which took place on 7 October, followed by a detailed debate by the Committee on Budgets as a designated committee at its meeting on 13 October. Of course, the other Standing Committees of Parliament and the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary have also discussed it and, as rapporteur for the designated committee, I will also present their views. The negotiating committees have determined that the bill complies with the resolution house rule 44. § 1 of the Law, thus the bill meets the requirements of the Fundamental Law, the content and form of the law, it is in line with the unity of the legal system, it complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law, and it complies with the professional requirements of the legislation. The amendment proposed by the Member was submitted by a total of one fellow Member, Imre Pesti, supported by 10 votes in favour and four abstentions. The content of this is that the government will release the outstanding debt of the metropolitan and county government offices in recent years. The Committee has not made any further amendments. With the exception of the Committee on Budgets, no committee has tabled a proposal for a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate. I would now like to present the opinions of the negotiating committees. In view of the late dates, I would like to point out, in the detailed opinion of each committee, arbitraryly, some of the points which have established the full opinion of the committees. Budget committee. The implementation of the 2014 central budget complies with the legal requirements, the discharge bill is well founded and the financial data and information contained therein are reliable, the Budget Committee noted. I would like to point out that the Committee concluded that 2014 was also an important year for foreign exchange creditors, as the government took a number of measures, accountability, forintification, fairbank law, which, although, in the following year, have, in substance, reduced the burden of debtors. The growth rate is clearly indicated, as the Commission's opinion further states, by the evolution of investment processes. A total investment of HUF 5200 billion was made in 2014, which contributed significantly to GDP growth. In 2014, the Commission's resolution continues, the debt ratio calculated according to the European Union methodology decreased to 76,9 per cent from 77,3 per cent of the previous year, thus reducing debt in 2014. As a whole, it can therefore be concluded that the Commission's report states that state assets continued to grow in 2014, mostly through transactions in the utilities and banking sectors. These purchases did not worsen the deficit under the EU methodology. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 13 October 2015. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The success of Hungary's foreign policy, which helps to enforce economic interests in the world, is a vital issue for the Hungarian national economy. As a result of successful foreign policy, Hungary's annual exports amounted to 112.8 billion US dollars in 2014. The Commission's opinion also states that a further 15 strategic cooperation agreements were signed with 15 companies from June 2014 and therefore a total of 59 strategic cooperation agreements exist. Hungary has also strengthened its economic relations with the post-Soviet region, Asia, the Western Balkans and the Middle East. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has put great emphasis not only on the development of economic relations, but also on the development of political relations, and in this context it can be referred to as a reopening of the trading house in Ulanbátor and Kuala Lumpur, as well as in 25 places opened by the end of 2014, states the Commission's opinion. Opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. Due to the development of the planning and regulation system in the field of environmental protection, environmental infrastructure investments and environmental performance improvements in certain economic sectors, Hungary's environmental status changed positively in 2014 as in previous years. As a summary of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development, it is important to focus in the future on increasing environmental awareness, saving resources, improving resource efficiency, promoting sustainable production and consumption patterns, preparing for the impacts of climate change and eco-efficient innovation. Opinion of the Economic Committee. According to the Committee's findings, the budget for the reduction of wages was successful in 2014, the family discount system increased, the real value of pensions increased, the public employee wage increase was achieved, the wages of teachers and law enforcement workers increased. After 2013, real household incomes continued to rise dynamically in 2014, thus increasing household consumption expenditure by 1.7 percent. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] In 2014, the Commission's report continues, the pension benefit for personal income tax was introduced, extending the scope of the tax and facilitating self-care. In the case of general sales tax, there was a change in the fact that, from 1 January 2014, the VAT of live and half-carcases fell from 27 per cent to 5 per cent, and the provisions of reverse taxation of certain agricultural products originally due on 30 June 2014 were extended until 31 December 2018; furthermore, the report notes that there were positive aspects of the online connection of cash registers to the tax authority. In conclusion, the Committee notes that, on the basis of the above, the Committee considers that the implementation of the 2014 budget has served its economic policy objectives well. [[21.00]] Opinion of the National Security Committee. For the four national security services under the control of the Committee, the budgetary resources necessary for the proper functioning were also provided in 2014. On this basis, the Committee closed the detailed discussion on 14 October 2015. The Committee on Defence and Police, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the Committee on Culture and the Committee on People's Welfare have concluded that the bill complies with the House Rule 44. § (1) and therefore the committees closed the detailed debates on 14 October. Opinion of the Committee on Agriculture. Agriculture played a key role in GDP growth of 3.6 per cent in 2014 and its performance increased by 12,6 per cent compared to 2013. The debate was concluded by the Agriculture Committee on 13 October 2015. Opinion of the Judicial Committee. In the parts of the court chapter, the budget support increased by HUF 2404 million compared to the initial appropriations, i.e. by HUF 2.5 billion, the increase was due to compensation for the employees of the central government in 2014, the transfer of appropriations managed by the chapter, and the appropriations provided for the financing of defence management tasks. Public prosecutors' organisations have also increased their spending appropriations by around HUF 1 billion and HUF 453 million, which is 3.9 percent more than the previous year's appropriations. Opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion. The aim of the Committee on National Inclusion is to support the well-being of Hungarians living outside the borders of Hungary, to promote the care and development of their relations with Hungary, and to help the material and intellectual growth of Hungarians beyond the borders, the preservation of their language and culture by providing support to the Bethlen Gábor Fund as a separate state fund. Its support needs were submitted by 251 361 people from Transylvanian, Highland, Vojvodina, Transcarpathian, Muravian and Croatian areas, and the 2014 appropriations financed and supported these needs. Opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee. The Hungarian export performance was also excellent in 2014, the opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee states. In this context, the production of vehicles and the continued expansion of the related supply network and the expansion of capacity have played a significant role. The Committee also concluded that after the record performance of 2014 it expects further investment expansion from 2015 and that due to the increased drawdown of EU funds, credit programmes supporting the SME sector and a favourable return environment will contribute to this. Opinion of the Committee on European Affairs. The implementation of the budget in 2014 met the Maastricht criteria, the most important condition being the general government deficit below 3 per cent and the declining government debt in the GDP ratio. The Committee concluded the detailed discussion on 13 October 2015. Dear House, Mr President, On the basis of the summation of the opinion, I would ask this House to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-02-306	Welcome, fellow Members. The minority opinion will now be presented within a 30-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2015-11-02-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In the minority opinion, there are several processes that we see in the same way factually, but I must say that we have been encouraged to draw different conclusions. We claim - and this has been found in many committees - that this type of macro-track, which is produced by the current government, will not be sustainable. Artificially produced data for 2014 which are one-off are unlikely to be repeated. As we know, the year 2014 was a super-choice year, in which three elections were held, and things had to be that way. To quote the Prime Minister, the stars had to be well arranged in the sky. That is what he once said in Pécs; so it is not only the alignment of the stars, if they can be arranged. Why am I saying this macro-track isn't sustainable? After all, there are a lot of one-off things in this matter on which I do not think and Members in the minority do not think that every element of them would have been so powerfully influenced by the government that it could control these issues or maintain this state for a very long time. Let's face it, for these results, which could be made numerically, it was necessary to support EU funding at such a rate of payment, with an EU grant of HUF 1845 billion in the year of the elections. This can never happen again, even because of the declining sources of support for Hungary. So this can't happen again. The agricultural sector has closed a particularly good year. Forgive me here if I do not necessarily agree with my county colleague, János Harghitai, who said that they, as KDNPs, are much closer to this time, that is to deciding the weather. I do not think that this can be something on which a country's economy or the farming of a large sector, the agricultural sector, could be based in the coming period. Either it's a good time or it's not, or it's gonna be the right time for production, or it's not gonna be the right time for production. But we believe that the government will not be able to influence this in the next period. The world market prices for oil and gas have practically halved. However, consumption could, of course, have increased, and therefore, in particular, in the area of excise duties and VAT, additional revenue could be recorded by the government. We do not think that this is certain either, that it is the government's planned and sustainable macro-track, but rather the foreign policy and power positions of the world around us that influence it. At this moment, when we are talking about the closure of the 2014 budget, we can say that the Hungarian government has benefited from this, because it has been able to produce very positive data from this. But I also believe that the government does not play a decisive role in terms of oil prices, so this macro-track is not sustainable. Bringing it here as a fifth element, the MNB's growth loan programme did not lead to an increase of 0.2-0.4 percent. This, I think, is basically welcome, but only 2-4 percent was imposed when the growth programme was launched. So much has been projected, even if not required, but so much has been projected during the period when the growth credit programme was launched. Another thing is that if we listen to other participants in the banking sector, we also have to take into account the fact that this is a low, although state-distributable, loan - but it is the Hungarian National Bank, which is sometimes independent, but sometimes not so independent, especially in these matters - so how much this type of very, very cheap and state-controlled loan allocation will reverse the lending of the market banking sector players, financial institutions. If we take this into account, we believe that this 0.2-0.4 percent could have developed instead of the previously projected 2 and 4 percent. In addition, we can see that this 3 percent outflow in the banking sector will not even reach this 3 percent by 2016. [[21.10]] Without the expansion of lending, the Hungarian economy will not be able to grow more than 1.8-2 percent. So what we see is that basically what we gain from customs is lost in the gap, and here I think it is worth comparing it with the other countries in the region and with the data of the countries we see around us, who were mostly and entirely on the same starting line back in the early '90s. I would mention a few of these, so compared to our growth rate, the Czech economy grew 4.4 that year, the Romanian economy increased 3.7 percent, the Slovak economy increased by 3.1 percent, and the 2.4 percent Hungarian figure was the last in the region. So I think that, in view of such data and knowing the background of it, too, seeing that it is not sustainable, also seeing that there are a lot of one-off events in this, and of course also seeing that the credit and monetary policy of the central bank has not actually fulfilled the expectations of it - and now I cannot and would not like to express it more politely - then we have to see that these figures, I think, are at least a reason for blushing rather than pride. In the field of employment, the focus is only on the public work programme. The unemployment rate decreased by 2.5 percentage points compared to the previous year, but by the end of the year it decreased to 7.7 percent, but if wages are taken into account here, the wages from which these people would have to buy to increase domestic consumption by an average of 3,6 percent of the minimum wage and the increase of the guaranteed minimum wage by the beginning of the 3.5 percent year did not give rise to an extraordinary increase in wages. In other words, besides raising the minimum wage, incomes in the Hungarian national economy are virtually stagnating. The family-friendly tax system, the statements of high support for families with more children, cannot be confirmed by the statistics on actions. At present, the highly distorted system of personal income tax is significantly beneficial to high income earners and thus cannot offset this family tax reduction at all. Over the past period, several members of the diplomatic body, but a member of the diplomatic body, have really criticized the dilettant and unpredictable economic policy of the Hungarian government, and we believe that in 2014 this worked in a perfect way. This absolutely means and shows the focus on which the government is willing and able to place resources, and it shows a great deal of where resources are being taken from. About a thousand billion HUF withdrawal from health care, education, pensions and social benefits, while at the same time the state's own spending on itself increases by 1 percent in proportion to GDP, i.e. the amount spent on itself in the public administration's institutional system increases by that. Moreover, the indebtedness of the public administration system continues to increase, with debt levels rising by 0.1 percent. Not only have we failed to consolidate neither the health nor education system, but the debts of those that have increased in the past have increased and have increased in the period under consideration, not to mention that the government has also imposed a tax code called utility tax among many, where municipal or state-owned utility companies have now accumulated thousands of billions of debts in order to pay this utility tax. I believe that, of course, this is revenue for the government and revenue for the budget, but on the other hand, it imposes excessive and disproportionate burdens on non-real market players, but also on municipal and state-owned utilities. But let us remember what Fidesz promised us at the 2014 change of government: Fidesz will be the government of tax reductions, Fidesz will reduce tax. We have calculated that there are about 30 tax types, which means that almost every two weeks, on average, tax legislation has been changed. Obviously, we have to think of a large package over several months, but if we project this on average, tax legislation has changed every two weeks. This also does not help the kind of transparency and predictability for which Colleen Bell, the US Ambassador, has also used statements, which may not be said by a diplomat in private meetings, not in the crossfire of cameras. This kind of predictability is why foreign direct investment is in Hungary at the level it stands in Hungary. An excellent example of this is that the tax is not used for what the tax should be used for. A wonderful hit theme for 2014 was the advertising tax you invented. Everyone saw the political will behind it, and everyone felt the political will behind it, it started as a penalty tax, and finally it was tame, even if there was one who defended this advertising tax even when the government was pushing the debate away and pushing the matter away. But let's face it, there are still such incomprehensible rules that, for example, stores have to pay advertising taxes not only for their advertising magazines, but also for advertising signs in their own shops. All of this, unpredictable, unpredictable and opaque, has resulted in the deterioration of Hungary's competitiveness during this period. Fidesz promised to create Europe's most competitive tax system, compared to this, Hungary's position is reduced by one or two places each year in every international competitiveness comparison. The negative 0.2 percent level of inflation is due to the equivalent oil price, in addition to artificial regulatory intervention, called the reduction of the overhead. We believe that those who now have the task of maintaining the cost reduction will probably not only need planning but also a glass ball in the coming period, because some of them can be influenced by the government, but some of it will not. There has also been an apparently positive change in investment activity, but since we can negotiate the closing account and what it says well after the 2014 period, it is clear from this point on, from November 2015, that state orders have increased significantly in the electoral year, there has been a significant increase in public investment, and most of them have also been financed from the huge amount of EU funding of 1845 billion, which has made Hungary better at the time, but this is a snapshot, I cannot stress, it will not be possible to maintain this. The functioning of public finances has not improved, the Hungarian budget is one of the most opaque in the EU, and even in the OECD: it received 49 out of 100 points. My fellow Member may think that this is ridiculous, but I think that these are rather objective measures, and perhaps we should believe those organisations, and then, when they say positive data to you, they will hold onto it in the same way. These were formulated in the Budget Act, these shortcomings. The budget law does not contain explanations, the explanations are not updated in the new documents. Three of the eight types of budgetary documents examined in Hungary are not made: the directives, the six-month report and the citizens' budget. There are no tables according to the functional breakdown of expenditure in the documents, even though, for example, it would be mandatory in the Convergence Programme. The monthly reports are not detailed enough, there are bulk and aggregated data. The spending of reserves and residues, the redeployment is entirely outside the budgetary surveillance system; we have now had a debate on why we would like to place everything separately and not in extraordinary government measures. In recent years, the cost of operating the Hungarian state has increased both in absolute terms and in proportion, while the social and welfare expenditure has decreased. [[21.20]] Public finances accounted for 53.5 per cent of GDP, which already exceeded 54 per cent in 2014. Compared to this, a much lower welfare expenditure, compared to the planned 29,54 per cent, is only 28.7 per cent in 2014, i.e. a little more than half the state spends on welfare expenditure than it spends on itself. We believe that, in particular, in social security benefits, unemployment benefits, social assistance, the kind of decisive decline, the kind of social policy that appears in this kind of fiscal policy, it is in any way harmful and leads the country to the wrong direction. Total expenditure on government debt management increased to 8.6 per cent in 2014 and increased to 8.7 per cent in 2014 and increased by more than half in terms of economic functions, i.e. 18.1 per cent in comparison to 17.5 per cent in the year. If they didn't believe the OECD or those objective counterparts, they might have believed the State Court of Auditors, led by their own party soldiers. As far as tax revenues are concerned, the State Audit Office pointed out at the hearing of the 2014 budget that only 47 percent of the total planned revenue carries a partially sound and significant risk. Their warning was largely justified, as statistics showed a substantial underachievement in the case of kata- and forgeries. In the case of a specific tax on small taxpayers, the expected value was only 54 and only 28 per cent of the planned amount of the small company tax. I believe that these planning, if not errors, but risks, we always draw attention to, we always get an empty answer to the fact that, of course, the budget has enough reserves to ensure that it can be implemented in a stable way, but we do not see a sustainable path. I believe that this is why we will not support this proposal. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2015-11-02-308	Ladies and gentlemen, State Secretary Péter Benő Banai has applied, but I would also like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to comment within a ten-minute timeframe. [[Péter Benő Banai indicates that he has not asked for a word.]] He's high. [[For signal:]] Then I'm sorry, my computer doesn't look good, does it? Then we will now have the speeches of Members and I will give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara. [[Gyula Vantara says she didn't ask for a word.]] Neither did he; then I hope the third one will be a good hit from the board. Varga Simeon. Wait a minute, there may be a small technical error, and now Mr. Simeon is missing, and now Mr. Vantara is logged in again. Congressman Vantara, do you have a comment? No? 'Cause now I've got the button pressed. I now give the floor to Mr Varga Simeon to give the Bulgarian minority opinion. I'm sorry, it's a total mess in front of me.
u2015-11-02-309	Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. CCXXX of 2013 on Hungary's central budget for 2014 In the course of the decision-making process of the bill on the implementation of the law, it can be said that the opinion of nationalities covers a period in which the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and the individual advocates were not involved. Nationalities in Hungary had the opportunity, in 2014, after the elections, to contribute to the central budget, to their preparation and adoption, to express problems affecting nationalities and to represent their solution within the parliamentary framework. Among the solutions to these problems that are important to us, the NGOs of nationality deserve to be mentioned, as they are the guardians of ethnic culture, ethnic traditions, ethnic identity. The operating and programme support of national minority NGOs was HUF 110 million in 2014, which has not been increased for a long time. The current proposals submitted to the Human Resources Support Manager in 2014 show that only a small proportion of the aid requested could be assessed because of a lack of resources. This is why the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary welcomed the regular support of several ethnic communities through the intergovernmental ethnic groups. At the same time, there was a need for future change. In the case of the majority of nationalities in Hungary, this option did not exist systematically, and it was therefore necessary to provide a specific source, all the more so, as the number of national minority institutions adopted by the national authorities will increase and increase significantly. I would like to mention national minority self-governments with very diverse and diverse tasks, for whom significant additional costs were caused by public finance legislation and further legislative changes, and then by the general government and accounting changeover in 2014. There has been a significant change in the system of support for local and regional self-governments by introducing a transition to task-based support. As a result, the overall operating aid rate has changed to a low amount in practice. Therefore, the problem was not only that the amount of aid had not increased for a long time, but it was at least as serious a problem as it was that they were deeply underfunded even at start-up. Following these decades of negative, increasingly depressing history, nationalities had the opportunity to present their work in the draft law on the central budget of 2015 by representing the institution of spokesperson in the National Assembly. In the summer of 2014, the minority committee began to assess and compile the needs of 13 Hungarian nationalities in relation to the 2015 budget. The proposals were sent to all the factions, professional wallets, long before the 2015 budget was submitted. With weeks of continuous work, multi-stage negotiations, open-ended compromises, we reached a consensus-based package of amendments that were considered professionally sound by the wallets before the general debate on the draft budgetary law began. This can mean a clear breakthrough, a meaningful, positive shift in the relationship between Hungarian ethnicities and Hungarian politics. We can give an opinion without any obligation regarding the report and closure of the 2014 Central Budget Act, as the nationalities and fellow speakers in Hungary have not yet been given the central budget and preparation of 2014 to represent our interests in substance, to express our legitimate requests with our parliamentary role. However, our work is ripe, so the 2015 central budget bill and its amendments are no longer decided without us and above our heads, but with our participation. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание!
u2015-11-02-310	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time for the normal people to say the word. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-11-02-311	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have listened to the Commission's reports, we have listened to the minority opinion, which has revealed a lot of things, we have heard a lot of numbers, macro data, budget figures, about the growth of the economy, about investments, but I would like to highlight one thing: the social impact of fiscal law and budgetary policy. As I explained in the general debate, and my fellow Members said at committee meetings, it is necessary to look at the social processes that took place in 2014 or the previous period behind the figures which appear to be beautiful, and unfortunately, we can see that this budgetary policy has not changed this year, and because they are already familiar with the 2016 budget, and so in 2016. [[21.30]] We can see that the distorted, exclusional and stigmatizing social policy that Fidesz is pursuing is reflected in this law and in budgetary policy, and unfortunately we can see that it will continue in the future. The essence of this philosophy is that the earner earns more, and the poor earn less; in fact, we can talk about a reverse Robin Hood: here your budget laws take away from the poor, and they give this money to the rich. How could it happen that in a budget year where it was planned to increase GDP by 2 per cent in total, this was achieved by 3.6 per cent, which we heard the eulogies about here, while on the expenditure side welfare expenditures decreased compared to 2013? Not only has the 2014 budget spent nearly 10 percent less on welfare expenditure, social policy, social benefits, pensions, family support, unemployment benefits, all of which decreased in 2014, and we can see that unfortunately both in 2015 and 2016, while, as my fellow Member said, the state's expenditures have increased and we can see that there is always money for various extra expenditures, there is always some money for public media worth hundreds of billions of HUF, there is always a small amount of money to build stadiums [[Gyula Vantara interrupts.]] [[Gyula Vantara interrupts.]] Although in the form of a tax reduction, it is missing from the budget, and yet there is money for heated soccer fields (Gyula Vantara intervenes). While welfare spending continues to decline. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] And what effect does that have on society? You no longer research it, you no longer deal with it, we have also heard it in the speeches before today's agenda, but for example, a research group of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences dealt with it and, together with a research company in spring 2015, conducted a research which resulted in the fact that almost 40 percent of the people interviewed are in some kind of shortage, and who are suffering from a variety of problems, i.e. a number of poor people. [[Gyula Vantara interrupts.]] , their percentage is up to 25 percent. From this research, it is clear that 76 percent of families in Hungarian society have a problem with an expense that is unexpected for a given household. A little less, but two thirds of the respondents said they couldn't go on vacation for a week. [[Gyula Vantara: Did Népszava do this?]] In a very serious proportion, it has been said that a normal daily meal and food problem cause them. 20 percent said that the household is in some kind of late payment and 12 percent of the respondents are having problems [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] the solution to winter heating. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that while there are hymns singing here, while they are throwing all kinds of numbers, they are reporting various indicators as a one-time huge achievement. [[Gyula Vantara and Dr. László Kács intervene.]] In the meantime, pay attention to the real processes in society, and unfortunately, these processes will not improve but deteriorate. [[Gyula Vantara interrupts.]] inequality, the difference between those who earn the most and those who earn the least is constantly increasing, and neither in this budget nor, unfortunately, in the budget of next year are measures that would compensate for this or reduce this inequality. That is why we will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Kács: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-02-312	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2015-11-02-313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member Gyula Vantara launched a speech [[Gyula Vantara: Me?!]] Because he spoke on behalf of the committees. He gave the opinions of the majority, let us say, of the pro-government sides of the committees, but not of the Commission's opinions, so I am going to give you just a few thoughts from what we have summarised as the opinion of the Committee on Enterprise Development. Do we have to assume that 2014 is either luck or unfortunate? but - a one-time process, i.e. one-off positive effects. [[Gyula Vantara interrupts.]] What is good, I think it is good, on the one hand, that they were able to use some HUF 2 000 billion of EU funds, it was a good year for agriculture, there was plenty of money in the financial markets, and the prices of oil and gas were, we know, halved in world markets. These have all obviously had a positive impact on the development of the budget. This is all right, but the problem is that this is not a sustainable process in the long term; unfortunately, it is obvious: already clear decelerations are confirmed in 2015 unfortunately. But if we look at what has been said, it has also been formulated in the summaries, in 2014 we paid more taxes than we did in 2010, at the change of government, or in the development of competitiveness in the years that are deteriorating, or in terms of employment, which is always being preached. It has to be said that when you talk about growth in employment, of course, yes, with regard to employment abroad and in public work, there was indeed an increase here, but what you have promised, and what you always, always, if necessary, lie in the eyes of people, the increase in employment in the economy - you know, what you promised, the million new jobs in the economy - well, there is no sign of that. [[Vantara Gyula laughs. Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] Yes, yes, it is ridiculous, and it is ridiculous that my fellow Member will even speak in this story and make faces. [[László Kucsák: Freedom of speech!]] Instead, the only thing he should do is work to make sure that their promise, the million new jobs in the economy, happens. Six years of government, 600 thousand new jobs should have been created in the economy - by contrast, we are almost at stagnation level; if they can account for 20-30 thousand new jobs, then we are talking about results. [[Gyula Vantara interrupts.]] But let's go to the National Employment Fund, which is a matter for the committee. Statement of conformity errors by the SAO at the National Employment Fund [[István Szilárd Németh: One more minute!]] the question of certificates of performance or the fact that in the context of vocational and adult training, [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Deputy Group Leader, in the field of vocational and adult education, which is so important to you [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] , some HUF 400 million less resources were used. Or in terms of wages, which they always talk about, in terms of minimum wages: that gross is increased, that's okay, but the net? To a much lesser extent, the purchasing power value of these funds has decreased. What my colleague Bertalan Tóth was talking about is, you know, opening up in the process of scissors. [[Gyula Vantara interrupts.]] And those who live their lives under tight conditions are becoming more and more difficult to live, their daily lives in this country. It is no coincidence that 2.2 million people, based on their tax returns to the National Tax Office, are below the minimum living limit! - and there's 1.3 million people on the minimum wage. Now, that's what we need to talk about, while the government debt is growing by thousands of billion forints. [[István Szilárd Németh: Three...]] when I was confiscated [[István Szilárd Németh: Two...]] 3,000 billion [[Németh Szilárd István: One, no more! The president's ringing the bell.]] And the tax burden has increased by 2,000 billion. That is what we should have talked about, my fellow Member Vantara, in order to give a little credibility to everything that was going on. [[Gyula Vantara: Time!]] Mr. President, thank you very much. [[László Kucsák: Regulation? Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-02-314	Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone wants to speak in the remaining timeframe. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask the author if he wishes to comment on the debate. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-11-02-315	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I must be honest with you that, although I have followed through some parliamentary debates, it is always difficult for me to speak when the opposition describes the 2014 marketing year with the words spoken. Then let's not look at eulogy, let's look at facts. Based on the latest data confirmed by Eurostat, the Hungarian economy expanded by 3.7 percent in 2014 and the third largest growth rate in Europe. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] The number of people employed was 208 thousand higher in 2014 than in the previous year. [[Nándor Gúr, from the stairs leading to the notary's seat: Németh Szilárd István: Not from there! Not from there. Intercoms.]] I specifically call to the attention of the Socialist Party representatives that there was a 4.5 percent increase in the competition sector, 4.5 percent! [[21.40]] Real wages grew above 3 percent. The current account, GDP, showed a 4.1 percent surplus. Government debt has decreased every year since 2011, thus also in 2014. The general government deficit was achieved not below 3 per cent, not at the previously set level of 2.9 per cent, but at 2.5 per cent on the basis of the latest data. Let me put it this way, citing Mr. Cook, yes, in a year when there were three choices. Congressman, do you know how in the literature Hungarian fiscal policy was described as saying a few professional things here? It is not an economic policy characterised by procyclicality or countercyclicalism or keynesi economic policy, but it was said that there is parliamentary cyclicality in the Hungarian budget, because when it is an election year, the deficit disappears. In 2006, it was 9.3 per cent of GDP. Please, I'm gonna need you to put me in touch with this. He described this economic policy as a dilettant and unpredictable economic policy. Please, Mr President, allow me to say that your situation must have been very difficult when it came to economic policy before 2010. Any indicator from the Hungarian real economy could have been highlighted and compared with that economic policy. I'm saying that if economic policy had been half as dilettious before 2010, we'd be much better off. This is not just me, but Eurostat data. How is it that when the public debt increased significantly, thanks to the very undisciplined government deficit, there was no real closure in the Hungarian economy? On the basis of Eurostat figures, we were able to approximate the EU average by 2 percentage points between 2004 and 2009. By contrast, the catch-up was 4 percentage points between 2009 and 2014 with the reduction of public debt and disciplined public finances. And, yes, this economic policy has also felt its impact in everyday life through a substantial increase in real wages, through a substantial increase in employment. As far as planning errors and the opaque budget are concerned: Mr President, let us see where the information on the lack of transparency of the Hungarian budget comes from. From a non-profit company whose funding also contains rather interesting funding linked to opposition parties and refers to a reference in which the vast majority of the Member States of the European Union do not participate. And what does this nonprofit stand for?? He says that the transparency of the Hungarian budget has improved. What would have been the opinion on the period before 2010? Mr President, you mentioned three specific points. There's no six-month report. Yeah, there's monthly reports. There are monthly reports on the Ministry of National Economy website. The congressman said there were no guidelines. Take a look at the convergence programme, which deals with budgetary directions for several years in advance. Take a look at the design sheet, which is public, Congressman, and look at it. [[Nándor Gúr: Yes, I know him. That's the problem. I know him.]] There's no functional board. Please, if you look at page 260 of the 2014 accounts and then you look over a few ten pages, then functional expenditure is included in such a breakdown, central subsystem, general government subsystem and others. It is not only in the 2014 budget but also in the previous years. I would therefore like to ask Members, with respect, to look at the official documents on which the debate is taking place before they speak and to make various statements in the light of them. Returning to the 2014 processes: it was not sustainable, yes, it was a good year, it was not sustainable - this statement from the opposition side. Once again, let us look at economic policy, with an economic eye, when economic policy is not sustainable, when a budget policy is not sustainable, while we are talking about the implementation of the budget. Well, if it involves a reversal of the equilibrium indicators. Unfortunately, Hungarian economic policy can be said for a number of periods when the lack of public finances involved a loss of public debt or when public finances were disciplined, but there was no growth. Once again, economic literature, literature, as a question of growth or balance, has adopted these periods. I report that the 2014 final report reports that Hungary has been characterised by growth and balance in the last year, and in this respect this economic policy, this budget policy, is sustainable. This is confirmed in addition to the 2014 figures by the already mentioned real convergence sequences or by the continued decline in government debt. Yeah, well, he's expanding the state's assets. For example, by amending the 2014 budget, it was possible to purchase shares in the Main Gas or to purchase the AVE waste management company. There was enough money in the Hungarian economy to make these acquisitions possible. And, yes, the value of the reduction in overhead can be preserved. Congressman Cook said a lot of items that he considered a one-time thing. I do not doubt that the measures were of a one-off nature. But the list that you mentioned, Mr President, I do not think it's a one-time list. European Union grants. We have been EU Member States since 2004. How could such results not have been achieved before using EU aid? I deny that the amount of EU aid allocated to the programmes would be reduced. Between 2014-20, thanks to a strong government position, one of the best, I recall, the third best net position, has been achieved in negotiations with the European Union's bodies. So EU funds are also with us in the coming years. Yes, there is a certain cyclicality, we can use the resources of the period 2014-20 only in 2016, we strive to make maximum use of resources at 2007-13 and at the end of 2015 pay the beneficiaries everything. There is no doubt a cyclical process, but EU funds are with us. As far as agriculture is concerned, there is no doubt that neither of us can influence the weather, but we can influence the conditions under which agricultural workers work. What is important is that support for animal farming most conducive to employment or support for the family economy is given priority. What I do know is that agriculture also has an extension of the job protection action, which makes employment much cheaper for employers. [[Dr. László Cook: Oh, my God!]] With regard to all the indicators, Mr President, I think that we should have a professional debate. As you know, I am always available to conduct these professional debates. I think it is difficult to catch the 2014 figures. Finally, let me say a few words about what this economic policy meant in 2014 and in recent years in terms of everyday life. I mentioned that employment has increased significantly. In addition to the 2014 figure, the number of people employed increased by more than 500 thousand between 2010 and 15 years, while real wages continued to increase. [[Nándor Gúr: Abroad!]] I would like to draw the attention of Member Bertalan Tóth to the fact that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increased by 3.5 percent and 3.6 percent respectively in 2014. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that inflation was minus 0.2 percent. This means that real wages in these groups were higher than average. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, by extending the family benefit from individual contributions, it was precisely those persons whose tax base did not allow full validation of the tax base. It is also due to this that today's welfare expenditure is not what we see today, as a few years ago, that the amount of unemployment benefits is increasing, but we see that more and more people have managed to live from work in 2014. On this basis, with respect, I recommend the adoption of the bill to the Parliament. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-02-316	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the XX. of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/6630. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment at the beginning. [[On the sign of Mrs Lászlón Németh:]] Before giving the floor, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a total of 10 minutes are available both at the beginning and at the end of the speeches. I give the floor to the secretary of state. [[21.50]]
u2015-11-02-317	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The bill before you seeks to amend two aspects of the operation of the Development Bank, both of which are proposals for amendments which contribute to optimising the operation of the Bank. One of these changes is the following. Under the MFB Act, the exposure of the Development Bank to a client or group of clients that are not credit institutions shall not exceed 45% of the own funds of the specialised credit institution. This restriction guarantees the prudent operation of the MFB and, with this restriction, eliminates the possibility for interlinked companies or groups of clients to no longer exceed or limit the amount considered to be large loans. This current legislative proposal amends this provision of the Development Bank Act in the light of the European Union's regulation of 575/13. According to the amendment, a group of clients and a consolidated risk factor would no longer be considered as a group of companies that are linked solely by the fact that they are owned directly or indirectly by the State or by the Hungarian Development Bank. I think - as has been said in the opening debate on this proposal - what are we talking about in this case? These companies operate in a completely different area, with a completely different function and a different business interest, and indeed there is only one common point: we are talking about companies owned by the state, the indirect state and the Development Bank. In other words, it is not logical for us to act in the same way as companies and groups of companies that can be discovered in business. So this would be one of the amendments. The other point of the amendment is this. As an implementing body, the Development Bank has been given a very important role in allocating the reimbursable resources for the 2014-2020 EU programming cycle. In the previous cycle, the distribution mechanism for the reimbursable resources of Széchenyi 2020 has been adapted to the country in such a favourable way that we can account for the risk of spending resources on the EU programme account. This is a very important development, because the Union's intention here was clearly to support and help companies operating in economically decommissioned areas, which are unable or very difficult to source from the market, where business risks are higher. As the losses resulting from the business risk of EU funds mediated by the MFB will thus reduce the EU envelope rather than the effectiveness of the Development Bank, it is therefore appropriate that only this type of financing should be assigned a zero-percent risk weight on the part of the Development Bank in the future. I think, as I mentioned at the outset, that both proposals for amendments are about the Bank of Development being able to do its job under optimal conditions, and I therefore ask you to support these amendments. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-318	I would like to inform the author that he has five and a half minutes left to rejoinder. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. I therefore give the floor to Mr Tamás László.
u2015-11-02-319	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, XX. of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company T/663. The general debate was held on 20 October and the detailed debate was concluded on 27 October. Given that no amendments were tabled by its representatives, I would like to repeat in a few words why it was important that the Government submitted this bill. Since the MFB plays a very active role in lending and developing the Hungarian economy, in 2014 the amount of new loans reached HUF 173 billion, it is important that its capital adequacy ratio remains at an appropriate level. At present, the bank's capital adequacy ratio is 23 per cent. If funded from EU funds, MFB Zrt. has an exposure of around HUF 750 billion. the bank's capital ratio would fall below 13 per cent. In order to ensure that this does not happen, it is appropriate to establish a risk weight of zero for exposures financed from Union funds. Dear House, I ask you to vote in favour of amending the Act on the Hungarian Development Bank so that the lending activities of the financial institution can continue in a smooth business. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-02-320	I ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the item on the agenda. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman László Cook has the floor.
u2015-11-02-321	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It was a little different now, however, from the presentation or the lead speaker's justification itself, so it is a little more understandable, of course, but I can't take it out of the line that we have seen in recent years, based on the recent amendment of the fourth law related to the MFB, based on the effects of a direction vector or of this direction vector. It can be seen that the Ministry led by János Lázár wishes to have the greatest possible degree of freedom in these economic matters, which are usually related to the Hungarian Development Bank, because we have already brought a law before us, and the majority has accepted it - that the Hungarian Development Bank can acquire any company, it is no longer necessary to bring it to Parliament, even though you would probably be able to get into a legislative position. However, it is easier for the minister himself to provide for this in a decree, and then sometimes he will report it to Parliament, or as the National Bank of Hungary will do the day after tomorrow, to take five years at a time, or just as the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund does to take five years at a time. We hope that the ministerial decrees and their explanations and reports will be a little tighter than this, but there will be an illusion less each week in these matters, and I do not expect much from this either, I tell you honestly. Then we also saw that he had subjugated the National Public Service Provider, the General Gas, he overpowered KAF Zrt., and whatever economic company the Ministry might acquire, he just has to point out, so to speak, he has to give an order, but you were much nicer than the previous law, because you said you had to ask him. In this law, we see that, since the analysis and monitoring of the process itself are not fundamentally complicated, you have not taken too much time to explain, since the text of the norm has been repeated in the explanatory memorandum, and we consider this to be fundamentally incorrect and contrary to the law on the rule of law. With regard to EU funds which are not essentially risk-free but which can be used at risk for several years in advance, this type of risk burden is taken as zero, and not least by treating each component as a common risk unit, especially in this area, we believe that this is fundamentally wrong, flawed and gives too much leeway to the ministry that manages this area. Sometimes I think about the fact that it's a kind of tactical overload that's happening to this department right now. [[22.00]] Too much responsibility, too much tasks. I wonder how the target function will be designated. If I were you, that's probably what I'd be paying attention to in this ministry. I don't think I'll make a mistake if I find out. But it would certainly be a mistake if we supported it in this way. Now, this is a forced march, obviously everything needs to be wrinkled by the Ministry. We believe that if no municipality can afford this, then a designated bank of the Hungarian State or its group of companies cannot afford it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-02-322	I now give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-11-02-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a specific question, and I apologize for the fact that at such a late hour and in connection with the summary debate on this proposal, but during the general debate we did not know about the leaked study that was published in one of the online newspapers, which was about the government having a strategic idea in the energy sector that it does not only want to buy trading companies - Elmű-, Émász-buying, Main Gas, here my fellow Member has already referred to it - but rather the companies that own the infrastructure, which own the pipelines themselves, which can amount to hundreds or even thousands of billions of HUF. My specific question is whether this concept, which is about very serious purchases, and what could be done by lending according to the material, has anything to do with this amendment, which means that in state-owned companies, MFB Zrt. For firms in their interests, this so-called risk factor is not to be taken into account. So, in fact, they are now establishing the legal basis for buying these energy companies from the loan of the Hungarian Development Bank or from the loan it provides. Obviously, this information is important because of the decision-making process and to see the details of the Hungarian government's energy policy. So this is a specific question of whether this amendment has anything to do with this strategic objective. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-324	I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is therefore closed. I'll ask you, Madam Secretary, if you'd like to speak at the end. [[Mrs. Lászlón Németh nods.]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-325	Yeah, I'll try to keep my answer very short. Of course, the two things have something to do with each other. And while I think that in this strategy... and I would like to return here to the fact that it is not yet before the government, there will be a discussion paper before the government. Of course, in this material we analyzed with experts, with international financial experts and legal experts, whether it is possible to move on from the point to which we have now reached in the construction of the utility service, if we move on, to what direction we can move on, and what tools we can use for this. This material will come before the government on the basis of a decision and make the choice they consider best. Obviously, it's a task-marking and directional thing. So that's one part of it. Of course, yes, we need to be able to exceed this limit of 45% if necessary. But if, for a moment, they differ or let go of the idea of monitoring the activities of the Development Bank with suspicion, then I think that it is a rather logical approach that, if, say, we want to grant loans to two public companies owned by the trustee, say, a water utility and a Volán company, then, by exercising the ownership rights of the trustee, these two companies do not have to merge and do not have to apply this consolidated calculation. The same applies also if the Bank of Development is a company owned or owned by its ownership. That's one part of the thing, which, I think, is a pretty important factor. The second is that the activities of the Development Bank are monitored continuously and very closely by the Union. In this way, the activities currently carried out by the Development Bank are also known to the Union. And I can inform you that by 2020, there is a green lamp that the Development Bank will be involved in these steps, these activities. What had to be undertaken was to restructure this portfolio by 2020 and reduce its role only to lending activities. So, in addition, that's what I wanted to say. What has already been said by Mr Cook has been mentioned several times, and Mr President has repeatedly mentioned this: too much is happening at the Development Bank, we are carrying out unobservable, unobservable activities. I told you once in a reply, and I would like to recall that Transparency International brought out the Development Bank as one of the most transparent banks. [[Dr. László Kács: We'll watch it next year!]] Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Kács: Last year there were other rules.]]
u2015-11-02-326	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/5349. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-02-327	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/5349 on 29 October 2015. XL 2008 on gas supply. a bill amending the law and, in this context, the House Rule 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 26 votes in favour, 7 against and 2 abstentions. The amended amendment adopted contains the amendment proposed by the Economic Committee. The purpose of the legislative amendment proposal is to establish a system for collecting and processing data and contributing to the performance of distribution clearing tasks which makes the distribution system transparent and verifiable, since the current system of settlement does not provide sufficient transparency. Currently, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, i.e. MEKH, determines the level of costs necessary for the operation of distributors, primarily by relying on the data of the companies concerned, the evaluation of experts and, even to a limited extent, on international benchmark data. With the operation of the central data collection and processing system, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office can obtain additional information that will make the operation of gas distribution companies more transparent and more effective in controlling their activities. I would like to stress that the activity and functioning of the central data processor, its detailed data collection and its detailed data processing will be carried out at retail level. So what we mean by this is that you will not enter into the role of the system manager here, but will map account with customers at consumer level and the precise and precise data needed to do so. Therefore, the aim of the amendment is to allow an independent licensee to carry out the distribution on which the gas distribution system accounts are based, in an uninterested central data collection and processing system. To this end, I ask for the kind support of the Parliament. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[22.10]]
u2015-11-02-328	The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-11-02-329	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, During the general debate and in the Legislative Committee, I asked a number of questions about this proposal, the starting point of which was why it was necessary to set up a new state company, to set up a public company for this task and for this activity. I have received a number of professional responses, I think, from the point of view of the need for such a data processing organisation, which can not work from the exclusive reporting of market participants, but can obtain these data directly and can clearly count in this distribution system. Our main objection was the need to create such a new company, which, if I remember correctly, will start its operation with a start-up capital of perhaps HUF 3 billion, and especially if we put it in an environment that Minister János Lázár himself said at a committee hearing that the management of public companies is used to steal; he put it a little more circumstantially, but in essence in this way, and another question is that regardless of party standing - he added, but he did make such a statement. So let us make use of the suspicion lawsuit that if a state firm starts operating there, the head of this state company will probably earn HUF 3-4-5 million a month, with a 20% premium, it will also cost us money, and let us use the suspicion lawsuit that there will be management and board of directors, so there are many interests in this area, as the Minister said. That is why we have proposed in our amendment that there is an office, this Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, which we believe would be fully capable of carrying out this task as an office, so we should not create another public company, its new management, with additional operating costs, as this activity alone costs money; for example, this could be a item on the side of public expenditure in energy pricing. I'd rather spend these three billion forints on another purpose, living with your comma horse, for example, to cut energy prices. So we don't think it's justified to set up another state firm, so we think there's an office that can do this. In the detailed debate, I asked as a question - the law states - what the main tasks of this company will be. The Secretary of State said that the reason they put it this way was because it is not yet foreseeable what specific, precise tasks it will have in this activity. Although I think that in a legislative process it would be best if the legislators, the Members of Parliament, could see in advance exactly what the task of such a public company will be, especially if it uses public money, and especially if it starts operating as a public company. Unfortunately, this amendment was voted off by the Economic Committee, and after these questions about what specific tasks the company will perform in addition to the main tasks, I could not get an exact answer, so we will not be able to support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-330	Thank you. I will ask the author, Lászlóné Németh, if she wishes to comment. [[On the sign of Mrs Lászlón Németh:]] Yes, you have the floor, because there are no candidates.
u2015-11-02-331	I was prepared to say a kind of closing phrase, but I think, to sum up what we are trying to achieve with this amendment proposal and what kind of idea we have developed the system to which the KAF would be closely linked, I might not comment now. What I would like to do, however, is a very important thing: basically, the government believes that such a self-functioning and independent data collector, working along regulatory systems, is absolutely necessary. Why is that necessary? There are conflicts of interest between distributors, universal companies, universal service providers. This can also be seen from the fact that, after 1995, while various plans were being made for the formation of committees, and the correction accounts will be resolved between companies, these committees, even if they have been established, have not been able to produce effective work. We believe that universal service providers - and this is now completely independent of whether or not we are talking about the universal service provider of the First National Public Utility Service Provider - should not be in such a vulnerable position that, while traffic data is known to distribution companies, distribution companies should have their destiny in the hands of distribution companies in order to carry out statistical data on the basis of quantities calculated in advance with different algorithms, partly with each other and partly with consumers. It is important to stress here that this is perhaps the only thing that has not yet been said in this regard that we consider the functioning of a central data processor to be essential in cases where gas measurement is not on a daily basis, is not done at a daily level - this is not the case for the population, for small and medium-sized enterprises - but the distribution companies make an estimate of the expected consumption of natural gas on the basis of an established statistical model, which is clearly the basis of which service providers acquire the quantity of gas that can be revalued and when a given consumption period ends, it is the distribution companies that provide the data for the final settlement. This cannot be verified by universal service providers in the absence of data, so we believe that this situation must be put to an end. That is why we think that, and that is why we say that retail traffic must be carried out in any way through the KAF processor. It was mentioned here that we did not provide a detailed list of KAF activities. I may have misinterpreted it at the committee meeting, Congressman. I didn't say we couldn't figure out what the data processor was gonna do. I said that if we want to list or list it in terms of terms and, where appropriate, there are two things that have been left out of the list, then there is obviously either another amendment, or we can be accused of not all and not fully informing our legislators about the activities of the KAF. I therefore think that the wording - and that is all I can say about it - that we have applied only contains and applies the most important activities and obviously the related additional activities. Allow me not to respond particularly to who steals or steals. I think these numbers are the numbers of the KAF, its operation is public, you can look at it, you can check it, you can monitor it, and then you can draw conclusions. And then there's one last thought that I'd like to say. The system usage fee is still part of an element for collecting and processing different data. Another question is what this is going to do today, so the Central Data Processor's revenue will also come from it. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-332	Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. I do not see any representation at the moment, so it is, in effect, possible to interpret this as a closing point, what the Secretary of State has said. But I'm gonna ask you, you obviously don't want to say the same thing again. [[On the sign of Mrs Lászlón Németh:]] Yes, I can see that it is not, so the debate is closed. The decisions will take place tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the amendment of certain legal acts follows a debate. [[22.20]] The government referral is T/6635. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Nándor Csepreghy: No, thank you.]] Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy says no. Thus, the designated Judicial Committee would follow, but it did not present a rapporteur. The speakers will now take part, and I will give the floor to László Vécsey.
u2015-11-02-333	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The present legislative amendment is closely linked to the 2014 XX on the list of recently adopted ministries in Hungary. Act and Act XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. T/6291. The new Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. No amendments supported by the bill were received. The amendments tabled by the MSZP can be regarded as a form of political hysteria rather than a sound professional proposal. It should be noted, for the sake of completeness, that the Socialists have already indicated in the previous bill that they have conceptually disagreed with the establishment of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister; in this context, it is worth interpreting their current proposals. We would like to continue to give the government the authority to shape its organisation and its operating rules. In view of the nature of the tasks carried out in the ministry led by the Minister for General Policy Coordination, the bill allows the establishment of a prime minister's chief advisor and prime minister's advisory position by qualified as political advisors and political advisors in the performance of tasks directly related to the Prime Minister's activities and in the performance of tasks directly related to the preparation of the government's decisions. This provision is of particular importance since the Ministry is responsible for political coordination, so it is well established that political advisors and political advisors can contribute to this. As regards the substance, it is also important to note that the proposal also initiates the amendment of the provisions relating to the provision of the Prime Minister's activities, on the one hand, with regard to the performance of tasks related to the Prime Minister's travel abroad and, on the other hand, the place of the appropriation to cover the Prime Minister's public offerings and donations. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill with your votes. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-11-02-334	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2015-11-02-335	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We have already had this debate most of the time, but I must stress it again because at the time I felt that the Secretary of State did not respond to what we had to say and did not take it. Of course, that's what we said, and that's how all the parties were, that the government would determine the structure itself. This does not mean, of course, that you consider this to be something that we agreed with, since all parties agreed on this. But whether we do not have an opinion as to whether it is necessary to establish a ministry for government propaganda, whether it is necessary to raise government propaganda to a level, especially in such a top-secret system that you have developed, which is, let's face it, not necessarily as effective as you have previously started, but, above all, not inexpensive with your 207 officials - we are talking about political appointees in this case; if you deny it, you will obviously sue the press organs where these figures have been published - and yet we thought that environmental protection, health, education, social and welfare matters might be something that the government would want to see better, but perhaps in a society that is as distorted as the current one that seeks to gain power and maintain power, but without real content, perhaps in a world that would try to raise its own propaganda to political heights. So far, there are only rumors of the government spending around 2.3 billion dollars, as I see it. So so far, there are only press reports that this ministry will run from 2.3 billion forints. All we've seen so far in the Committee on Budgets is that they've brought in a line of expenditures with zero and budget subsidies with zero lines. I'll tell you the truth, the first time I saw it, I was really happy to see it, because maybe they didn't mean it, but then I finally convinced myself that it wasn't going to stay that way, as it says here. However, I must point out that a budgetary body has finally been designed to function in balance in this case. As I said earlier, and I still hold myself to this, if there is such a duel within the Fidesen - I think I may have called it a catfight, so if there is such a duel - whose current winner is now called Antal Rogán, who receives a ministry, position, rank, order and courtship, well, I think that if there is such a struggle, at least it will not cost the Hungarian taxpayers if there is a way and opportunity. And perhaps I even asked that the family laundry should be washed at home, that it does not need to be brought before the House and that a ministry should be established, with special rules, so that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán can take some kind of power barrier to this kind of struggle. It should also be mentioned that there are three important points in this proposal that apply different rules to this ministry than to all other ministries. The number of colleagues employed in the contract of employment during the relevant year can be as large as in this ministry, the appointments are independent of the time of service, and there is a secretary of the Prime Minister's office that will either assist the work of Lazarus or the secretariat of the Rogán Ministry. I think if there were no rush, if it weren't for a catfight, and it wasn't for a power device, then the government that should have given it much better for their own work could have prepared these things much better. We still think it's worth reaching back to the classic roots and what's missing from this government, or maybe finding the division that the EMMI doesn't have to understand everything from the wrestling alliance to the Academy Senate. While environmental protection, health, education, social affairs and welfare matters are not sufficiently represented in one government, it is not propaganda that should be the most important, even if we will soon discuss the largest instrument of government propaganda, the media authority and the MTV operated by the media authority. We understand that the media is such a power, but in the governance structure, it might not be here, but at a much lower level. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-02-336	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2015-11-02-337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The only thing that can be said about setting up this ministry is that if the government could find a solution so quickly in all other important matters, I think we could say that Hungary has a good government. But that is not what we see, but what my fellow Member has said before me is that because of a catfight, two people could not stand side by side, and they did not sit so far apart, one had to be quickly made a minister. [[22.30]] In just two days, Antal Rogán was made a minister. Although today, I think that he was one of the peaks of his career when the voters approached him within the walls of Parliament on a particular matter, and he did not commend the voters to speak with them. This is what happened here in Parliament today - [[To intervene:]] No, I'm talking about Minister Antal Rogán - a group of Quaestor victims today wanted to speak to him personally. I think they had their reasons, because they had a number of statements about how bad the Quaestor was. He's revealed this several times. Compared to this, as soon as he was appointed Minister, he doesn't want to talk to the voters. I think that this five or six people who have been in Parliament today will never forget them. Although I might add that Lajos Kósa acted almost the same way, he was finally convinced when he heard that the victims came from Debrecen, and at least he was willing to leave the room and listen to these people. It is disappointing that today, in Hungary, people can get a ministerial position by seeing a fight within Fidesz, and if there is a fight, then it is possible to shut up someone's mouth. I think it has been unprecedented for the last 25 years to make someone a minister like this in Hungary today. I think that people will not forget this for themselves, they will be able to, they will note it, and we are eager to see how, after just a week, he took the ministerial oath - on the following occasions, Minister Rogán will feel as a minister to the voters, whether he will be able to perform anything at all, or that this picture will be created, that he has become a minister in Hungary in connection with the catfight. That's all we can tell you about this case. Thank you very much. [[A statement from Fidesz: This was a serious speech.]]
u2015-11-02-338	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] There's no candidate. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-02-339	Thank you very much for your opportunity to speak, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, It is interesting to see that those of the present MEPs who are monitoring soap operas, even if they missed out on tonight's Friends and For better or worse, could still listen to a soap opera written by MSZP in the interpretation of the representatives of the MSZP. Allow me, for just a few thoughts, to address the issues you have mentioned. Because, Congresswoman, it is worth mentioning that the Quaestor scandal is the first financial scandal in Hungary whose victims have been tried and partly compensated by the government. This was never the case when you led the country, for example, in the K&H scandal. It would be worth asking your current fellow Members or friends outside Parliament, who were then in government leadership, why they did not do so, and I am sure that this will also happen in the case of those who were looking for Minister Rogán today. Following the expo, the question of the governance structure was also discussed in the debate following the expo and in the Commission's debate. I would like to reiterate that the current structure of the governments that have received a mandate since the change of regime is the second smallest governance model produced by the ministerial structure of the previous Orbán government. So even in the current lineup, there are a fraction of the number of ministries and political leaders compared to the number of you leading the country. But I will go on, from 386 out of 386 of the political elite, there are 199 seats here today, thanks to the fact that this government has kept its promise in 2010 and has significantly reduced the number of Members of Parliament and representatives of the local government. However, beyond the framework, it is reassuring what Mr President repeated, if not in the context of our first meeting, that he does not dispute the possibility of government restructuring. I think that the current set-up can make a very big contribution to the development of a real dialogue between government actors, political actors and voters, which, if appropriate, may, even as a political by-product, may help to improve the assessment of the MSZP, because I think that in this House there are Members who are able to represent many times, even small communities, but community interests that I believe should be basically the basis for each of their work. I therefore thank the committee for their statements of support and ask the Honourable Parliament to support the relevant legislative amendments tomorrow and in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-11-02-340	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the day of the Hungarian sporadic presentation and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The H/6390, submitted by representatives of Zsolt Németh, Károly Panczél, Árpád János Potápi, Zsolt Semjén. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-02-341	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed H/6390, on 29 October 2015. a proposal for a decision on the day of the Hungarian sporadic, and in this context the House Rule 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report, with 31 votes in favour and a unanimous decision. The amended amendment, which was adopted, contains a proposal for a two-point amendment of the Committee on National Inclusion. At the meeting of the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin on 5 December 2014, the proposal was made - by the way, it may be worth mentioning that the Hungarian Permanent Conference had discussed this earlier in 2012 - in order for the Parliament to declare 15 November to be the day of the Hungarian Sporadic Day, since Gábor Bethlen, the greatest prince of Transylvania's golden age, was born on this day, 15 November 1580. The Transylvanian Hungarians have been celebrating the sporadic day for four years now. Furthermore, Hungary's Fundamental Law states that it is the duty of the current government and the mission of the Hungarian community to support Hungarians living in sporadics in as many ways as possible, in economic, cultural or political areas as possible. In this context, the Parliament calls on the institutions, organisations, public media and, of course, citizens to devote a special day as a sign of support for the sporadic Hungarians, and from now on every year on 15 November 2015 it will be celebrated jointly, and every year thereafter. The Committee on National Inclusion has proposed to include public media in the legislative text, as public media will help make the objectives set out in the proposal even more widely known and accepted. The Parliamentary resolution focuses attention on this area from the day of the Hungarian sporadic, and encourages the mother country and the bloc Hungary to take responsible steps, so please support me. Thank you for listening.
u2015-11-02-342	I ask whether you wish to speak on behalf of the government, Mr Nándor Csepreghy. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-02-343	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Congresswoman! Let us, very briefly, express our thanks on behalf of the Government for the unanimous support. There are few such cases before Parliament, in which this type of political consensus can be reached. Allow me to take a personal matter on the agenda, although it is not customary, because as a Transylvanian Hungarian, I think that any symbolic gesture that is a message to the Hungarians across the border is of paramount importance. [[22.40]] This is definitely what we consider to be the case. I believe that Jobbik's speech and comment in the Commission's debate can be accepted in the sense that symbolic gestures must be filled with content. I trust that both this and the latter will have a framework and form. I would therefore like to thank the committee for its support and propose that the draft be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-02-344	Thank you. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. There are no candidates, so the debate is closed. I'm guessing the author doesn't want to comment anymore. [[For signal:]] It indicates that there is no intention to comment, so the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the implementation of the 2014 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority follows. T/4907 submitted by the Committee on Budgets The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] There's no intention to apply. The representative of the Government has indicated that he does not wish to make his views known. The designated Committee for Culture did not present a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr. President Novak.
u2015-11-02-345	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is painful for us that, after we complained in the general debate that this was happening fairly outside of the television broadcasting period, we discussed the closing of the public media, while, unfortunately, the substantive report was not broadcast by television, and it was held outside the Cultural Committee in plenary, it was disturbed that we Members could not actually speak to it in contrast to previous years. In the beginning, we believe that the accounts should have been put on the agenda together with the report on the professional activities of the media authority, so that together, you can see what you have received, let's say, the media consumer, and how much this cost to taxpayers, or why there is still no balanced information, despite the legal requirements. That's why it hurts me that this debate has come to this, it's come to this. It is also unacceptable that the report on the implementation of the entire budget of the NMHH last year is both technically unacceptable and politically irresponsible. I would just like to point out that on which it appears that we have not received a reply from the Commission report, either, that the audit of the NMHH's financial statements is carried out by entrusting the auditor to verify the accounts from an accounting and legal point of view. However, this is not an independent external audit, because the auditor is entrusted and rewarded by the same body, the NMHH, which prepared the report, so the audit, although there is no reason - I repeat - to dispute professional correctness, but it is a specific internal audit, a self-control only. We also consider it to be a fundamental professional problem, and unfortunately, we have not been able to answer that either, that the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund accounts only for its revenue and expenditure, for changes in its financial status, such as growth and weight loss, as well as for the government's closure on the central budget. What is most amazing, and it seems that there has been no change in this matter either after the committee meeting, according to the Commission report, we have seen it on page 10. Amazing unscrupulousness, superficiality, that the MTVA accounts of more than 80 billion dollars on one page, and within that, more than 60 billion items will be settled with one single line, the title of which is that MTVA's media support and asset management activities are being financed. So a line, a few words, and they think that they accounted for 60 billion forints. Well, if this is fidesz accountability, then I think it speaks for itself quite well, even though it should be an explanation of this law. It is clearly behind this, and the lack of response only confirms this, that if we detail what it goes to, for example, everyone would see how much it actually has to produce, for example, and that other issues could be on the agenda, which, of course, will be swept under the carpet. We do not see the change, nor do we see the explanation that there is an amazing amount of money left over by the authorities as a remnant of HUF 38.2 billion, and this is only the 2014 report, while they constitute an amazing new reserve formation for the next year, perhaps it will now exceed HUF 50 billion. This HUF 38.2 billion lying in front of us is nearly twice the annual budget. They didn't tell me what to build up for, what kind of war situation or what they were up to. Informally, even before the 2014 elections, it was said that in order to lose the election, Fidesz would still have something for the public media to farm with their own people for a while, even if it were withdrawn from this Fidesz party TV, in fact, and from the network. But what they're saving money for now, and saving money, while they're saving money for a lot of other things, like, like, the introduction of the free internet, just to say one thing, we don't get it, we don't get it. Next year, another 9.1 billion will be deposited in addition to this year's unaccounted for extra reserve, and the government will take over HUF 47 billion from MTVA. So there are completely unexplained figures lying before us, so, in fact, this proposal is becoming increasingly unacceptable to us as the debate progresses. Indeed, the government must also be confronted with the fact that by 2014 only HUF 25 million of media service fees had been paid, so while the media was loud from the advertising tax, there was about the same decline here, since this ridiculous HUF 25 million should be opposed to the fact that in 2009 TV2 paid nearly HUF 2 billion, the RTL Club paid about HUF 1.8 billion, and then this amount fell significantly. We can also see other losses, if not precisely presented here, or at least read among the lines, because for example the failure to sell the other national radio frequency could mean a minus half a billion revenues, so it means a half a billion forints of revenue, as Advenio pays this much for Class FM, as we can at least see from this account, which, overall, I think, as the debate progresses, we can confirm this, completely - both professionally and politically - unacceptable to us. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-02-346	Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to Mr Simon Róbert Balázs for the next speech.
u2015-11-02-347	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak relatively briefly at this late hour, since we had a detailed debate on this issue two weeks ago. I speak as a member of the Cultural Committee. The Committee on Culture did not add an amendment to this agenda. The National Media and Infocommunication Authority's closing accounts are discussed by the National Assembly independently of the country's central budget, which is in itself a complex area, since it reports on the implementation of four separate budgets. And these are the following. One is the report by the National Media and Infocommunications Authority (NMHH), the second is the report by the Media Council of the Authority, the third is the material presenting the evolution of the revenue and expenditure of the Media Council outside the 2014 media market, and the fourth is the balance sheet of MTV, the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. To sum up, it contains fact data, and perhaps even to add one thought, the independent audit report found everything to be regular, so I, representing the majority position of the Committee on Culture, propose to adopt the document on the implementation of the 2014 National Media and Infocommunications Authority's single budget. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-02-348	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-11-02-349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we continued the debate two weeks ago, we also found it unworthy that, in the context of the debate, NMHH and MTVA could practically say that there was no representation in the debate. [[22.50]] The colleague was sitting where he is now, in the box, but the leaders of MTVA or the senior officials of NMHH did not line up and strengthen him. I don't want to repeat that this is the case now, because I would probably understand that if it hadn't happened the first time, but it's okay to remember that when we talk about HUF 63 billion in the budget for a given year - 2014 - in terms of NMHH, and if we connect it with the plus eight, we're talking about HUF 143 billion, which has been the largest financial resource in the last 5-6 years. It's obviously 2014. It's an interesting year. I do not want to go into political analyses, but there was also, in this sense, a future orientation of political interest in their thinking. My biggest problem, in fact, is that supervision works without opposition representation. If something operates without control, without internal opposition representation, then virtually the torso can easily develop, and it is obvious that, in a sense, news selection, the way in which government interests are carried out, many other things are easier. In Hungarian, Fidesz became a communication tool for public service media, and the NMHH, I cannot say anything else, obviously its contribution is necessary or necessary for all of this. At the time when I said that in 2014, MTV, NMHH has a total funding facility of HUF 143 billion, it is almost legal that Fidesz, the governing party, can keep the media under pressure. By moving and influencing such money, it is not possible to say that personal independence remains and persists. It cannot be said that there is financial or institutional independence. Rather, it can be said that those who cooperate can expect to be rewarded. And those who think a little differently, well, they can count on something else. I can tell you, in this sense, the public service has ceased to exist. There's a hard-core political influence on the media. And they do so by taking into account the planned budget figures for 2011 and 2016, MTVA and NMHH have a financial condition of over HUF 700 billion. I don't think I'm saying the wrong thing when I think and I say they're using public media as a paying place. I don't even want to talk about what I'm not saying anymore. It's based on other people's statements. I think there's a big problem at this point in time. I do not want to talk too much about what has already been said about other draft laws, why it is important to follow up on the resources put into motion by the state, how public procurement works. Or how and how procurement without public procurement can take place. I'm not going any deeper. I don't want to go through too much. I just want to say that I see the NMHH operating under government political influence as a service facility. They will enforce what the governing party itself has said: only Fidesz. It's the Fidesz, that's all. This is also clearly seen in terms of feedback on media platforms. In summary, and overall, I would like to say that if funds of this magnitude were used to achieve political interests, and in a distorted way, as I have seen in the last five years, it would not have been worth considering whether or not these large amounts of money might have been more useful, for example if a significant share of hospital debt had been used to reduce the debt of hospitals, or if the public liabilities and other debts of KLIK had been financed from all of this. One, perhaps just an interesting comparison I would definitely make. 2014 as I said, HUF 80 billion MTVA, HUF 63 billion NMHH, total HUF 143 billion. The planned figures of 2016 do not reach HUF 33 billion for funding the National Rescue Service. I can say the same thing that my fellow Members said about the previous draft law. We don't need propaganda, we don't need matching backup institutions that serve us, we need government agencies that solve people's troubles that work for people. It's not like they're trying to fool people. It would have been better to pay attention to this in recent times. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-02-350	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2015-11-02-351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The basic task of public services and public media would be to report people impartially. I think that my fellow Member said to me that this had ceased in Hungary after 2014, but then I would draw a parallel between two institutions: the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the KLIK itself, in some thoughts. Both are one big organization, it can be said, the state-run giga organization, maintained by taxpayers, and in essence both, despite the state pumping hundreds of billions of forints a year, which we are talking about here, or tens of billions forints, but together we are talking about hundreds of billions forints, and every year it accumulates tens of billions forints in debt, as well as KLIK and NMHH. In front of me, Mr Gúr said that not only impartiality has now ceased in the public media, but, in essence, we are also meeting with news counterfeiting every day, especially in statements and press conferences by opposition representatives. I'd like to say one more thing. By the way, the government has done everything in its power to change the image in the public media. Especially when the Orbán-Simicska War broke out, we saw the redecoratings, but essentially nothing has changed, people continue to be provided with false news. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Every day by public media. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-02-352	I give the floor to Congressman Attila Szabolcs.
u2015-11-02-353	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, The 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. Law No. 34. Pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the Act, the National Media and Infocommunication Authority shall submit its accounts for the previous year by 31 May of each year, which shall be adopted by the National Assembly in an independent law. This legal obligation was complied with by the authority when it sent the accounts to the Committee on Budgets on 20 May. [[23.00]] The committee discussed them at its meeting on 26 May and submitted them to Parliament. The general debate took place on 19 October. No amendments were tabled to the draft closing act submitted. The institutional annual budgetary accounts were consulted by independent auditors invited by the Authority and the Media Council, according to which the accounts provide a reliable and fair view of the implementation of the budgets and the financial, financial and income situation on 31 December 2014. The draft includes the revenue and expenditure of the NMHH and the Media Council of the NMHH for the year 2014. The 2014 closing report submitted by NMHH reports 27 billion HUF 74.2 million in revenue and 25 billion HUF 380.2 million in expenditure. I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill in the light of the above. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-02-354	Thank you very much. I do not see any further comments, so the debate is closed, and the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the 2016 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority will follow. T/6369 submitted by the Committee on Budgets The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask the author, Attila Szabolcs, if he wishes to speak. [[On Attila Szabolcs' signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2015-11-02-355	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, The National Media and Infocommunications Authority was established with effect from 11 August 2010, which should cover its expenditure on its own revenue and budgetary contribution. Under the Media Services and Public Communications Act, the Authority's single budget includes both the budget of the NMHH, the NMHH Media Council and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. On 14 September, the president of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority submitted the draft bill to the Committee on Budgets. The Committee on Budgets discussed the bill at its meeting on 29 September and decided to submit it. Parliament already held the general debate at its meeting on 19 October, so I would like to repeat the most important points briefly. The budget of the NMHH for 2016. The Authority's total revenue for 2016 amounts to HUF 32 billion and HUF 299.6 million. The NMHH's public revenue consists essentially of administrative service charges, charges paid for the use of the frequency, connection and use of identifiers, supervisory fees and fines and late payment allowances collected. The budget of the NMHH Media Council for 2016. The planned amount to cover the operating costs of the Media Council is HUF 173.9 million, which includes the Media Council's personal benefits, contributions and the expert framework for their professional activities. The budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund for 2016. Under the Media Services and Public Communications Act, commercial and asset management revenues belong to MTVA. The fund's total expenditure and revenue is HUF 77 billion and HUF 695.9 million. The development and detail of the proposal show well the management of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, which is confirmed by the appropriation of their budget for next year. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-02-356	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2015-11-02-357	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I could also say that I have very few fellow Members. Although this is an interesting debate where we are arguing with ourselves, I am also a member of the committee that is the author of this budget, but I think that we should also say that even if the government is not present, and we must also say that even if there are not too many of the governing parties present. We have also said it several times in the general debate, but I think it must be mentioned once again that the Committee on Budgets, as its rapporteur, is effectively a host in this case, since the National Media and Communications Authority itself is so independent of the legislation that, for example, it is impossible to ask, interpelly, or even interpel the Minister of the Government in their case, and yet we see that it is only public money that is running out there. We do not think that the budget that has been put forward is detailed enough, so that we can have a proper view on this matter, and we must in any case say it on the critical side. They expect the National Media and Infocommunications Authority to provide us with real and transparent data in a reasonable detail, even if we are trying to verify implementation, especially if we are present as nationalists, and one of the Standing Committees of Parliament is present in this. There are a few things that need to be mentioned here. On request, we managed to specify on a separate request, for frequency charges of almost two thirds of the budget, what the modest amount of HUF 18.9 billion is, although it is not offensive, which, I say again, represents about two thirds of the budget, a little less than that to turn towards justice, so it makes less, but a significant amount, I think, this is the amount. They did this on special request, and we had to ask for it for the second time, they didn't do it in the first year, they did it this year, so maybe next year we can ask questions in this respect. In terms of transparency and communication of real data, I have a problem with the fact that there is always a huge reserve in the Authority's budget, which, compared to the Authority's budget, is now escaping to a huge reserve of almost a third of the HUF 10 billion, along with last year's remaining reserves. They're always trying to burden it with a task. I have two problems here: the tasks that are constantly being said to us at the committee's meeting, or sometimes here in Parliament, my fellow Members of the majority, those tasks either do not take place or do not take place in that way. My other problem in this case is that if this amount, which is considered as a reserve in the budget, is actually charged with a task, then this should simply be the task of replacing the line of reserve, and then it would be transparent and real. In addition to the fact that, of course, we consider it excessive and we consider it excessive in terms of current wage development and staff development, but we will not support it because of non-compliance with the principles of transparency, credibility and rational detail. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-02-358	I now give the floor to Mr. President Novak.
u2015-11-02-359	Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, this budget is not detailed enough for the Parliament to have a substantive say in what we want from taxpayers' money, so we should not be surprised if, for example, historical films will not be made again at MTVA, while during the raiding of Andy Vajna at the Film Fund, historical themes are essentially exhausted in Holocaust films. [[23.10]] The practice in Hungary that there are two budgets for one country is unknown all over Europe. Well, that's what's really going on here. The NMHH is not part of public finances, although normally there could be a chapter in the central budget, such as the Constitutional Court or the Parliament. The media authority, on the other hand, has a management structure that is actually a state in the state, not part of the central budget as a chapter, in fact, its president cannot be asked here in Parliament, there is no substantive control over Parliament, although many things could be asked, but we do not know as well as the attorney general. In fact, we cannot contact the government's representative in any media matter himself, as he says that it is an autonomous authority, a non-governmental authority, while the blind can see that there is manual control, party control not only in the public media; the whole media is possessed by Fidesz. Only the Fidesz password won when only the members of the Fidesz were allowed to sit in the successor of the ORTT, the Media Council, where all parliamentary couples had delegates before. After all this, we can see here a budget for which, in a cynical, brazen way, I think it's amazing that we don't get an answer to what this extraordinary reserve is. For example, from 28 percent of the budget now, the author cannot say what he wants to spend it on, but he should be there because there is some sort of reserve. We're talking about HUF 9.1 billion, a lot of money. Not to mention that with the previous ones, it may now exceed HUF 50 billion in this amazing reserve, and they won't tell us what for. If this were the only mistake of the NMHH budget for next year, it would not be possible to support this bill. But it is also unacceptable that this year the government will take over MTVA's HUF 47.2 billion debt by amending the budget. This inherited debt represents the acceptance of the loan for the purchase of the new production base in Óbuda, because in 2012 a loan package of HUF 63 billion was taken from four banks, partly for the purchase of the Kunigunda Street building and partly for the replacement of previous loans. This is very painful for us because, in spite of the many requests we have made here in recent years, we have asked to investigate one of the biggest scandals of the MSZP-SZDSZ administration, the case of the Cunegund Street TV Headquarters; nothing has happened, and now it looks like it is finally being swept under the carpet by the government taking over the outstanding debts and closing the case. It is worth looking at the budget even from the point of view that in February 2015 the news reported that MTVA had been relieved of 177 of its staff because it wanted to rationalise the costs. In English, he made cuts. Despite this, he hired new people on the basis of the new programming structure, who received a prominent multimedia journalist status, including the son of President János Áder. According to the trade unions, the negotiations with the employer revealed that despite the previous claims of MTVA, the reduction of 177 employees did not save any or even increased expenditure by hiring new workers. Also during the winter atlatszo.hu reported how well it pays to blog on the five thematic blogs launched by public media. According to the published contracts, for example, Tamás Lánczi at the end of the century receives a gross monthly HUF 380 thousand as a blogger, and in addition, he receives an individual remuneration for the posts. But here is also Deputy State Secretary Gergely Prőhle and Mayor Károly Szita Fideszes, former III/II agent, who reported even his relatives, well-known and proven. Now you will receive a gross HUF 250,000 fixed to collect your own blog. But they're both still allowed extra cash if they write posts, posts. Or here is András Cser-Palkovics, Mayor Zsolt Pécs Páva and Ákos Kriza Fidesz in Miskolc. They get a fee, too. But how much they didn't tell us, let alone in the proposal before us, but not anyway. All it turns out is that they can take on a salary based on an individual assessment. I think that, after what they have done so far, we could call it incomprehensible, but it is rather understandable that, in June this year, the majority of the governments in the Parliament Budget Committee supported the amendment that excluded the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund from the scope of the Public Procurement Act in two areas. Thus, MTVA, which operates the public media, does not need to intervene either in its programmes or in its means of producing the programmes. I regret that there are no consequences to any of our proposals, not even to what could be inserted into your system, because, for example, now there is no point in Duna Media Services Zrt. and the separation of MTVA. It would be easier to unite these two and put them under the public foundation, as I urged here in the general debate. Unfortunately, we have not received any answers to these substantive points here or on the committee. I am sorry that the authority of the National Assembly is so ignored not only by the head of the NMHH, who does not participate in these debates, but also by the hands-laundering attitude of the governing parties themselves, as we know very well that the government is responsible for all this financial waste and for these omissions, whether it is the failure to comply with the laws that are taking place in public media. Thank you for your attention. [[Ander Balázs applauds.]]
u2015-11-02-360	I now give the floor to Congressman Robert Balázs Simon.
u2015-11-02-361	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On 19 October, in the general debate, we were already able to listen to the rapporteur's exposé, which, as a matter of budget, contained a great deal of figures for the 2016 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, precisely in relation to its draft budget, since we will be able to talk about a budget when this is adopted. The analysis of the activities of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is within the competence of the Cultural Committee, and I myself am a member of the Committee, so we are well aware of the diverse work behind the numbers. I used to work as deputy mayor of Győr County in two cycles, 2006-2014, and Győr has a budget of approximately HUF 40 billion. I have been involved in the preparation of this budget several times myself. I mention this because the word "good" or "bad" cannot be used for a budget. You can say it's enforceable or not. I believe that this draft budget for the National Media and Infocommunication Authority can be implemented, thoughtful and thoughtful, and on this basis, and on the basis of our arguments set out in detail on 19 October, the Fidesz fraction itself proposes and will support this draft budget. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-02-362	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2015-11-02-363	[[No microphones.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll pick up where my fellow chef left off. Technically, it may seem like a repeated sentence if I say that the governing parties serve as a means of communication for the Fidesz...
u2015-11-02-364	Excuse me, is the microphone even on?
u2015-11-02-365	You're right, Mr. President.
u2015-11-02-366	It's gonna be hard.
u2015-11-02-367	I beg your pardon. Thank you very much. So, yes, I'll start where my fellow chef left off. The fact that Fidesz and the governing parties act virtually not differently, but by using the public service media as a means of communication, and once again, this is happening practically with the involvement of the NMHH. I'm aware that the NMHH itself has its own revenue. That's okay, that's okay. It wouldn't be a problem if there was more than there is. I am also aware that the planned budget figures for 2016 amount to HUF 32,3 billion, but what is my biggest problem with all of this is that there is a reserve of more than HUF 9 billion that no one can see that these magnitudes are now being used for, HUF 9000 million, what is the reserve direction for which these funds are practically used. [[23.20]] Basically, what makes news selection stronger, breaking news, and Fidesz doing what's in the government's best interests? Is it for the service of the propaganda industry, or is it for the financing of news silences, or is it for the financing of forgery? So, we should see tangible, clear, clear figures, that if we are talking about a budget, we are looking for a reserve of HUF 9 billion. I'm asking you to answer that. If I take into account the order of HUF 32,3 billion and the order of HUF 77 billion allocated to MTVA, then there we are again talking about the order of HUF 120 billion, which is shown at the level of MTVA and the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. It's huge money, it's huge money! As I said, or just suspected, this is four times what is expected to be available for funding the National Rescue Service in 2016. But only the budget of the NMHH itself is in fact in the same order of magnitude, if I take into account the amount of the reserve above HUF 9 billion, then it is much bigger. In the meantime, it is for the people - not the NMHH - that there should be no misunderstanding, but the National Rescue Service - and I see that I cannot say that it is for the people, but for the people - quoted in quotes - for their stunning, for influencing people's consciousness, in the sense that it is only in the interests of the governing parties or in the interests of Fidesz. Yes, once again, the same thought arises, which has already been said several times in the House's walls, from the mouths of others: only Fidesz. I see that everything about the propaganda industry or the NMHH or the MTVA as a financing background is about this: only Fidesz. And I think that this is absolutely wrong, that this path should not be walked. Technically, financial resources that are not their own, are not their own, because what is in the hands, pockets and backs of the state can be derived from all the material goods produced, so they are not yours, they are not their own, so they should not be reflected in their own personal political interests through the spending of these resources. Therefore, I will return to my statements on the approval of the 2014 draft budget, it is necessary to have virtually control at the level of supervision, because otherwise normal functioning will never be restored. And perhaps I will conclude by saying that it would be good for you and those who provide you with these resources, that no, not just the Fidesz; only the country, only the people in the country and their interests. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-02-368	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed, and I will ask Mr Attila Szabolcs whether or not to comment. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. For the first time in the speech after the agenda, Mr President Novák applied:. Sharing in Fidesz: István Tarlós supports the removal of the communist authoritarian monument, not called the government. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-369	Dear Parliament, As November 4th approaches, let us face the shameful fact, the communist propaganda monument, which contains not even the tombs of Liberty Square in Budapest, but which, in principle, contains forbidden symbols of authoritarianism, is still the glory of the liberating Soviet heroes! There's an inscription. To the glory of the Soviet Imperial Army that occupied and occupied our country for half a century, its soldiers raped our women, our daughters and hundreds of thousands of our compatriots on a raspberry robot, a large part of whom died in inhumane conditions in the camps of the Soviet Union, and when our people rebelled against the unbearable regime they dictated in 1956, our freedom struggle was brutally crushed. By leaving this occupation monument in the heart of the capital city, the governments have given the final coup d'état of grace to the whole change of regime, which was based on the fact that we have said that the event, which has been known as the Soviet liberation since 45, was actually an occupation. The Hungarian-Russian treaty of war tombs would provide an opportunity to relocate the monument, but we should take advantage of it at last. Since 2004, there have been regular protests about communist obelisk, and I even filed a complaint about the supposedly forbidden symbols of authoritarianism more than ten years ago. With György Budaházy and Dr. Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, we have contacted several national organisations, including the national presidency of Jobbik this spring, so on behalf of these national organisations, Mr.István Tarlós, who also received us from his chief of staff. The Mayor turned to the government for our initiative to remove the monument, but because of Csaba Hende's reply, which he finally sent to us, the case ended unsuccessfully and did not start, although in September 2014 Tamás Sneider asked my fellow groupman Csaba Hende himself stated that the Ministry would give any support to the relocation of such monuments. Well, in September I turned to the new Minister of Defence, István Simicskó, to eliminate this contradiction with a written question, but he also rejected the initiative that was now supported by the Mayor. In contrast to the lies of atv.hu, Jobbik is united in the communist monument of Szabadság tér, its removal is included in our program, unfortunately only in our program, and Fidesz is divided, because István Tarlós supports its removal, but the Orbán government refuses to move. If such a great swastika stood at the other end of Freedom Square, in a similar way, with a sign of glory to allied German heroes, would they tolerate the symbol of authoritarianism equally forbidden, saying it is also part of our history? András Pongráz, who played a decisive role in the overthrow of Stalin statue, called for this year's anniversary of the Kossuth tér ÁVH series fire with thousands of deaths to remove the authoritarian symbols of Liberty Square. Nevertheless, in many cases the media called the civil disobedience action my own self-confidence, even though hundreds of us were there to call the hero of '56. Of course, the final settlement of the monument can only take place in a negotiated manner. The question now is whether we will put up with government in opposition without end. Even if it was a bit of a comedian, I'll admit it, but it was the only way to break the media's stimuli threshold, after more than ten years of our struggle, we managed to make the communist propaganda monument a subject of public speaking. And I'm not hiding behind my immunity right now, no matter what the consequences of a police investigation and a report on my civil disobedience. Even if we didn't do what the country required, but it was good for a national minimum, we shouldn't be ashamed of Gergely Pongráz's heavenly gaze. I quote Viktor Orbán, who said in 1989, in the speech of the Heroes' Squares, among other things: our goals have not changed until today, we do not allow from 48, so we cannot allow from 56. In spite of his beautiful words, Orbán said: "We are not dressed in such a way as to justify doing nothing against the Gyurcsány regime." After this famous saying, I also wanted to avoid the appearance of having received a police line at the Soviet memorial in the form of paper, that I would just turn back. I admit, I pushed the action a little too far with a hero in '56, but I think it's better than not pushing the case in any way, because there's a lot of politics and the National Assembly that cut off the change of regime. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's chief of staff promised to settle the Soviet monument before the 2002 elections, but this promise did not become anything. If it was put to the vote in 1956 whether there should be a revolution or whether Stalin's statue should be overthrown, obviously the non-votes win, I agree with the boys in Pest, and it is also our task to shape public thinking on the occasion of November 4. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-02-370	After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs applied for the next speech:. The Minister of Land Sharing from the plough of the plough to politics. You have the floor, Congressman. [[23.30]]
u2015-11-02-371	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This weekend, on the occasion of the 91st anniversary of his death, we remembered XX. perhaps the most significant peasant-born small farmer of the century, István Nagyatádi Szabó. We saluted not only the famous son of Somogy County, Csokonyavisonta, but in the name of Jobbik, with the wreaths placed in the garden of the Reformed Cemetery and at the tomb, but also in the name of Jobbik. For a good two centuries, Thomas Jefferson himself thought that farmers were the most valuable citizens, because they are the most powerful, they are the most independent, they are the most virtuous, and they are linked to their country with the most lasting bond, insisting on their freedom and interests. István Nagyatádi Szabó was also such a man. As famous agricultural historian Lajos Für wrote in his monumental work Farewell to peasantry, Europe's largest and most time lived, preserving and creating social form was nothing more than peasantry. The peasantry for which he had done so much for the elimination of XX. and Article 21 (2) (a) Company. It's enough that only the II. I refer to the violence following World War II, the attic sweeps or the national settlement network development concept adopted in 1971, which gave the death sentence to two thirds of our settlements for small villages inhabited by two million people, declaring them non-participated. All this continued after the change of regime, and the extreme liberals looked at the Hungarian village as a medieval, and therefore as a derelict. An enemy was seen among his people, whose great apostle, most important advocate of a century ago, was István Nagyatádi Szabó. But who was he who went to politics from the plow to the plow? He was able to remain a small farmer in his home village, Chocolate, but he was able to become a statesman when he went to parliament. He who has been able to meet the criteria of László Németh for the rest of his life, according to which people's lives are bound by strong conventions, his custom is stricter, and there the handshake has its own movement, as well as shame, and which is the criterion that István Nagyatádi Szabó could meet. You could say that his whole life was a model of the basics of peasant life, but strict etiquette. István Szabó Nagyatádi's father was still a jealous serf of the Széchenyiek, and his son had no wealth, despite the tense work, the reformate economy, Calvinist diligence and the ministerial velvet chair, as he had no more than 45 acres at the end of his life. This could also be the case for today's policy trails referring to family cooperation. He also said that he was not a politician for a living, as he said: "I have already gone home from the velvet chair twice, and I will do it a third time if I am no longer needed. After all, he was an eternal fan of the Hungarian land, in his heart he felt an unquenchable love for the flowery Somogyi loops. He was entitled to my gracious lord's address, but he was happiest when he was called my brother Pista. On the other hand, he mastered his former teacher, Daniel Szalóky, even as a minister. In 1908, at the age of 45, he became a Member of Parliament, and, as the contemporary newspapers put it, this simple landowner kept a mirror in front of the house, so that today's administration, today's legislation, could see the life of today's village. He was the first member of the Hungarian Parliament with boots and peasants, and if he lived today, he would certainly not be wearing a tight suit. According to the anecdote, when he first appeared, he considered the Gucci and Louis Vuittons of that time to be some sort of errand boy, but István Szabó Nagyatádi said without being offended, looking around, that there would be a hired man. He became the Minister of Land Sharing, since his name was linked to Law No 36 of 1920, according to which 400,000 poor rural families were given some estate. For real farmers with crusty palms, whose successors will certainly not bid on the auction of state lands, let's say that the now dumped would be 200 hectares of small or 400 million land estates in Adam or Göllé. As Prime Minister Gyula Gömbös said of the leader of the small farmer: István Nagyatádi Szabó grew out of the ground like wheat, like the Hungarian oak. As their roots gripped into the Hungarian soil, István Nagyatádi's roots grabbed into the Hungarian soul. I ask my fellow Members to try to grow up to the standard set by István Szabó Nagyatádi. Blessed be his memory. Thank you for your attention. [[Novak's First Clap.]]
u2015-11-02-372	Speaking after the next agenda, Mr Péter Ágh asked for a speech with the title "Chepreg" for 20 years. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-02-373	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, This year we remembered that Csepreg, located in the northern part of Vas county, was inaugurated 20 years ago, in 1995. On this anniversary, it is fitting to bow down to this beautiful city here in the house of the country. Although a stranger might think of the 20th anniversary as a young settlement, he actually has a very long history. This year it was 760 years ago that his name was mentioned in a diploma for the first time in 1255. At this point, it could have been one of the most important settlements in the area. In the 1300s it was called a civitas. It is known for its address before 1362. King Sigismund gave it to the Kanizsai in 1390, so it became a field town. In 1452, he was taken by Hussites, but they were later beaten out of the city. CHAPTER XVI Csepreg once again gained outstanding importance in the century, and the Sopron County Assembly had several venues. At that time, it could have been one of the largest agricultural towns in Hungary. CHAPTER XVI In the century, most of the population became Protestants. Between 1557 and 643 there was already a college. Here in June 1591 was the Protestant council where the separation of the two major Protestant churches in Western Hungary, the evangelicals and the Reformeds were decided. During the 30-year war, in 1621 the Csepreg, who was part of the Bethlen Gábor party, was devastated by the emperor's armies. 1223 inhabitants were victims of the cruel slaughter. At this time, the city was the most important settlement in the region, alongside Sopron and Kőszeg, with several celebrities, an increasing population, and an ongoing Lutheran cultural life. Contrary to other Hungarian agricultural towns, the city was served by a mayor, an independent court. In the village between 1621 and 1643 a printer operated under the leadership of Imre Farkas. The owners, the Nádasdyak, contributed to this outstanding era of the settlement. In 1676, after the Wesselényi conspiracy, the city became imperial property. In 1776 it was destroyed by a fire, and its 167 houses became equal to the earth. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. The century brought prosperity again in the life of the city. Rail transport was opened in 1865 on the Sopron-Szombathely-Nagykanizsa railway line. In 1876 the district was established, the centre of which became Csepreg in 1886. In 1887, Chaplain Sándor Farkas' monograph Csepreg's history of the agricultural town was published. CHAPTER XX At the beginning of the century, the city's public life evolved even further. In 1913, traffic could also start on the railway line Sárvár-Bük-Csepreg-Kőszeg. In World War I, 172 died heroically, while World War II died. World War II claimed 84 casualties. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. During World War II, the Jewishness of the area was collected in the Chepreg ghetto and deported from there. In 1950, unfortunately, the district of Twelfth was abolished and attached to Vas County. The settlement was not idle during the revolution and the war of freedom in.56, as I am proud to note that one of the national guards was my grandfather, Károly Hollósi. In the Kádár system, in 1974, the railway line Sárvár-Répcevis, which had already been cut off by the time, was discontinued, which hindered the development of Csepreg. On July 1st, 1995, the former village was given an urban title. Dear Parliament, Now, after recalling the chronicle, it is necessary to bow down to all the taverns who, through their work, sacrifice, and struggles, have survived in the past centuries. We can be grateful to those of the generations ahead of us that they have preserved this city for us so that we can continue to love and build it. Now, in the twentieth year of the inauguration of the city, I wish that God may cheer the Chirps, and God bless the Chirps. Thank you for your attention. [[23.40]]
u2015-11-02-374	In response to the next agenda, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély spoke with the title "The Hunger Games." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-02-375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are fewer and fewer of us within the walls of Parliament. My speech after today's agenda was inspired by the minimum national day if it had been established. On the Hungarian government's part, the result of the stricter conditions and public work for aid was that between 150 and 200 thousand people were excluded from social care in Hungary. If we add children living in these households as losers of the system, then we can say that there were one and a half million people living in households in which no one worked on paper. Overall, 210,000 out of 380 000 jobseekers remained without care, which is a good example of the fact that the work-based society announced by the Fidesz-KDNP government is not just a government lonzunge. Many people can agree with this, not to work, not to eat, but it is no longer a success in any circle when we experience it most on children. Half of the families with three or more children, one third of their children alone, were potential poor, and it follows that 22 percent of the children in Hungary are at risk of poverty. In Hungary, a civil initiative has been launched, which has caused civilians and the majority of the artistic world to close together, so to speak, and they have tried to take a civil initiative towards the government and to draw attention to the serious problem of hunger in Hungary today. These civilians have asked for the help of political parties. Since civil society is essentially unable to participate in legislation today in Hungary, nothing else could be done, the political parties were asked to take the lead in this noble cause. It seemed that everyone in Hungary could agree with these principles today regardless of political affiliation. I would just like to list three points from this minimum programme.1. (3) The Parliament considers the fight against child hunger, the elimination of child hunger to be part of the national minimum. Parliament declares that guarantee rules relating to the prevention and elimination of child hunger must be laid down in law. Point 4: Parliament calls on the Government to submit the budget rules to Parliament in such a way as to enable all minors to have a warm meal at least once a day, and to provide adequate nutrition for the development of the fetus to any pregnant mother who is in Hungary, but who would not have access to this for reasons relating to either permanent or temporary property, income or other living conditions. We're talking about hot food once a day. Today in the People's Welfare Committee, the outrageous thing happened that this proposal for a resolution, which was proposed by Katalin Csöbör Fideszes MP, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély MSZP MP, Dóra Dúró Jobbikos Member of Parliament, Zsuzsa Szelényi, Member of Parliament of the Association, Gábor Fodor, Member of the Liberals Parliament, Timea Szabó, MP of the PM, Bernadett Szél, MEP of the LMP Parliament, MEP László Varju, MEP of DK, has signed, today the majority of the Fideszes-KDNP voted or abstained in the People's Welfare Committee, can not essentially be admitted to the plenary session. The only reason I didn't mention Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of KDNP, in the list is because they were already excluded from signing this OGY decision. Today, it is the government that speaks of support for families and support for children, which cannot represent such a national minimum, that the current government in Hungary will consider it important to eliminate this issue. We are talking about child poverty and child hunger. On behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP government, Members voted against this today. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2015-11-02-376	Mr Nándor Gúr asked to speak after the last agenda:, on the protection of those in need. You have the floor.
u2015-11-02-377	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The country can't afford a decent remuneration for home care, says the so-called authorities. The care fee has been the same for years, and it is not enough to starve to death. Why is it not work, why cannot the activities of severely disabled people at home be financed? Why don't you raise the amount of this prize? - we can ask the question. You can say in the answer that it is obvious that 47,000 forints will not make a living. But not even from the minimum wage of 68,775 forints. Then how can it be 29,500 forints? Or the net worth of 26 550 forints? Look, 29,500 HUF for 24 hours of work in the process, where there is no freedom, because caring for the patient is not like taking a leave of absence! And in the case of people with serious disabilities, there are thousands of problems that many do not even think about, who do not want to answer the questions. I must also add that if care is provided within the institutional system, it will cost much more. There are 70-75 thousand HUF normatives according to my knowledge. There have been promises. Orbán also promised - no one will be left alone, no one will be left on the side of the road - but János Halász also said in 2011 that we will increase the rate of care in 2012. And Parliament has often said: our economy is strong, it is growing stronger. If that is the case, then I ask you, perhaps rightly: the economic situation of the country does not allow, for 60 to 70 thousand people, on the one hand, an activity that is socially valuable and valued, within the framework of an employment relationship and with adequate remuneration? Think about it, if the nurse - I mean, who tends to people with serious disabilities at home - gets sick, she can't go on sick leave. If God doesn't give, the nurse dies, then the person who cared for him can only dream of job-seeking or earning benefits. 26 550 forints. 26 550 HUF and has remained unchanged for five years since 30 April 2010. Where is humanity behind all these questions or in terms of the answer? And if I add that many who care for people with serious disabilities even received housing support - in a few thousand forints, on average, in the order of four thousand forints - they have also eliminated this and made their situation worse, then I have to say that the present government is not very sensitive to people who take on their shoulders to solve serious social problems and do so in a much more cost-effective way than it can be done in institutional terms. The question comes again and again: why can't home care for people with serious disabilities be classified as work? And why don't you want to raise the fee for this? There have been promises, although some ministries have been unable to respond for 11 months. There were promises: Minister Balog, Péter Harrach, Szilárd Németh, Bence Tuzson, Zsolt Semjén, Richárd Tarnai and many others. They said they'd change. They said they'd take the initiative. I'd like to see the results. [[23.50]] Don't make promises, just act. Change this situation, because people who carry on and take on this activity deserve it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-02-378	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, and we will resume the meeting tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 11:51 p.m.]] Nándor Gúr s. k.
