u2015-06-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The first day of the first extraordinary meeting of the Parliament will be opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dezső Believer will be attending the meeting to help me. I respectfully welcome our guests and all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We remember the martyrs of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. It's 59/02. According to Parliamentary Resolution No.56, our commemoration will be held in the presence of the historic flags, among them the national flag, which became a symbol of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. I ask you to stand up and honor the historic flags, the national flag and the memory of the heroes. [[The president, the congressmen and the guests stand up. The fanfares speak, the commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the President's pulpit, and requests permission from the chairman in the middle of the Chamber to import historic flags and the 1956 national flag, who grants permission. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the flags will march on both sides of the presidential pulpit, and then the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Twenty-six years ago, on the 31st anniversary of the execution of Imre Nagy, Miklós Gimes and Pál Maléter, the nation buried the Prime Minister and his martyrs as well as the sixth coffin representing the heroes and victims of the 1956 Hungarian Revolution and War of Independence. On 16 June 1989 Imre Nagy, Géza Losonczy, Miklós Gimes, Pál Maléter, József Szilágyi and their fellows who sacrificed their lives for Hungarian freedom had a sublime but decades late day of mourning. Their remarrying was more than just a memorial service. On June 16, 1989, Imre Nagy and his martyred, tar-papered, wired and face-deep truth, let's say, the truth and spirit of 1956 were released on the basis of falsified history and retributive court judgments. It has been said many times that the redeployment of the martyr's Prime Minister and his associates was a symbolic stage in the process of the change of regime. Dear Parliament, Twenty-six years later, new facts, documents, and analyses are still emerging, which raise further questions. We know that this is the case with regard to the greatest events and personalities in history, even looking back for centuries. However, it should never be a question that the Hungarian nation and the people's will were manifested in the revolution and freedom struggle of 1956. Nor can it be a question that the communist retaliation was driven not only by bloodthirsty revenge, but also by the conscious determination to discourage Hungarians from defending their national identity and interests, possibly for ever, with political murders. Nor can it be questioned that Imre Nagy was not the traitor, but those who sentenced him to death. Imre Nagy was exalted in the martyrium and became a symbol of freedom and national independence. The Hungarians could not be deterred forever with these judgments and murders, but it took a quarter of a century for history and our preparation to mature the time when the true people's judgment took place in the space of the Heroes, with a huge crowd. On behalf of the Hungarian youth Sándor Rácz, representing the 56s, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's speech there and then, with the symbolic closure of an era, suggested a new perspective, and with him the hope that we will not only be released from the pressure of a dark age, but that we can finally decide freely about our own affairs, and this desired moment of freedom has come to an accessible distance. All that happened to us in the next quarter of the century partially confirmed and partially denied our hopes that occurred at that time. Dear Parliament, It is our well-awaited interest and moral duty to keep in mind and in our hearts the memory of 56 of our dead, martyrs; never forget that in the great historical moments there has always been and there will always be Hungarian cooperation, how it was in 56 and June 1989 in the field of Heroes. Thank you for your attention. Dear Parliament, I ask you to stand up and honor the departure of the historic flags and the national flag. [[The people in this room stand up. The commander of the decorative guard comes forward, and the flags leave the meeting room at the sound of the fanfares. The president and the people present will sit down.]] [[9.10]] Dear Parliament, I welcome the President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the European Parliament, Mr Elmar Brok, who is sitting in the decorative box. On behalf of the Parliament and myself, we wish you successful negotiations and a pleasant stay on the occasion of your visit to Budapest. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech:, How many schools will be closed until September? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-06-16-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Schools had their last day of school yesterday, and the holidays started today. At the start of the September school year, we might have thought that this would be a calmer school year. In the previous cycle, new educational laws were pushed through forcefully, and all the relevant legislation was rewritten. We had the right to believe that they would only correct things, but no major changes could be expected. A bad system has been built that undermines social development and ascension even more than before, thinking about the nationalised school system, the age of school commitment delivered, the over-expansion basic curriculum, the poor quality public textbooks or the segregation of Bridge programmes. In recent years, however, legislation amendments have been adopted that are revoking public education and higher education. Everyone's gone on vacation today, but the really delicate questions are just coming up. As of 1 July, profile cleaning begins in public education, which is the equivalent of school closures and downsizings in government terms. In the context of the transformation of the vocational training system, the government has issued a death sentence for dozens of high schools. The NGM takes over 300 vocational schools and secondary schools from KLIK, of which 80 institutions have vocational secondary schools and high schools working together. In the future, these high schools can be separated and closed. School closures threaten to leave more walks without high school. The closure of high schools also leads directly to the degeneration of higher education, as they cut off the replacement of higher education students. They're doing this for all the reasons they're trying to get students into vocational training. The aim is to increase the number of VET participants by 20,000. They can only do this at the expense of high school. All signs point to this, which has been discussed many times before, most recently the hidden vocational training strategy. In Viktor Orbán's mind, there is a false idea that today a profession is worth more than the possibility of graduation and further education. The statistics on the labour market or wages show the exact opposite in vain. It subordinates education to the distorted economic philosophy of the Fidesz-KDNP government. They have given up on Hungary's goal to compete with high value added workers, high knowledge, high qualifications and high wages in the world. Last week, János Lázár said that we can't compete with Western European wages in the next 20 years; of course they can't, because they don't want to. They are based on assembly plants from abroad, where vulnerable workers work for low wages. They want to make Hungary attractive by keeping wages low and by lowering labour rights guarantees. They want to make some of the high schools into vocational schools because they don't want students to go to college, get a degree, break out. If this were to happen, the Orbán economic model would fail. With the closure of 80 high schools, we would indeed succeed in cutting away 20,000 young people's access to high school and subsequent further education. They're trying to get them into vocational training. However, without a qualitative reinforcement of vocational training, a significant part of the vocational training staff leads to assembly plants, where minimum wage is maximum. [[It's constant noise.]] Dear House, Fidesz-KDNP would like to see a worker-poverty assembly country. The May Other is Politics, on the other hand, believes in the knowledge-based society, the creative economy. We wouldn't close any high school. If the reason for closing the high school is that there is an inadequate level of education, the aim could be to improve quality, not to close the institution. Possibly Other Politics calls on the government to announce a school closure stop. Don't close any schools, don't lock any students away from high school, from college. Take a guarantee that there will be at least one high school in each district, so that you do not have to travel several hours a day or move to a college if you want to go to high school. We are asking the government's representative whether the school closure stop is being followed, or whether the Fidesz-KDNP government will also be the government of school closures. Do you now declare that there will be a high school in every district? Will the high school survive in Asód, Vácott, Mezőtúr, Nagyatad, or Szigetvár? We ask for clear and honest answers to these questions. [[Dr. Schmuck is applauding Elizabeth.]]
u2015-06-16-2	Thank you, Congressman. [[Noise.]] Give me a moment and a little more silence. Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Dr. Judit Bertalan will respond.
u2015-06-16-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Before I reply to my fellow Member Ikotity's comment on the weird topic, let me suggest something to him. On the one hand, I would suggest that you read carefully and thoroughly the laws discussed by the Parliament - you participated in the debate - both the amendment of the Vocational Training Act and the amendment of the Public Education Act that follows this, while giving you sufficient guarantees for the questions you are asking, but I would suggest something else, Mr President: I would suggest a new interpretive dictionary for the writing of interpellation and agenda speeches for use, and perhaps we should move away from the MSZP interpretation manual dictionary. [[Interjection in the ranks of the MSZP: How do we get here?]] Saying things like the government's on the policy of school closure. ? All the more so, because the condition that marked the Hungarian school system in 2010 meant neither the creation of a chance nor the quality-based or quality-based public education, so there was a need for a maintenance change and a value-based and quality-based change in public education direction, as a result of which we could now achieve the reform of vocational training to which you referred. [[9.20]] Profile cleaning is not the same as high school closure, so I suggest you introduce the new interpreter manual dictionary for the speech before the agenda. You claim that the eighty high schools listed in an annex to Government Decree No 120 following the amendment of the Public Education Act and the Vocational Training Act are either held as a mixed-profile institution or maintained by the maintenance organisation of the NGM, or mixed in a way that keeps the professional management of the high school section under the responsibility of the KLIK and the NGM maintainers of VET. These high schools, with a maintenance change, are all the more secure at the moment, because the restructuring decision is about the maintenance of the EMMI Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre to the NGM NSZFH. This is a succession maintenance change, which does not affect the legal status of the student or the legal relationship of the persons employed there. Once again, before you raise alarms and allegations which do not comply with the law or reality, please carefully read both the government decree and the text of the law on vocational training, as you know it - I refer to it because you participated in the debate - and the adopted text of the Public Education Act. I would also like to draw your attention to this, because you have referred to districts and high school courses which, for whatever reason, prejudicate termination or closure, which is not directly attributable to the current decision, the decision of the restructuring. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, along the lines of the value-based and quality-based public education system, the content and quality of high school education is indeed necessary, and that all high schools whose regional embeddedness, traditional character at the district seat and the area of admission and education are not at risk. It is a question of whether the high school and vocational training profiles will split up, either now, after the decision of 1 July or, in the case of double maintenance, in the next academic year, these restructuring decisions will be able to take place. I ask you, very nicely, that at the end of the school year, during the school year, or at any other time, you do not frighten the students or the school staff, because they know exactly what you are talking about is not true at the moment. I can confirm that in the districts where the high school is traditionally embedded with regional acceptance, we will provide high school services as a public task at the district seat. It's not what you're saying, and you're deliberately misinterpreted, I trust, in the absence of a little more thorough investigation. The education policy so far isn't about what you're saying. It is about what the government has undertaken, as the teacher-life model continues, the development of content that strengthens the chance-creating character of public education, and it really sets out the way for all children because of their knowledge, diligence and abilities, and we would like to continue this. I would also like to say to you that there is still a figure in high school education: there is a 20 percent excess capacity in high schools, and 70,000 finished their high school studies in the last few days instead of 90,000 children. So it is clear that lifting something does not push another level of training from the center. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-4	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Sándor Burány, MSZP, spoke before the agenda with the title 'Acquisition of taxes for hardworking small people'.
u2015-06-16-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There is a need for a turnaround in economic policy, including a turnaround in tax policy. We need a turnaround, because when Fidesz came to government in 2010, it immediately started to raise taxes. And not only in the form of what is known as the introduction of more than 40 new taxes or new rates, but also in the form of an immediate gross tax on the income of the lowest earners. This is unacceptable in the view of the MSZP; it is unacceptable because it violates social justice. Today, the net minimum wage in Hungary is less than what the official statistics show can make a living, because it is less than the minimum wage. It is quite simply amazing that from the lowest earners whose income is not enough to make ends meet, you collect a 16 percent tax and finance stadium constructions, for example. That's pretty amazing. At the same time, however, the tax on the highest incomes has been substantially reduced, slapping social justice. But this threatens not only social justice, but also unhealthy for the functioning of the economy. One of the most important indicators of the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy is how much the state withdraws from the total wage costs, gross wages and their contributions. In Hungary, this rate is nearly 50 percent, more than 10 percentage points higher than in the Visegrád countries. It is no coincidence that the inflow of working capital has essentially stopped in Hungary in the last year. The demand of the MSZP is therefore not only socially fair, but also improves competitiveness and even supports consumption in terms of the functioning of the economy. He supports it because it is a sad fact that families who earn the least earn almost every penny of their income because they have no choice. If the net wage increases in these families, it will be used almost exclusively for consumption, and unfortunately, there is no way to save for them. Economic growth can be supported from the home country through the expansion of consumption, as the drivers of current economic growth are multinational companies and the construction industry that builds stadiums. In our view, small and medium-sized enterprises should be more involved and their burden should therefore be reduced. The MSZP therefore proposes a new tax system that reduces taxes on low-income earners in the first place. As opposed to the current 15 percent key proposed by the government, the minimum wage should be 5 percent, the average wage earners should tax 10 percent. This means that the net wage of an employee earning a minimum wage would increase by more than HUF 10 000, and a net salary of an average employee would increase by more than HUF 20,000. Because not gross wages, but net wages must be increased in the country, what remains in the people's pockets, what they can spend on; not gross wages, which are basically the taxes of the state. Our proposal is therefore not only socially fair, but also desirable for economic policy. It's a rare combination. Very often the aspects of competitiveness are contrary to social justice, which is not the case now. If Parliament adopts the proposals of the MSZP today in the vote of the tax laws, it will be good for the small people working hard, it will be good for small and medium-sized enterprises, and it will also be good for the economy as a whole through the stimulation of domestic consumption. I therefore ask the House with respect to consider our proposals in substance and to support our vision in today's votes. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-16-6	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond.
u2015-06-16-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The turn you're talking about happened in 2010. There has been a turnaround in taxation in Hungary that is fair and clearly in the interest of the people who are working and earning income. There was a turnaround, since in 2010 there was a three-key tax system of personal income tax at the time of the socialists. Let us not forget that the highest tax rate was 40 percent at the time, which is what they tried to reduce with a little or more success. The Fidesz-KDNP government has set the objective of reducing the tax on income obtained, both for private people and for companies. [[9.30]] It is necessary to reduce the tax burden and to shift it towards traffic and consumption taxes. In this spirit, a single-key tax system was born. The single-key tax system is significantly fairer and more productive than the multi-key tax system. After all, the feature of a multi-key tax system is that the higher you earn, the more withdrawal. The current system encourages you to earn as much income as possible, with one key reducing the tax burden in proportion. The system of socialists at the time, according to which the minimum wage tax was 0 per cent, created a bad system, since most of the entrepreneurs, around 600 thousand people, were kept at minimum wage, saying that there is no tax to be paid here. In essence, it was an expected income around the time, and it certainly encouraged businesses to often untaxedly supplement these people's incomes. This system has basically ceased with the single-key personal income tax system, it has become fair, and so instead of 1.8 million people at the time, since 1.8 million people paid personal income tax in Hungary at the time of the MSZP, 4.1 million people now pay personal income tax. The MSZP also thought differently about the system of family tax relief, since in 2010 only HUF 12 billion was spent on it, and 106 thousand people were affected by the family tax relief system. [[Zoltán Grumpy: You didn't have a tax on minimum wage, man, do you mind?]] Now, in 2015, it was HUF 240 billion, and it affected over 1 million 100,000 people. Moreover, the system of minimum wage at that time was unfair, since the family tax relief was not available to people. [[Zoltán Haughty: Why? He didn't have any taxes, man.]] At that time, two turntables worked side by side, one had a tax, the other had no tax, one had two children, it could not avail itself of the tax benefit. So it was unfair. The current system is much fairer. The Fidesz-KDNP government has set up a system whereby where there are two or more children in the family, gross wages are essentially equal to net wages, as it has enabled them to benefit from the tax relief from contributions. Today, family tax relief is a determining part of the personal income tax system. But Fidesz is also pursuing a different policy in terms of reducing the cost of electricity, as you have raised the price of gas and electricity. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] And Fidesz reduced it. This is also an income advantage for small-time earners. The results of this have been achieved, as, on the one hand, consumption has increased in Hungary over the past few years, retail sales and the purchasing value of people's income has increased by almost 11 percent since 2010. The aim is to further reduce the tax burden on individuals and companies' income. This is a clear goal, and in this we have the same idea as MSZP, since MSZP talks about 5 and 10 percent personal income tax. Fidesz also says that the current 16 percent personal income tax rate and next year 15 percent should be below 10 percent. That is why we are working, and we will achieve this goal of having a single-key personal income tax system in Hungary. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-16-8	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. A new milestone has also been reached with the title of the reconstruction of the Esterházy Castle Ensemble in Fertőd for a speech before the agenda, from Congressman Mátyás Firtl, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-06-16-9	Mr President, Dear Deputy Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We arrived at another important milestone in the reconstruction of the Esterházy Castle in Fertőd, when last week, with the participation of Minister of the Prime Minister János Lázár Prime Minister's Office, the inauguration of the renovated garden parts belonging to the building complex, the restoration of the Rózsakert, the English Garden and the North Park, and the renewal of the Las Forest. I myself, as a Member of Parliament in the region, could not attend the inauguration ceremony because I received a delegation from Bosnia and Herzegovina in Parliament. On the one hand, this is why I think it is important that I stress the importance of continuing reconstruction in the public domain. In connection with the renovation and the transfer of the garden parts belonging to the building complex, I think it is important to be aware that we Hungarians can own one of the world's most valuable landscape and building units in the Esterházy castle complex and its surroundings in Fertőd. There are very few places in Europe where such a grand stand is reflected in Annex XVIII. The culture of the century, its view, its mindset. Restoration, in addition to presenting values, serves to bring this value to the service of the present and future, the development that affects the region. With the establishment of the Eszterháza Cultural, Research and Festival Centre, all the value, cultural heritage that was born from this region to increase our nation, has been given a caretaker who combines value saving, renovation, development with credible professionalism, XXI. according to the needs of the century. It does so by strengthening the attractiveness of our cultural historical values and filling it with newer, modern, XXI. With the functions of the 100th century. Ladies and gentlemen, The result of the reconstruction of the castle since 2009 is now visible and visible to the people living in the region. The Eszterháza Centre brings together settlements in the region, cooperates with the reconstruction and operation partner organizations. It makes the castle ensemble open and accessible to locals and tourists. It is particularly important to have an increasing number of student groups from all over the country, for whom the opportunity to gain personal experience is also guaranteed. As a caretaker of cultural heritage in the region, it is important that the Eszterháza Center, in a complex and competent way, has also undertaken and completed the task and mission of restoring Esterházy to the rank of the Széchenyi heritage in the region. In addition, the activities of the Eszterháza Centre open up new, unused opportunities for development for the settlements of the region, the whole of the Fertő landscape, which facilitates the development of tourism and tourism in unity and in coordination. This serves to strengthen the attractiveness of the settlements, to stimulate businesses, to boost the economy, and to increase the growth of the people living here. For example, the development and exploitation of Lake Fertő for tourism and tourism can also have a new dimension in the future. Dear House, We thank the Government of Hungary, Prime Minister, in particular, for realizing that everything the great historical families of the region, the Esterházys, the Széchenyi, have fulfilled their own environment and their lives have served their country. This service also affects the present, as for the Hungarians one of the most valuable monuments of today's built heritage is the Esterházy Castle and its surroundings, as the sites of our most defining intellectual heritage are the Széchenyi memorial sites in the region. These are our values for which we are responsible, which we need to make public on the ground, both in Europe and in the world. The current milestone in development is a sure sign that the goal of the Eszterháza Centre as one of Europe's most prominent cultural and intellectual centres is a driving force for the development of the region. That is why I believe it is important that the Esterházy Castle and its surroundings continue to develop a series of developments, which, based on the values of the region, serves the interests of the whole country, the nation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-16-10	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State L. Simon László responds to what has been said.
u2015-06-16-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Thank you again for addressing Fertőd, Eszterháza and the development of the region in your speech before the agenda. I think that, with the help of Congressman, the government can deliver significant results in this region, in this region and in Eszterháza. [[9.40]] Allow me, honourable Member, to briefly summarise what we handed over last week, what Minister János Lázár gave to the general public, because we have not achieved yet another great achievement in the development of the castle building complex, but the renovation of the more than 200 hectares of park and forest in the vicinity of the castle. More than 2,000 trees have been planted by the staff of the State Forest Farm and the Eszterháza Centre; 22 hectares of forest have been planted, which, I think, is a huge achievement. More than 1,200 old trees have been saved; they are a park of unparalleled value. Everyone who's been there knows that. More than five kilometers of promenades have been restored by our colleagues, which is almost unprecedented among park development. Besides the park and the forest, the former Prince's rose garden was completely restored. Nearly 9,000 roses have enriched this rose garden. A special collection of varieties has been created here, and this will also play the role of a significant Hungarian gene bank on an international level, as Gergely Márk, our internationally recognized rose breeder, has more than 700 species of rose with its own breeding. This is a very, very serious achievement that we can all be proud of. We also restored the 220 meters long cross-shaped balloon with running roses, in the middle of the pagoda-like pavilion, which was completely destroyed during the period of socialism. In two or three years we will be able to welcome visitors in a fantastic environment. With this, the first stage of the restoration of Esterházy Castle Park was completed, and all these works were carried out by Eszterháza with a grant of HUF 250 million. So part of this is the restoration of the Rózsakert, the English garden, and part of the Northern Park. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have managed to save a band that is a unique ensemble of Central Europe alongside Schönbrunn for the future. But if I have the opportunity to respond to Mr President's speech before the agenda in Parliament, let me summarize what has happened in Eszterháza and what will happen in the years ahead. On the one hand, the renovation of the castle complex started in September 2009. At the first stage we used HUF 1 billion 375 million. In May 2012, we handed over the first phase, with significant renovations in monuments. The second phase started in December 2010 with HUF 1 billion of HUF 923 million. The ceremonial transmission of this second phase was on 16 April 2015. In addition to the reconstructions in the main building, the second phase of the project includes the development of other buildings belonging to the castle complex: the Marionette Theatre, the Orange House were handed over, and some of the Grenade Houses were renewed. Anyone who attends the festivals of the Eszterháza Center knows what a significant cultural achievement this is. It is therefore no coincidence that the former Marionette Theatre of the Esterházy Castle complex in Fertőd received an ICOMOS award in 2014. This is the most prestigious international monument protection award, so the renovation is going in the right direction. At the end of 2012, the third phase started, which is an organic continuation of the first and second phases; the renovation of the so-called Small Castle is taking place now. We're going to do this in December this year, too. By the way, we will spend 1 billion 511 million forints on this rate. Meanwhile, the renovation of the western wing, from which the school moved, started from national sources. Here we are expected to be able to open the Esterházy treasure store in 2016 and its collection of treasures of fantastic value to the public. In addition, smaller investments are being made. The Esterházy family's tomb has been repaired from 76 million forints, the road to the Esterházy family will be renewed now, and the former suites will be rebuilt from 228 million forints. I think this is a huge achievement. I ask the Member to continue to support and assist the Government in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-16-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. At the end of the weekend, more than 1,500 border offenders were again detained for a speech before the agenda, Mr.Antal Rogán, leader of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-06-16-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, at weekends, more than 1,500 illegal immigrants who crossed the border were illegally detained at the southern borders of Hungary. By the end of June, I think that the number of illegal immigrants who cross the Hungarian border illegally this year and try to seek political asylum in Hungary could exceed 60,000. I would just like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament that just three years ago this number did not exceed 3 000; it was just over 40,000 in 2014, and it seems that it will be over 60,000 in 2015 after the first half, which means that by the end of the year, we can expect more than 100,000 illegal immigrants, illegal immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, The problem is therefore real, and we must try to solve it. That is why the government has launched a national consultation, which, I think, gives every Hungarian citizen the opportunity to express their views. Many people participate in the national consultation. More than 600,000 people in person, because they send their opinions either in the form of letters or otherwise, and a few dozen, and basically liberal socialist activists, take part in the national consultation with poster destruction, poster abuse and this type of action. This is a specific way of expressing an opinion, but at least we get to know their views. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the positions of liberals and socialists here in Parliament have long been known to us, because we all know very well and let us be honest: you, my fellow socialists and liberals, are quite simply pro-immigration. You want to solve the problem of population reduction in Hungary and throughout Europe, and you want to solve it with immigrants, and, let us be honest, you also have a clear view that all immigrants are welcome, unless they are Hungarian. So you can come to Kosovo, you can come to Muslim, you can come to Africa, it's all about not being Hungarian. If this were to be felt strong, honourable Members, I would just like to draw your attention to the position you took on this issue before 5 December 2004, and I think that this issue was also made clear here in front of Parliament yesterday by Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén and by Mr Péter Harrach. Well, I fear, my fellow socialist and liberal Members, that the majority of Hungarian families do not share your position on immigration. On the subject of the government's advertising campaign, I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that, although I understand the criticism, I do not understand why you do not honestly say which sentence you do not agree with. Do you not agree that those who come to Hungary must respect our laws? I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that 99 percent of the immigrants arriving here are starting to break the law. Because there is a border crossing, but it is illegally crossing the Hungarian border and the European border. Do you disagree with the need to respect our culture? I think that this is a fundamental European approach from all European nations, a completely natural approach. Or do they disagree that, yes, we cannot create jobs for illegal immigrants arriving here in bulk, because there is unemployment in Hungary, too, to be solved. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the polls, the majority of people do not share the position of liberals and socialists, but rather support the government's proposals. The consultation is taking place, and its partial results confirm that Hungary will have to return to pre-2012 practice against the European Union, strict and otherwise consistent action against illegal immigration. This will require new legislation, a package of legislation and a plan of action to be negotiated by the Parliament in autumn. But we must also act during the consultation process, honourable Members. We must act, because summer is not only a favorite season for tourists, but also for illegal and illegal immigrants. We therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that Parliament must adopt legislation which makes it clear that we do not accept political refugees from a safe third country in Hungary before the end of this session, and we do not automatically consider illegal immigrants from that country to be entitled to political asylum. I ask you, if possible, to support the adoption of this legislation here in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[9.50]]
u2015-06-16-14	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra wishes to respond.
u2015-06-16-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, A week ago, in response to Mr Lajos Kósa's comments before the agenda, I said that 53,000 asylum seekers had arrived in Hungary until that day. The latest data: to date, 56 319 asylum applications have been submitted in Hungary. So the number of asylum seekers increased by more than 3,000 in a week. But how do I say yesterday's data, yesterday, in the last 24 hours, a total of 486 people were caught by border police. I would like to tell you the nationality of these captured border offenders who have illegally entered Hungary: two main people from Togo, 20 from Congo, 6 from Nigeria, 15 from Ghana, 2 from Uganda, 1 from Liberia, 3 from Gambia, 1 from Mali, 1 from Tunisia, 1 from Cameroon, 74 from Syria, 19 from Bangladesh, 8 from Kosovo, 1 from Bhutan, 8 from Myanmar, 2 from Iran, 1 from Côte d'Ivoire, 1 from India, 19 from Pakistan, 2 from Algeria, 220 from Afghanistan, 19 from Iraq. So this is what yesterday's data looks like. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it can be said responsibly that EU rules on irregular migration are inadequate, and this needs to be changed urgently. With these rules, the European Union cannot handle this very difficult and very serious issue. It is enough to refer to the measures taken in the newest neighbouring countries. Yesterday, the Austrian Minister for the Interior announced that the processing of asylum applications in Austria had been frozen to put pressure on other EU countries. The Minister of the Interior said that we must stop the Austrian shelter express from becoming a less attractive destination country. The Italian Prime Minister, Matteo Renzi, said that, if solidarity does not prevail in the European Union, Italy will apply its own solution, a so-called "B" plan. The Bavarian Minister of Finance said that the entire EU area without internal border control should be reviewed. Dear Parliament, These facts clearly indicate that not only Hungary, but other EU countries are also facing this problem. The Hungarian position is clear: this very important issue must be put into national competence; this very important and very difficult issue must be resolved by its own legislation, by its own power and by its own administration. But the EU must also change, and EU rules must also be changed, tightened up. I am pleased that, in this session, Mr President, we have proposed that we not wait until the end of the year for a hundred thousand asylum seekers to arrive in Hungary, because Hungary cannot manage this huge flood of refugees with the current rules. So on behalf of the government, I welcome this initiative and we trust that Parliament will support it, because we need strong action and national agreement on this very important issue, because we see that this is the goal in all the countries around us. And indeed, as the Member said, those who come to Hungary through Serbia cross the border of the Union in Greece, from there to Macedonia and then to Serbia. So these people are not at risk of life, they are not persecuted, either in Greece or in Macedonia or in Serbia because of their religion, religion, race, other aspects. Their aim is simply to find a better livelihood, and we are dealing with living immigrants, ladies and gentlemen, and, as the Member said, the number of these illegal asylum seekers has dramatically increased by 40 times. Dear Parliament, I ask the Parliament to support this initiative, which we are discussing tomorrow, to support the successful implementation of the national consultation, to support the ability to act unitedly, firmly, along the lines of Hungarian national interests, and to represent Hungary's interests on this very important issue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President Novák, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Does the government have a sense of justice and social sensitivity? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It's amazing to see the government's illusions in anti-communist light and color, while, in fact, in the spirit of double standards, this communist authoritarian system is unscrupulously covered. It was amazing to listen to Gergely Gulyás' speech before the agenda last Monday, in which he went all the way to the fact that the so-called Zétényi-Takács justice law of 1991 called the annulment of the Constitutional Court as the cause of the derailment of the regime change. He forgot to add that Fidesz was the only party to vote with one voice, even before the annulment by the Constitutional Court. You wouldn't have let this law pass. I also asked the National Assembly for a report on the debate of the bill on the prosecution of serious crimes committed between 21 December 1944 and 2 May 1990, and we can see that, standing in a roll-call vote, János Áder, Tamás Deutsch, Gábor Fodor, who was then a representative of Fidesz, former vice-president of Fidesz, took proudly no vote, Mr Lajos Kósa, László Kövér - the excommunist László Kövér, of course not so surprising - Viktor Orbán, who was not ashamed in his speech to ask the authors to withdraw the bill. Does the speaker before the Fidesz agenda then have the capacity to hold the Constitutional Court responsible for the annulment of this bill?!The KDNP State Secretary's reply was amazing, and in a very Pharisee way, they speak out for the conviction of Béla Biszku, while doing nothing in this case. In fact, thanks to the current government, you can still enjoy hundreds of thousands of communists' luxury pensions as a leader of the reprisals after 1956. If Fidesz-KDNP really wanted a verdict on the reprisals after 1956, they wouldn't have waited until Biskut XXI. As a party of the century, Jobbik and, in particular, our representative György Szilágyi report what the XX. Century parties have failed. The past 25 years, especially the Fidesz-KDNP governments, are ashamed that the past of state security has still not happened, including the discovery of agent lists, the accountability and banning of party state leaders from public life, and the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions, so that I mention only our three most important anti-communist demands, which, of course, have no government intention. But there are also such symbolic matters, the Soviet monument of Liberty Square, which casts shadow on the National Assembly with its authoritarian symbols here in the neighbouring square. I will address this after the agenda, after our initiative, Mr. Mayor István Tarlós has finally turned to the government to remove it. It was also very painful that this year we were not supported by our parliamentary debateary initiative on the non-communist demands of the change of regime. The payment of Communist luxury pensions is the most outrageous. The withdrawal of a few thousand-forint pension allowances is also a minor measure of a half-solution, while the D.A., György Mátsik, asking for a death sentence for Péter Mansfeld, did not reduce the allowance by one forint, or Béla Biszku or Rezső R raw, for whom it has decreased at all, only to a minimum of a few thousand forints, so they are still receiving hundreds of thousands of luxurious pensions per month, and this year they have also increased their benefits again. In the previous system, it would be necessary to adopt the Polish example proposed by Jobbik already in July 2010 as a leading member of the Hungarian legal system, which has been voted out on numerous occasions by the Fidesz and the Grand Coalition of the MSZP, Béla Biszku. Jobbik's proposal would affect thousands of people, billions of forints a year. We couldn't say these things when we didn't have the opportunity to comment, which is why I used the means of yelling at people called the parliamentary genre by Péter Harrach, because indeed, yelling lies cannot be tolerated; as Bence Rétvári said, for example, that this extra allowance for these people, this privilege of this kind, has ceased, and they will no longer receive such a senior pension. That's what Bence Rétvári lied about. I yelled in one time, and already Mr. Speaker László Kövér threatened to lead me out, of course, against house rules. In the end, they decided to exclude me, by the way, against the rules of the house, in a way that violates the parliamentary law, because for two weeks no representative can be banned, as you, the Mamluks, have voted for. [[10.00]] László Kövér did not put this to the vote, but spoke of a two-week meeting three times. Therefore, let me send the Act on Parliament to the ex-communist László Kövér as a summer reading, through Mr. President-in-Office. So I think that the President of Parliament should know the house rules, and this kind of violation of law would not normally be without consequences. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-18	Thank you, Congressman. [[Foreman Novak will hand over a copy of the Parliamentary Act to the chairman.]] On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State L. Simon László responds to what has been said.
u2015-06-16-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We understand that Mr Gábor Vona, Head of the Group, has rarely allowed Mr President Novák to speak before the agenda recently, because this style and this tone do not fit at all into the cute campaign that is being carried out here in Parliament. Extremely serious issues, extremely serious problems must be spoken fairly and seriously in the Hungarian Parliament. In any case, Congressman Novak's memory is short, they act as if they were the ones who drew attention to the Bisku case, although we clearly remember that in 2010, when the film entitled Sin and impunity was made, made by Tamás Novák and Fruzsina Skrabski, I spoke here for the first time in Parliament, and I spoke about what kind of Calvary the film had and that it was not allowed to be presented in several places or that they wanted to prohibit the production of the film. Then the Committee on Culture and the Press, which I led, called an extraordinary meeting at which we listened to the directors of the film, and in which we clearly believed that freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of creation could not be violated so harshly, and that the Communist dictatorship is a sign - and I quote the best man, of course - and that the documentary that exposes his work and presents it to the general public must be made available to everyone. Long later, Jobbik joined this train [[Adam Mirkóczki: Who reported it?]] And now they're acting as if they've spoken in Béla Biszku's case for the first time, either they've spoken alone, or they're the authentic characters here who would have spoken or acted against the crimes of communism. In recent years, all laws, including the Fundamental Law, including the preamble to the Fundamental Law, including all symbolic laws, including those which have been codified and which clarify our relationship to the dictatorship of the Socialist-Communist period, are due to the two governing parties, Fidesz and KDNP. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the political assembly that has consistently spoken against the crimes of the Communist dictatorship since 1989. This morning we heard the excellent summary by Vice-President Sándor Lezsák, where he referred to the events of 89, and where he specifically highlighted Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's speech at that time, which was a milestone, and from which we can count the foundations and foundations of the latest parliamentary democracy at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that we all agree with all the decent Hungarian democrats that my fellow Member Gergely Gulyás expressed in Parliament last week. It was not a Phariseeism, as Congressman Novák says, that this was the honest political position that must be represented in the Hungarian Parliament by a democrat who does not judge dictatorships with double standards, but who clearly and firmly condemns dictatorships. This is what Fidesz has consistently represented for more than two decades, this is what holds the Fidesz-KDNP alliance together as a leaven. This is what makes clear that a decent Hungarian Democrat condemns dictatorship, does not identify with the actors of dictatorship, and this is what makes it clear that solidarity with the victims of dictatorship is the most important thing for us. And my fellow Member, Gergely Gulyás, said here in Parliament that we do not accept the judgment of the court, that we do not agree with the judgment of the court, and that we ask that the judicial authority, which, by the way, is independent of the legislative and executive authority, review this in some form. Let the procedure continue, and for the Hungarian society, the process that has started in recent years should be resolved in a satisfactory manner for the Hungarian democrats. We do not dispute that, by the way, Mr Szilágyi has filed a complaint, nor do we think that he has done the right thing or even that he has done the right thing to report it. But it doesn't follow that he has any right in any way. To question the fair standing of Fidesz and KDNP in this House, Congressman Novak or anyone else. How would you have the right to talk to Novak Elöd here about how, by the way, everyone in Fidesz would not think the same way, and everyone in KDNP would not agree that we condemn the communist dictatorship with the utmost determination, as we also condemn the former dictatorships. Our basic position is the foundation of decent Hungarian democrats. We will insist on this in the coming years. From this journey, in such a political buffoon, as you did this morning, Congressman Novak, we cannot be dissuaded. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-06-16-21	Dear Parliament, Today's speech after the agenda was submitted by Mr Novak, Mr Jobbik; Mr Bernadett Szél, LMP. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Bernadett Szél, LMP; Tamás Harangozó, MSZP; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; Balázs Simon Róbert, Fidesz. No one came forward to comment on the agenda tomorrow.
u2015-06-16-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our extraordinary meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to taxation and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The submission is T/4741. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to close a detailed debate T/4741/18. and T/4741/19. they have been granted a serial number. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Budget Committee's proposal T/4741/20. by serial number T/4741/21. on order number T/4741/22. received on a serial number. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4741/24. by serial number T/4741/25. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. For these, a total of 15 minutes is available. Before we continue our work, I would like to ask with respect my fellow Members who do not participate in this work. [[It's ringing.]] To continue the conversation in the hallway. With all due respect, fellow Members, take a seat or step out into the corridor. [[Several of them are leaving the meeting room.]] Thank you very much. I give the floor first to Mr László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum time frame of 8 minutes.
u2015-06-16-23	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 11 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/4741 amending certain laws relating to taxation. Bill No. 1. [[10.10]] During the committee meeting, the members discussed the 26-point amendment proposed by the Committee on Budgets and the Economic Committee, some of which were not supported by the wallet, as they were improved in the own amendment of the TAB, i.e. the Legislative Committee. The amendment is backed by a co-ordinating intention to ensure that educational institutions have access, in accordance with the principles of public donations, to the means which serve the activities, interests and objectives of educational institutions, and are in line with any other public-interest donations. The abovementioned amendments and other points in the background were adopted by 24 votes in favour, 5 against and 5 abstentions. Let me stress once again the importance of this bill. One of the most important elements of the tax package is the further expansion of the family tax system, aimed at helping families and supporting children. Thanks to the transformation of the tax system, in 2014 there was more than HUF 230 billion more income than some 900 thousand Hungarian families, and from last year the tax relief was possible from social security contributions, thus making the livelihood of nearly 270 thousand families easier, which meant a net income increase of HUF 16,000 for three parents who earned a minimum wage. The 2016 tax package will continue and extend this work in order to keep as much of the earned income as possible with the Hungarian families. Accordingly, family benefits for families with two children are doubled from 2016 to four years. The combined tax base reduction rate increases year after year with the monthly tax on families increasing from HUF 10 thousand per child to HUF 20,000 per year in 2019, i.e. by HUF 2500 per child per year. The reduction of personal income tax is also a first step towards further tax reductions: the bill reduces the level of personal income tax from 16% to 15%. In this context, the amount deducted from the tax base as a result of the family benefit and the first married person's benefit will be valorised in order not to change the rate of the benefit expressed in tax. This personal income tax reduction is the beginning of a process: if the economy is doing better in the coming times, then the government is aiming for a single-digit personal income tax. Our goal is to keep the income earned as much as possible with the families. In view of this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 24 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-24	Thank you, Congressman Kucsak. The minority opinion would now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe, but the rapporteur Member is not in the Chamber, Mr Tóth Bertalan is not present. We have to keep moving. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr András Tállai, if he wishes to speak now. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] It says no, then at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing; first I give the floor to MEP Péter Cseresnyés, Fidesz.
u2015-06-16-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the work of the government and Hungarian families, the efforts of the last few years have brought their results: while Hungary was in a difficult situation even in 2010 compared to the Greeks with high public debt, low employment and poor competitiveness indicators, we have managed to achieve significant results in a number of important areas: since 2010 our public debt has fallen, we have managed to reduce the government deficit to below 3 percent, and we have nearly 450 thousand people working compared to the 2010 government change. At the same time, we still need to take important steps to help Hungarian families in a number of areas. Accordingly, 2016 - as has been said many times - will be a year of tax reduction, which is also the target of changes in tax laws. Changes to the tax system that started in 2010 will continue next year with the development of a competitive tax environment for the family tax system and for small and medium-sized enterprises remaining the main pillars of the tax system in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important elements of the tax package is the further expansion of the family tax system. The purpose of the family tax system is to strengthen families and support children. Thanks to the transformation of the tax system, in 2014 there was more than HUF 230 billion in income than some 900 thousand Hungarian families. The 2016 tax package has started to continue and expand this work in order to keep as much of the earned income as possible with Hungarian families. Accordingly, family benefits for families with two children will double from 2016 to four years. The combined tax base reduction rate increases year by year by year with the monthly tax on families rising from the current HUF 10 thousand per child to HUF 20,000 per year in 2019, i.e. by HUF 2500 per child per year. The reduction of personal income tax is also a first step towards further tax reductions: the bill reduces the level of personal income tax from 16% to 15%. In this context, the amount deducted from the tax base as a result of the family benefit and the first married person's benefit will be valorised in order not to change explicitly the rate of the benefit in the tax. Our goal is to keep the amount of income earned as much as possible with families. The tax changes listed above are a discount of over 115 thousand forints per year for a household with an average income of two children. Dear House, Among other things, the amendments tabled to the bill clarify the growth tax credit system and the way in which the bank tax is reduced. Growth tax credit will be introduced as a novelty in the area of corporate taxation in order to support businesses that achieve rapid economic success. According to this, undertakings which increase their pre-tax profit at least five times from one year to the next may postpone and postpone the payment of the tax, leaving them with more resources to expand their activities. In addition, the tax start that can be provided by the municipal government in a regulation, the tax exemption extends to the providers of health care services under the basic health care of the municipality, home-patients and dentists, and increases from HUF 10 million to HUF 20 million as a condition for the granting of the tax advantage. By increasing the ceiling, the municipality may make a provision for a tax advantage that can be used by all entrepreneurs' general practitioners. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, taxes on income have shifted the focus of the tax system towards taxes of consumption, type of traffic and special tax, environmental protection and health protection. In summary and in short, the objective of the tax system is to ensure that as many people as possible can work effectively and effectively in Hungary, and that they can devote as much of the income they earn to their children. Therefore, I ask and ask that you support the draft. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.20]]
u2015-06-16-26	Thank you, Congressman Cherry. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik's group.
u2015-06-16-27	Mr President, Dear House, The package before us has not changed fundamentally compared to what has already been discussed in the general debate. As a basis and as a starting point, I continue to recommend to all my fellow Members the statistics examining OECD countries, according to which even after a cosmetic, although commendable 1 percent reduction of personal income tax, Hungary will be the fourth most heavily taxed economy in the countries under investigation, especially if we take into account two-working family models with two children or the average type of family earning on average. These were examined by this model, and it turns out that only Belgians, Germans and Austrians tax more than Hungarians on their wages among the affected OECD countries. You can see, therefore, that talking about the budget for tax cuts is at least a wrong starting point, but if we were to make a substantial move here, Jobbik would not say a word, because we know that the starting position was not easy either. At the same time, we can see, as we have said, that a good one-third of the total amount of central budget revenue to be accounted for is expected from VAT revenues, and indeed, as the expectation of the amount of consumption-type taxes - which guarantees 45% in this comparison - is still going to cost Hungarian taxpayers HUF 215 billion more than a year ago. We understand that, according to your expectations, the number of contributors is broadening, we understand that they assume an increase in wages, which, on a percentage basis, is obviously higher than expected to be paid, but we do not see the basis for this huge increase in wages and increase in employment in economic indicators and expectations. We see that the alleged increase in GDP in the competitive sector is not followed by a systemic increase in jobs and jobs, so there is some kind of error in the system, because while there is a statistically detectable increase in the life of ordinary people, this is less noticeable and in the number of jobs in a small way. I say this without wanting to go into the discussions on the promise of a million new jobs and where they are going with this, because there has recently been a pointless and self-serving number war in this area. We do not necessarily wish to join this, because the numbers are stubborn things that show that you have not been able to advance this system at systemic level. If they are talking about the budget for tax cuts and this is perhaps the most important issue in a tax dispute at all, then we also see, let us say, that the bank tax is falling. But how does the bank tax decrease? As agreed with the EBRD. With the EBRD, the government made a pact, just as it had concluded a pact with the Banking Association, and here there were serious clauses against the Hungarian Government of the parties concerned, where they agreed not to take measures that were supposedly harmful to the banking sector without coordination. For this reason, the government virtually refused to fully rescue the credit victims. If we go further, we see that the European Union record rate is 27 percent VAT, the taxes of the poor, the hotbed of the black economy is still here, poisoning the Hungarian economy at systemic level. We appreciate the government's willingness to take a step forward with regard to pigmeat, but it follows from its own economic expectations, its GDP gains, that there would be much more reserves in this budget, hundreds of billions more reserves than they have spent on reducing VAT. Therefore, it would not be excessive to expect VAT to be reduced to 5 per cent for all important products in relation to the whole range of basic foods and what is very important is child-rearing articles. Depending on how wide we draw this round, the primary cost ratio is between HUF 70 and HUF 220 billion, which is supposed to be missing from a budget in the first year. This is already false data, published by close government experts, as if we were to make a full VAT reduction of 200 billion dollars, it would be more than 30-40 billion of these back into the economy in the first and second fiscal cycles, without counting other multiplier effects. However, we must also say that in itself the total budget expenditure for VAT reductions for any type of basic food is guaranteed to zero within three to four budgetary years. Thus, economic positive effects would not cost money in the long term for a fair VAT reduction that would be introduced in line with market processes and with appropriate control mechanisms - but that would require courage to do so. Before me, there is a list of new taxes or types of tax increases that have been introduced since the establishment of the second Orbán government. In total, the accounting profession now employs more than 50 similar items. We do not want to lead all of them out, as a matter of fact, but I have the dozens in front of me where there is either a suspicion of the need to get out, so we should argue about this, or we are clearly talking about completely unnecessary tax types. Obviously, the various exotic tax types, which are not known anywhere in the world, have only been introduced by Hungary, clearly need to be released. However, it can also be seen that the bank tax, the energy special tax, the telecommunications special tax, the special tax on the trade chains, the food chain monitoring fee is all carried out and collected in a different way than the legislator intended. Is it outrageous that banks, credit institutions, multi-businesses, food-selling networks actually pass taxes on Hungarian consumers, on Hungarian customers without obstacles, and the Government of Hungary is doing something about it? He didn't burn a damn thing. Thus, there are apparent cosmetic benefits for the Hungarian population, leaving a little more in one of its pockets. These four or five networks, on the other hand, are constantly pumping money out of the other pocket. So what we see is that, on a systemic basis, the lives of Hungarian families, the taxes of the poor, the 27 percent VAT, the extra taxes passed on are not going to get any easier for the citizens. As long as we have to draw attention to such phenomena in a tax dispute, unfortunately, we cannot support something sold to such a systemic change, even if its parts are, of course, yes - who would not support the reduction of personal income tax? But you must see that, without any other systemic changes, you can only perform cosmetic interventions through these packages. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-28	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2015-06-16-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government's summary amendment proposal makes legislative changes to the growth tax credit on several points. However, they do not change the basic position: by using the so-called growth tax credit, the fastest-growing companies are able to benefit from benefits, which are mostly exploited by large-scale companies in public procurement, and especially by Fidesz's close interests, such as István Garancsi or Lőrinc Mészáros. With regard to wide-open income differences, the reduction of personal income tax rates from 16 percent to 15 percent does not reduce anything overall, but represents a loss of HUF 120 billion from the budget. In addition, the 120 billion HUF is distributed very unevenly among people, the high-income people are the main beneficiaries of this amount. Since those who really need it will receive only a few hundred forints more a month, this HUF 120 billion could have been used much more efficiently for people. For several years, the LMP has been calling for a reduction in the tax and contribution burden for low incomes in vain. We believe that much more radical changes would be needed in order to make a living from the minimum wage and the average wage. According to LMP, instead of a single-key tax, a progressive tax is required, a tax-free minimum wage. The single-key tax favors the better, leaving around HUF 500 billion for the higher earners when it was introduced, while it was more than HUF 100 billion for the lower-average earners. We can see that the main tax premissions of the 2016 draft budget do not change with the amendments, that the special taxes imposed on the multinationals remain, that the special tax on the tobacco industry is constant, and that the idea of advertising tax came out out of nowhere. [[10.30]] At this year's level, budget revenues from telecommunications tax, financial transaction tax and insurance tax are stuck, i.e. we are not expected to expect a tax reduction for many years. The utility sector cannot hope for a substantial special tax reduction in the coming years, as the planned HUF 54 billion will be reduced by only 2 billion next year. The amendments to certain tax-related laws ignore the long-claimed points of the LMP, such as the abolition of a single-key tax, higher taxation of capital income and the levying of so-called green taxes. In the meantime, society was torn apart because the one-key tax is continuing to run amok with social exclusion. The government punishes ordinary and low-income families, rewards the super-rich and the offshore knights. Andy Vajna and other casino owners receive 10 billion in public money. There are several other similar items with which the government supports its oligarchs, such as the reduction of the mining fee. In addition, from the medium-term budgetary perspective up to 2019 of the 2016 budget bill, it is clear that there is no evidence of significant corporate tax and personal income tax reductions previously included in the revenue figures. So much for the government's promises. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-06-16-30	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr Sándor Burány, President of the Commission, MSZP.
u2015-06-16-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Unfortunately, during the discussion of the summary amendment proposal, we cannot say that the various committees, which discussed and evaluated the amendments tabled in the detailed debate, supported our proposals. However, today's session will have the opportunity to support the proposals of the MSZP in plenary, as our group has decided to vote on our proposals voted down by the governing parties in the committee, taking advantage of the opportunities given by the house rules. Therefore, at this stage of the debate, prior to the vote, I would like to discuss these motions in more detail. On the one hand, the assessment of the situation of the MSZP is based on the dramatic increase in poverty and, in particular, employee poverty in Hungary, partly in agreement with the assessment of the LMP's situation. The most tragic accompanying phenomenon of increasing employee poverty is that even though a person has a job, if his earnings are too low and around the minimum wage, what he gets in his pocket, what he brings home to himself, his family, in order to sustain their lives, is less than the official minimum of living. This phenomenon did not descend from the sky, but as a result of Fidesz's tax policy. While under previous socialist governments the minimum wage was not hit by personal income tax, Fidesz, as it came to government, began to reform the tax laws: it hit the minimum wage with a 16 per cent tax instead of the previous zero percentage rate, thus creating part of the source of the tax on the highest income. Given that this brutal tax increase from zero to 16 per cent could not be compensated by the increase in earnings, the situation has emerged that in recent years the minimum wage, the net, pocketable minimum wage, has decreased in real terms. Today, there is less to buy in the pocket part of the minimum wage than in 2010 at the time of the first change of government. This is the fundamental reason why so dramatic increases in so-called employee poverty in Hungary. This increase, the increase in poverty, was another economic policy consequence, while this change was socially deeply unfair. The other consequence was not social justice, but a consequence of economic growth: domestic consumption was not clearly supported by this economic policy. Even though the government hoped that sooner or later the refrigerator would go wrong and it would have to be replaced, if people had little money, the refrigerator would fail, there would be no way to replace it, except for repairs with some sort of unraveling and tinkering. Official KSH data, which report economic growth, also contain this fact. Over the past few years, consumption has partly decreased over the years, as a consequence of Fidesz's economic policy, and now only minimal growth can be reported, while multinational companies are doing well, primarily exporting companies are doing well, construction has undoubtedly received orders, now unfortunately not for housing, but for stadium construction, so these sectors are pulling the whole economy. Therefore, the main indicators of economic growth are promising, but if we look at how domestic consumption and the performance of small and medium-sized enterprises contribute to this, we can see that they are virtually nothing; they are not because people have no money to spend. For this reason, the MSZP proposal targeted an economic policy and fiscal policy change: compared to the turn in 2010, when the government gradually raised the tax on the lowest incomes from zero to 16 per cent, the MSZP proposals now aim at reducing it. Of course, this cannot be done in one step, so as a first step - but this is only a first step - we have tabled an amendment that would introduce a three-key tax system with keys of 5, 10 and 15 percent. Of course, the 10-percent rate would apply to the average income tax rate, and the 5-percent, lowest wage rate would be charged to the lowest earners instead of the current 16 per cent and 15 per cent proposed by the government. This would leave serious money for people, for families, in the case of a minimum wage earner, this increase, which remains in the pocket, is more than HUF 10,000, and in the case of ordinary earners, double the increase. This is what we think is needed - it is necessary to create social justice, and it is also necessary that, through the expansion of consumption, the economy, the small business sector, also have access to air, demand, income, and therefore this sector can contribute to economic growth at last. There is another element of our proposals that I would also like to talk about. In view of such low net wages, Fidesz is trying to extend the family tax relief even if it tries to make it possible to deduct even from the contributions if there is no possibility from the official tax [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] It is still the case that those who earn the least cannot fully benefit from family tax incentives, as opposed to those with the highest income. This is deeply unfair because it distinguishes between children and children [[István Szilárd Németh: Why lie? The question is, why are you lying?]] distinguish between children and children. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] For you, from the point of view of support, tax relief means less for a child born to a family with a modest income than for a child born to a family, where, for example, income levels are at your level of pay. That's the sad truth. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Therefore, the MSZP's proposal aims to ensure that, in the form of a tax refund, all those who do not have the opportunity to do so now have full use of family tax incentives. Dear House, In view of the fact that our proposal is socially fair and has particularly desirable consequences for economic growth, [[Németh Szilárd István: We saw it between 2002 and 2010!]] we also call on the House and the members of the Government to change their behaviour so far and to vote in favour of our proposals. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-16-32	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik. [[10.40]]
u2015-06-16-33	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to stress that Jobbik is not a party of counter-cooperatives, so when personal income tax, although in a cosmetic way, is reduced, we can support this. At the same time, I must point out that a systemic change in the Hungarian tax system can be achieved if the government deserves to support Jobbik's production support tax system concept, the essence of which is to give priority benefits to sectors which either produce a significant part of the foreign trade balance or improve the external trade balance by producing products suitable for importing. In this way, in agriculture, manufacturing, Hungarian construction, catering, tourism and tourism, there could also be targeted forms of support in the tax system, which could not only reduce the level of foreign dependence in these sectors, but could indeed boost and create real domestic jobs in the competitive sector. To highlight only one area: if you look at the 2010 data, so when you could have intervened for the first time in the Orbán Cabinet in 2010, according to the KSH, only the visiting tourists spent almost HUF 1200 billion in Hungary, the sector is therefore highly capable of integrating foreign income into the Hungarian economy. Therefore, as we can see that we have such real hidden resources, we call on the government to look into the possibility of exploiting them, and I would like to emphasise once again by passing on a tax system that supports production. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have a ten-minute time frame.
u2015-06-16-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the draft budget and the tax bill will be over, and in a few minutes we will hopefully vote on these two legislative proposals. Very interesting experiences can be removed from the debate, especially now from the debate on certain laws relating to taxation. First of all, I have to say that this bill is the shortest bill or tax package in the past 15 years; it expresses something; it expresses the fact that I think that the tax policy of the government has become predictable and that the necessary changes must now not be submitted to Parliament in a very wide range, since it is not a systematic transformation, but in fact only a substantial modification of the individual taxes themselves, or an extension of the benefits. The second interesting thing about this bill is that it essentially does not contain any additional burden or tax increase. The proposal itself is all about reducing taxes, reducing public burdens. Allow me, at the beginning of my speech, to respond in a single sentence to the opposition representatives' speeches and proposals; to the proposals of the amendment later. We welcome the incredible turnaround of the MSZP regarding the transformation of the personal income tax law, because if I understood correctly, MSZPs would now grant family tax relief to people whose taxes do not finance it. Indeed, this has not been the case so far, on the contrary, when they were the majority in Parliament and governed, they did exactly the opposite. In Hungarian: in the area of family taxation, the MSZP also realized that what Fidesz is doing is good, and now it wants to head off as a opposition party, giving more. Thank you very much. Listen to what Fidesz is doing in the area of family tax relief, and it needs to be supported by the MSZP, and believe me, your support may even increase. Another very interesting thing is that the MSZP found out that there is a one-percent personal income tax rate [[Sándor Burány: One percent? One-digit, Mr. Secretary. I need you to focus a little.]] What we're talking about is that we're gonna want to get there. Now it's gonna be 15 percent, and later it's gonna keep dropping. [[Sándor Burány: Concentrate a little.]] And we want to create a one-digit personal income tax rate. But not like you guys, per layer, to this one, to that one, but to everyone at the same rate, below 10 percent. So it is also welcome that the Hungarian Socialist Party actually supports the idea of Fidesz, that it finally reduces personal income tax rates and wants to bring it below 10%. Let's not forget that, at the time of your administration, your personal income tax rate was even 40 percent, and 38 percent, and so on. I would also like to thank the LMP for its speech. I couldn't follow what changes in the tax system LMP really wanted. [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] I learned, however, that there is a Garancsi István and Lőrinc Mészáros in Hungary, but in essence we learn about this from each of their speeches, and that the government always does everything wrong. It would be nice to learn your idea of the tax system, by the way, that you support or do not support the scheme of family tax relief, whether you really want to raise taxes in your personal income tax system. It is therefore necessary to manifest itself on this issue and to give an opinion on it. We also thank Jobbik for his speeches and for the tax system that supports production. In fact, they have reworded what Fidesz is really doing, because by reducing corporate tax, we will be able to provide EU aid for investments and improvements that create jobs and value and increase our country's GDP, create value, generate additional income, essentially that tax system, but you have given it a different name. So, basically, you're supporting the government's current tax system. I don't think the content of the bill should be rewritten. There is a reduction and progress in all areas. Rather, I would just like to highlight the ones that came into the debate, so that they will be included with an amendment proposal compared to the original proposal. Thus, the bill introduces an additional discount in corporate tax on the growth tax credit; although this was included in the original proposal itself, but the tax reduction for the banking tax on lending activity in the event that a financial institution, a credit institution, can increase the business loan stock, reduces the tax payable, the maximum rate being HUF 10 billion. As an amendment proposal, the extension of the public utility tax will be included in the bill, as there will be a utility pipeline that will benefit from tax relief from 2015 as well, and this will be the development of the Internet access network, in some cases, which will be 100 megabit/seconds, which will benefit from this advantage from 2015 onwards. This is also an amendment, with the amendment proposed by Mr Ákos Kara. Finally, the amount of the business tax allowance that may be granted by local authorities, which is basically applicable to general practitioners, may increase from 10 million to 20 million forints compared to the original proposal. [[10.50]] The amendments tabled by opposition representatives could not be supported by the government. There is a simple reason for this because a very large negative balance would have been generated in the budget. Jobbik's amendments would have been 187 billion, MSZP had 1000 billion, and LMP would have reported 1500 billion forints minus. These are, in fact, not tax changes, but tax distributions, and the balance of the budget has not been taken into account by the submitting representatives at all. They put at risk, if the Parliament were to accept this, that our country would probably go back to the excessive deficit procedure, which no one would have any interest in. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I would ask you to support the amendments supported by the Government in the next vote. Thank you all for participating in this debate. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I shall take a break for 11 hours and 15 minutes before the decisions are taken. [[Break: 10.51 11.21President: István Jakabjegyzők: Dezső gullible and Dr. István Tiba]]
u2015-06-16-37	Dear Parliament, We'll start our work. With all due respect, my fellow Members, please take your seats. I would like to ask my fellow Members to check if their cards have been placed in the voting machine. Once the inspection has been carried out, we will begin our work. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws relating to taxation and the final vote. The submission is T/4741. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4741/24. and the summary report by T/4741/25. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 11, 13 and 14, Jobbik Group Nos 6 and 9 and MSZP Group Nos 8, 15 and 16. That's what we're gonna decide first. In Amendment 11, Bernadett Szél and his fellow Members put forward a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 110 against and three abstentions. In Amendment 13 we decide on the motion of Mr Bernadett Szél and his fellow Members. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 15. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 8 votes in favour, 111 against and 44 abstentions. In Amendment 15, Bertalan Tóth and Sándor Burány put forward a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 33 votes in favour, 111 against and 20 abstentions. In Amendment 14, we are voting on the motion by Bernadett Szél and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 111 against and 25 abstentions. I am now voting on Amendment 6 as proposed by György Lukács. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 113 against and 1 abstention. It follows the decision of Amendment No 9, in which Dániel Z. Kárpát and Tamás Sneider put forward a proposal. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 16. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 23 votes in favour, 118 against and 27 abstentions. In Amendment 16, Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members put forward a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. In Amendment 8, László Varga put forward a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/4741/24. The Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote on point 5 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on this and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In point 5 of the summarised amendment proposal, the committee proposed a new 5. The Commission proposes to add a new section to this section. At the request of the Fidesz fraction, we decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 5 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 53 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4741/24. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points of the summary amendment by 115 votes to 35, with 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4741. amended bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 133 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2016. The submission is T/4730. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets T/4730/601. T4730/602. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. I would remind you that, at last week's meeting, we decided, by way of derogation from house rules, that the head of any political group should have a maximum of ten of the House Rules of Decision 48. It may submit a request pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article. The leaders of the opposition groups made use of the possibility of requesting a reservation of the amendments. These will be decided by groups of representatives in ascending order according to the number of the amendments. The amendments requested for reservation can be accepted side by side. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on reservations tabled by the LMP Group. In Amendment 488 we decide on the motion of András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 116 against and 28 abstentions. [[11.30]] In Amendment 489 we are voting on the motion of András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 115 against and two abstentions. I am now voting on Amendment 492, as proposed by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 116 against and 1 abstention. It follows the decision of Amendment 493, in which András Schiffer and his fellow Members made a motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 115 against and four abstentions. In Amendment 504, we will decide on the motion of András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 115 against and four abstentions. In Amendment 506 we are voting on the motion of András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 114 against and 1 abstention. I am now voting on Amendment 507, as proposed by András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. It follows the decision of Amendment 508 in which András Schiffer and his fellow Members made a motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 116 against and 1 abstention. In Amendment 511, we will decide on the motion of András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 114 against and 1 abstention. In Amendment 514, we are voting on the motion of András Schiffer and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 114 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We now decide to maintain the amendments tabled by the MSZP Group. In Amendment 248 we are voting on the motion by Lajos Korózs and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes to 114, with two abstentions. In Amendment 251, we are deciding on the motion of Sándor Burány and Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. I am now voting on Amendment 287, as proposed by István Hiller and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. In Amendment 304, we are voting on the motion by László Szakács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 113 against and 21 abstentions. In Amendment 353 we decide on Sándor Burány's motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. I am now voting on Amendment 394, as proposed by László Varga and Nándor Gúr. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 114 against and 1 abstention. It follows the decision of Amendment 464, in which József Tobias and his fellow Members made a motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. In Amendment 465 we are voting on the motion of József Tobias and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes to 115, with three abstentions. I am now voting on Amendment 466, as proposed by József Tobias and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 115 against and 5 abstentions. In Amendment 467 we decide on the motion of József Tobias and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes to 114, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the Jobbik Group. In Amendment 29 we decide on the motion of György Szilágyi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstention. In Amendment 37 we are voting on the motion by György László Lukács and Lajos Rig. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 116 against and 27 abstentions. I am now voting on Amendment 187, as proposed by Csaba Gyüre and Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 117 against and 1 abstention. It follows the decision of Amendment 237, in which István Szávay's motion is made. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 119 against and 3 abstentions. [[11.40]] In Amendment 324 we are voting on the motion by Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 122 against and 1 abstention. In Amendment 379 we will decide on the motion of Dóra Dúró and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 120 against and 26 abstentions. I am now voting on Amendment 402, as proposed by Tamás Sneider and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 117 against and 27 abstentions. It follows the decision of Amendment 407 in which Tamás Sneider and his fellow Members made a motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstention. In Amendment 419 we decide on the motion of Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and Mr István Apáti. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 119 against and 2 abstentions. In Amendment 438 we decide on the motion of Tamás Sneider and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on Budgets will accept T/4730/601. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 57 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of the National Assembly submitted by the national Parliament, available today on the website T/4730/604. It shall send to the President of the Board of Budgets a single draft budget bill. The Council shall inform the President of the Parliament within three days of the adoption of Article 25 of the Act. § 3 opinion. The final vote is expected to take place next week at our meeting. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decision will be taken today. We've reached the end of the decisions, and I'm now ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber. It's constant noise.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. With all due respect, my fellow Members, please take their seats, and my fellow Members who do not participate in the further work of the Parliament due to the urgent public task, please contribute to getting our work started. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on the transformation of the national accreditation system until closure. Szatmáry Kristóf, Cseresnyés Péter, Fidesz, MEPs' own motion T/5142. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Before I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[It's constant noise.]] My fellow Members, on the right and on the left, please take your seats. We won't start the meeting until then. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In the context of the bill before us on the transformation of the national accreditation system, we are essentially talking about a system which, in its present form, would eliminate the National Accreditation Board, which we have considered to be inefficient in recent years, by handing over its tasks to the State. [[11.50]] Before discussing the motivations behind the proposal, allow me to give you some information on the EU and domestic history of the Hungarian accreditation system. This may also be worth doing because, although it is a very important area for the economy and for domestic business development, many things may be mixed with accreditation in the minds of our students. What is accreditation? Accreditation is, by definition, an official recognition of whether an organisation or a natural person is capable of carrying out certain activities. This can be testing, calibration, sampling, certification, verification and the rest. Accreditation should facilitate the elimination of multiple testing of products and services in order to transform the Hungarian national economy into a modern market economy, to increase the marketability of operators in the national economy, and to remove unjustified technical barriers to trade. This may prevent repeated tests and remove certain technical barriers to trade. In order to ensure mutual acceptance of certificates, it should be possible to demonstrate and recognise the competence of certification bodies. Of course, this accreditation should not be confused with the accreditation of athletes or, perhaps more so, higher education, language education or adult education institutions. Sometime at the end of the 1980s, the European Community decided to make standards more uniform. This has led to the recognition that market competition is on the rise all over the world, and in this market environment, regional cooperation is needed, the use of new methods that are more modern and which lead to important, more reliable products and can increase confidence in certain products. For European countries in this unfavourable environment, the EU has developed a new quality policy as a basis for the system of survival and further development. The European Quality Programme has been developed on the basis of its principles. At that time, the EU asked each Member State to set up an accreditation body which, as a condition for issuing an accreditation certificate, examines the professional competence of each laboratory, certification bodies and checks their functioning in accordance with the EU Directive. In order to establish a uniform set of requirements, the European Committee for Standardisation and the European Committee for Electronics Standardisation, on the basis of the mandate of the EU Technical Committee and the European Free Trade Association, issued the E 4500 series in 1989. These standards shall include a single European set of requirements on the basis of which it is based to ensure the consistency and harmonisation of the methods used by accreditation bodies - testing, calibration, verification, certification. Based on these measures, the EU also established in 1989 a memorandum of understanding for testing laboratories, accreditation international organisations, which was intended to achieve the following main objectives: harmonise accreditation requirements for laboratories, establish a framework for mutual recognition of test results, and cooperate with other organisations that are conducting these investigations in Europe. In parallel, in Hungary, the quality and measurement system was established according to EU needs in the 1990s. Act I of 1994 declared Hungary's accession to European institutions. Article 73 of this Act on the subject of standards and quality certification has stated that Hungary and the European Community are working together to harmonise technical standards, including certification systems, and to promote the conclusion of mutual recognition agreements in this area. XXIX 1995 on accreditation of laboratories and certification and control bodies Laws set out the national accreditation system and the conditions for the accreditation of legal persons and bodies without legal personality to examine, calibration, laboratory, certification and control bodies. The 2005 LXXVII, established on 28 September 1995, which is now to be repealed. According to law, the National Accreditation Board is the exclusive national accreditation body of the Republic of Hungary, which operates as a public body, and the administrative fees payable for the NAT procedure are provided for in a 2006 GKM regulation. At the same time, the accreditation requirements have been continuously changed or expanded. In addition to the series of standards, additional guidelines, technical guidelines and other rules should be taken into account. The accreditation of statutory testing laboratories, calibration laboratories, product certification organisations, quality certification bodies, personnel certification organisations and control bodies is possible in this context. In particular, accreditation provides for transparency, professionalism, independence and the application of uniform rules. Dear House, Allow me to briefly address the objections and problems that, in our opinion, justify the submission of the bill before us, which have been described in the past decades of this process. According to current regulations and practice, he is a member of the NAT, so he may be a member of the general meeting based on the principle of local government, whose application the administrator submits to the committee carrying out the professional evaluation. This means that this procedure essentially narrows down and makes the process of who this accreditation body may actually be. Otherwise, the application of the principle of equal treatment would also require that they do not decide for themselves in a body who may be members of this body if they perform public tasks. The role of the NAT Council as set out in the Act is also to propose to the Minister the level of administrative service fees for accreditation procedures. The Council has otherwise failed to comply with the obligation to propose, the current procedural, administrative and service charges are high in Hungary, according to many applicants and the European average, which are a competitive disadvantage for domestic businesses. Administrative service charges are regulated by a 2006 NGM Regulation, whose careful review would also be ensured by proposing fees in the current organisational structure. We often refer to international examples, and in many respects Hungary also has to monitor the German accreditation procedure, where procedural time is determined on a working watch basis, which could serve as a model for shortening Hungarian procedural times and ensure that fees corresponding to real activity are only paid. Since accreditation is a public authority activity, whose rules must be established essentially to protect the public interest and increase the competitiveness of the applicant, there is a need to keep the procedural process, the length of the procedural deadlines, the level of procedural fees as low as possible, rather to help the economic operators initiating the accreditation procedure and not to hinder it. [[12.00]] This change should be determined by the nature of the official activities of accreditation, which, for the reasons set out above, is justified in order to give greater emphasis to public governance, which may serve to increase efficiency in this case. We have also taken the liberty of proposing this, Mr House, because international examples show that in most states of the European Union there is much more direct and direct public governance than these accreditation organisations. I have already mentioned the German example, where it is basically in the form of a public body, but the Minister of Development appoints the President of the General Assembly, and the majority of the general assembly consists of representatives of municipalities and provinces and, in most cases, delegations of the ministries. So they use a much more direct control, which increases efficiency there in a visible way. For example, in Austria, the President of the College is also interpreted as an organisation formed by the establishment of the Minister for Science and Research. In the Czech Republic, this is also dealt with by a company founded by a minister. In Poland, the members of the Council are appointed by the Prime Minister, in Latvia the Prime Minister is also appointed by the Prime Minister, in Estonia the Minister for Economic Affairs appoints the head of the Accreditation Body, as is the case in Sweden and Italy. However, similarly, there is much stronger public influence in France, the United Kingdom and Denmark. It is therefore clear that the state's involvement in this proposal would not be unprecedented, but rather in a number of European countries, in countries that, given their economic activity and efficiency, could be examples of Hungary, there is a similar system. The structural problems of the current National Accreditation Board's organisation, as I have mentioned, justify that public authority should be taken over by the State in this respect and carried out by a budgetary body. The legal oversight and reporting obligations of the members of the government have clearly not been sufficient in recent years to ensure that NAT does indeed carry out its activities in the interest of the public interest and makes an effective contribution to improving the conditions of the domestic entrepreneurial environment. Dear House, I think that the most important thing for an accreditation organisation is to be independent, but independence must essentially be kept from those market players that are interested in accreditation. If you can say so, the biggest mistake of the Hungarian accreditation system is that the organisation of Hungarian accreditation is essentially independent of the state and the government at the time, but is not independent and there is some hearing, since the accreditation organisations themselves are members of the NAT which carries out their accreditation. I therefore believe that a system should be established where there is no suspicion that a person enjoys an advantage in accreditation because it is somehow linked to the management or membership of the accreditation body. Another important aspect, of course, in the context of the proposal submitted, is that the accreditation body should be regarded as an official body in accordance with EU requirements. I believe that if these objectives are fully achieved, we can provide a significant competitive advantage for the domestic economy and business organisations. On the basis of these considerations, I would like to ask my fellow Members, if they have any proposals, to submit them to the motion tabled and, moreover, to support the restructuring of the national accreditation system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-39	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-16-40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Member of the Council, According to this bill, the National Accreditation Board will be terminated as of 1 January 2016 and its tasks will be taken over by the State. LXXVII of 2005 on the organisation, scope and procedure of the National Accreditation Board shall be repealed. Law. The proposed bill provides for the tasks to be carried out during 2015. No new accreditation application may be submitted after the entry into force of the Act, the National Accreditation Board shall not initiate a new procedure, the ongoing procedures shall be closed until 31 December 2015, in accordance with the current procedures. The property of the body currently operating in the form of a public body will be owned by the State. During the transfer and transfer of assets, the State shall be represented by the Minister for Industry and the transfer receipt shall be recorded by 31 December 2015. The continued operation of national accreditation is of fundamental interest to the operators concerned. According to the bill, the task of the National Accreditation Board as a public body will be taken over by a budgetary body from 1 January 2016. Instead of the current form of organisation, a more efficient and more beneficial organisation can be created. Given that international standards also primarily interpret accreditation as an official activity, it is indeed appropriate, as set out in the bill, for an authority assigned to this activity to carry out the tasks. Within the newly created organisational framework, accreditation can be made more effective for Hungarian entrepreneurs by reducing the duration of accreditation procedures and reducing procedural fees. The competitiveness of Hungarian businesses is based on reducing administrative burdens and costs. The government agrees with the purpose of amending the law. I would like to stress the need to pay particular attention to maintaining the continuity and professionalism of accreditation in order to ensure that the business community concerned actually benefits from the significant changes resulting from the amendment. We respectfully ask that the bill be discussed and adopted by Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-41	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Parliament. The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-42	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As can be seen from the author's exposé, our country has regulated and operated the laboratory and technical accreditation system in line with the expectations of the European Union and European trends since the change of regime, but in recent years there have been signs of concern in the NAT's home. The body operates too bureaucraticly, too slow, and in many cases there is a problem with the quorum at the board's general meeting, because the members do not appear, accreditation has been unduly slow and delayed. That is why the reform of NAT is necessary, and this is also the purpose of this legislative amendment. Dear Parliament, As Mr András Tállai said, according to the proposal, the National Accreditation Board will be terminated on 1 January 2016 and its tasks will be taken over by the State. The Act on the Organisation, Powers and Procedures of the National Accreditation Board shall be repealed. The law amends the Law on Measurement and the Civil Procedure Act in order to reform the procedural order. The proposal provides for action to be taken in the course of 2015. No new accreditation application may be submitted after the entry into force of the Act, NAT shall not initiate a new procedure and ongoing procedures shall be closed until 31 December 2015, in accordance with current procedures. On the basis of the proposal, the State will also own the assets of NAT currently operating as a public body. In the course of the takeover of the property, the State shall be represented by the Minister responsible for that purpose and a report shall be drawn up on the transfer receipt by 31 December 2015. [[12.10]] Dear Parliament, Please allow me to now share with you some important information about the National Accreditation Board, so that we are aware of the nature and size of the organisation and public body we are dealing with. According to the data published on 27 April 2015, NAT has 142 members, which constitute the general assembly of the public body. A total of more than 700 accredited organisations are registered by NAT. We are aware, of course, that the continuity of accreditation must be ensured, and accordingly, pending the establishment of the new organisation, ongoing applications must be evaluated and, of course, the tasks relating to accreditations to be renewed during 2015. As regards NAT's financial situation, its revenues were also derived from sources determined according to the law in 2013. The total turnover in 2013 was 506 million HUF 955 thousand. You can see, then, that we are talking about an organisation that disposals over significant amounts. This is the only reason why we cannot afford the luxury of working slowly and bureaucraticly. Ladies and gentlemen, The structural problems and problems of the current organisation of the National Accreditation Board justify that the public authority should be taken over by the State and carried out by a budgetary body. A member of the Government's right of legal oversight and the obligation to report is not sufficient to ensure that NAT does indeed carry out its activities in the interest of the public interest. The current structural problems result in too much concentration of the decision-making mechanism for NAT. In each accreditation process, the administrator has unduly strong powers, which is a violation of the principle of local government as a result of the nature of the public body. As a public body, NAT is composed of members, but may only be a new member who is provided by NAT through the Accreditation Committee as a decision-making body. The NAT's managing director decides to initiate the procedure, thus opening the decision-making process, as Kristóf Szatmáry said. After the transformation, our plans and hopes are that instead of the current form of organisation, a more efficient and better service for businesses can be created. In view of the fact that international standards also primarily interpret accreditation as an official activity, it is indeed appropriate, as set out in the bill, for an authority assigned to this activity to carry out the tasks. Within the newly created organisational framework, accreditation can be made more effective for Hungarian entrepreneurs by reducing the duration of accreditation procedures and reducing procedural fees. The competitiveness of Hungarian businesses is based on reducing administrative burdens and costs. In any event, the organisation should take into account the fact that NAT is a member of several international organisations, NAT represents Hungary as a full member in European accreditation cooperation. NAT is also a full member of the International Accreditation Forum and naturally participates in their work. It is imperative that the obligations and rights of membership be maintained and taken over during the transitional period set out in the bill. NAT shall report annually on its professional activities and management and prepare, in accordance with the law, a report to the Government, which it shall send to the Minister of National Economy. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, If you agree with the objectives set out by the rapporteur, the Secretary of State or by me, I would ask you to support the proposal before us. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-43	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This bill is like the government of the Fidesz-KDNP: it contains a run of amok, not caring for anything, without any discussion. A legislative initiative will arrive a few days before the end of the ordinary session, and then, thanks to the extraordinary session, it will suddenly be included in the parliamentary series. After a few minutes of debate, another area, a sector, is already destroyed. Well, there's a catch. The National Accreditation Board, originally established by the annual XXIX. It was established by law and it took a very long time for the test results and certificates of organisations accredited by the body to be accepted abroad. I indicate that the test results and certificates of organisations currently accredited by the Panel are recognised by accreditation bodies and other authorities in all countries to which 98 percent of our exports are directed. With the termination of the National Accreditation Board without successor, Hungary's membership in European accreditation cooperation will automatically cease. How long will it take for Hungary to become a member of the European accreditation cooperation? What are the disadvantages if Hungary is not represented in European accreditation cooperation? The cries of the Accreditation Board's Accreditation Board to Prime Minister on 15 June 2015 are well founded. The bill is 2. According to the rules in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, according to which the National Accreditation Board may not accept accreditation applications after the entry into force of the Act and cannot initiate supervisory investigation procedures, it will also result in the immediate withdrawal of the status of signatories of the National Accreditation Board obtained in European and international mutual recognition agreements. This means that accredited statuses maintained by the National Accreditation Board after the entry into force of the Act will not be recognised in Europe and internationally and are not required to be accepted by the authorities of the EU Member States. Of the 628 organisations with currently accredited status, 207, or more than one third, should be subject to an annual supervisory review in August to December 2015, which the National Accreditation Board can no longer do according to the bill. As a result, the annual supervisory examination of these organisations should not take place within the time limit and thus become questionable due to the absence of their status as accredited, its European and international recognition. Based on all this, what will be the fate of 207 accredited organisations? Although the new organisation, which has not even been outlined in the bill, will be set up from 1 January 2016, can take over accreditation in Hungary and carry out the upcoming annual surveillance inspections with some delay, but since this body will not be part of the mutual recognition system, the documents it issues will not be recognised in any other EU Member State. As a consequence, certificates issued by laboratories accredited by the new body, conformity assessment bodies, are not recognised and accepted as evidence from an examiner accredited in another Member State. This chaotic situation, with the entry into force of the law, will immediately paralyze export activity, and it is a fundamental problem for official testing laboratories and certification organisations to find them, since they are only able to issue documents that can be used here. In the case of greenhouse gas emissions certification organisations, there is a problem in all areas where the performance or designation of the activity is linked to an accredited status of Union legislation. This chaotic situation will continue until the new body acquires the status of signatories to the European Mutual Recognition Agreements, which is two years in the lower voice. This also means that by the end of this period, sooner or later, all organisations currently accredited by the National Accreditation Board will lose their qualifications on the basis of which they can issue certificates accepted in the EU and internationally. With the termination of the National Accreditation Board until a new Hungarian accreditation body acquires the status of signatories to the European Mutual Recognition Agreements, Hungary does not provide the national economy participants with the European and internationally accepted accreditation services previously provided by the National Accreditation Board. At that time, pursuant to Article 4 of the EC Regulation, Hungary may use the national accreditation body of another Member State. In this case, however, the actors of the national economy shall bear the procedural fees established by the national accreditation body of the other Member State, the costs of interpretation, translation and other material costs of the procedure. [[12.20]] I note that the independence of the National Accreditation Board from market participants is ensured by the fact that accreditation and accredited market organisations only participate in the public bodies of the National Accreditation Board through the General Assembly of the National Accreditation Board, neither in the regulation of accreditation nor in the accreditation procedures under the current accreditation law. Under the rules of the Accreditation Act, accredited organisations may only hold a valid accredited status as members of the National Accreditation Board, but the membership status is automatic if the organisation has a valid accredited status, can submit its application for membership and become a member of the Board, who shall exercise its right of membership after the annual membership fee has been paid. The membership relationship therefore does not depend on the Accreditation Committee of the National Accreditation Board or any decision of the Executive Director of the National Accreditation Board. There is no debate that this body can be reformed, but this work does not start with the destruction of the body in our opinion. Dear Parliament, Please raise your voice against this unthinkable bill, and withdraw this proposal quietly and quietly before making any more trouble. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-16-45	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the bill before us and the government's past work, we are slowly asking whether the government is all-powerful, and that is why we are asking ourselves that everything that is in government power seems to work well, and that nothing that is in non-governmental power cannot work well; at least that is what the legislative proposals that are increasingly under government jurisdiction suggest. The government behaves like a fairy-tale ball, who constantly devours the powers, attracts them, and is likely to burst at the end; this will happen sooner or later as a result. It is not an organizational transformation, as has been said here in the introduction, but simply the destruction of NAT and the involvement of its entire assets and powers in the powers of the state and government. The question arises as to whether a simple, genuine organizational transformation and legislative amendment cannot be remedied, since a 20-year process has led to the establishment of this organisation and to the operation of this National Accreditation Board, which may, no doubt, has flaws, but it is a fact that the government would now destroy a work that would result in a European accreditation Council member organisation going into the trash can and creating something in place that we do not know anything about yet. And obviously the hundreds of accredited organisations that are accredited by NAT in Hungary at the moment do not know what will happen to their accreditation, so that if, say, next year, after 1 January, their accreditation will expire, how they will renew it, who will apply for renewal. In the opinion of the NAT, which I understand was sent to all parliamentary factions or representatives, it is also included in that seven-page opinion that these companies now turn to the National Accreditation Board - where else would they turn? - but obviously the National Accreditation Board can't answer that either. The reason why he cannot answer is because, in a shameful way, another institution is being dissolved by the institution having to be informed from the Parliament's website that it has been included in the parliamentary system, a bill has been put in place that will result in their dissolution. It is all right, because in recent years, we have been accustomed to you presenting as a motion for a separate Member any bill that you do not want to negotiate with anyone, simply by means of the power machine, to carry through Parliament, as if it were necessary to do wrong, to Parliament, on which, unfortunately, for fundamental reasons, it is their duty to pass through a bill or some of the government's ideas, to consider Parliament a kind of obstacle that must be overcome in order for you to experience unscrupulously the various ambitions of power. There may be a political reckoning, or we don't know what's behind it, but obviously the powers and the revenue, the 500 million forints that have been said here are also from the Fidesz leader, the dispositioning above and much more, but it is certainly not the organisational shortcomings, the smaller or greater organisational shortcomings that result from the imperfection of functioning as a public body. I mean, how would you guys like to judge a doctor who amputates every scary leg without trying to repair the wound? Obviously, they would not consider him fit for his profession, although the government is now doing the same thing: without trying to correct the errors, he immediately amputates the damaged limb, in this case the National Accreditation Board. The question also arises as to why this is so urgent, why this law should be put on the agenda on the first day of the extraordinary summer session, carried out as quickly as possible, and why this came in without any sign. They all confirm that you are not acting with fair intentions and not for the interests of the profession, not of accredited companies in Hungary, but that you are guided by some vague, ulterior political intention when this decision is made. It is also included in the NAT's opinion, in the NAT's opinion of the bill, and we know this, and it is clear that at the moment, the Minister for National Economy exercises legal oversight over NAT on the one hand - whether he exercises it; at least he has the right to exercise it - and the other is that every decision of NAT can be challenged before a court. So it's a public body, a government, if not in the sense of local and municipal authorities, but let's just say that if the government doesn't find the operation of a local government appropriate, then it makes a law to abolish that local government and then plant the government office in its place to run the settlement? Or I don't know what's gonna happen next. In fact, so far, this National Accreditation Board has been operating in a form of a public body, a local government, and has enjoyed some kind of autonomy. The evaluation and decision-making procedures should also be separated here. The evaluation process was influenced by the Executive Director, the Executive Director of NAT, and the decision-making process was carried out by the Accreditation Council, which represented not only accredited organisations in the Accreditation Council, but also government bodies, higher education institutions and the profession. There are a lot of questions about this bill, and about the future, about what will happen if this bill comes into force, what will happen, what will happen to accredited organisations operating in all areas of the country at the moment, whether they operate at official level, i.e. environmental, food safety and judicial agencies with NAT accreditation, there are many measuring, certifying and many other fields in the competition sector, which are also accredited by NAT, and there is no way to know what their future will be and how they will be able to renew their accreditation from next year. Obviously, they can turn to another accreditation body recognised by a European accreditation body, the accreditation body of another country, but for whom? By the time a Hungarian accreditation organisation stands up, a public accreditation organisation operating under government control, and by the time it acquires the necessary European certificates and permissions, the foreign accreditation organisations will have taken over the Hungarian market, and the Hungarian companies and the Hungarian organisations will have their own activities certified by foreign accreditation organisations, and by the time this organisation, the public body, stands up, it will in fact lose its right to exist, since within the European Union it is not possible to discriminate among the accreditation bodies of individual countries? Therefore, obviously it will not work either, if this organisation stands up, then it will say that from now on only the accreditations certified by the Hungarian state accreditation body can be accepted as authentic, and this cannot be done. Just last week, we discussed the bill on emissions trading, emission quotas, which has also just put in place the provision that not only NAT, but all accreditation bodies certified by European accreditation bodies, should be accepted as verifiers in Hungary as well, when the installations carrying out the Hungarian carbon emission trading activity should be certified. So this shows that there will be a huge legal gap here in the next period, and we do not even know what the continuation of this will be, because we know nothing about the body under government control that will stand up from 1 January 2016. So at least a period of one or two years is to come that brings extreme uncertainty. [[12.30]] It is clear that for companies operating in Hungary on the international market, at least for companies producing or producing partly export or providing services abroad, their NAT accreditation, which, let's say, has been renewed or recently renewed this year, and would still be valid in the coming years, will be withdrawn from 1 January 2016 as soon as NAT ceases to exist. The European accreditation body will obviously withdraw the European rating of NAT, so these companies will not be able to operate on European markets. I do not know what solution the government sees for this, how they will accept their accreditation in Europe. Or, as soon as this new state firm is put into work, all organisations in Hungary must get new accreditations, this is the other solution, but because the accreditation of Europe is not likely to be available to this state organisation, so this is not a solution either, I repeat, for organisations and companies on the international market. Or you could even threaten to stop the justice system, because forensic laboratories, institutions that are operating in the judicial system, obviously have to operate with accreditation and which determine or, where appropriate, provide decisive evidence in various criminal matters and then cannot conduct accredited investigations. And I could give you a long list of examples, quite unprecedented and amazing, as the government is now taking the initiative to regulate the National Accreditation Board. We would very much like to know what's real, what's in the background, why it has to be brought here so suddenly, why it has to be brought to you so quickly in the summer session in the shadow of the House of Parliament in this general debate, which is otherwise extremely weak. Until the last moment, we will stand by the fact that if the National Accreditation Board has real flaws - and why not, because everyone has flaws - we will remedy them with a bill that retains their rights as public bodies and local governments, and retains that the representatives of the profession decide who in Hungary can authenticate, who can measure and do whatever kind of activity is required for NAT accreditation. That's all I wanted to say about this bill. Once again, if it had not been seen before, Jobbik would not have supported this bill and asked the authors, the government, to reconsider its position and the authors to withdraw this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-47	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-06-16-48	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The law on the transformation of the national accreditation system is not acceptable to the May Other Politics, because the government side - I start with our first problem - is again, for many times, reaching out to the instrument of the individual MEP's motion when presenting a far-reaching bill. LMP has complained about this many times, and it has been found many times that it is not possible to run the country effectively if they impose poor regulations on people without impact assessments, without social coordination. The unmistakable feature of Fidesz-KDNP's governance is the faction steering. For five years, cases that are sensitive, involve conflicts, have been trying to submit as an independent motion from the majority of government representatives, and have been quickly accepted without any coordination. There are many examples of uncoordinated, uncoordinated legislation that has broken the rule of law in recent years, of serious systemic shortcomings in the preparation of legislation in violation of the law, of social, economic and budgetary impacts, of environmental and health consequences, of the lack of analysis of the impact on administrative burdens. They also do not examine the need for legislation at all; what it means if they do not form a new law. The personal, organisational, material and financial conditions necessary for the application of the legislation are not considered, and the expected effects of the legislation are expected. One striking example is the bill before us, which the NAT, which is currently about to be abolished, has been informed about on the Parliament's website. Zero coordination, zero impact assessment, while regulation fundamentally changes the conditionality in which a whole market operates. Consider some examples that the government should have learned from today. The advertising tax, the Sunday store lock, the tobacco special tax, the capital election system were all created in this way, and I mentioned only the examples of the last few months. Kristóf Szatmáry is now under the name of our fellow Member, the pro-government bill. I do not want to question Mr Szatmáry's abilities at all, but I do not think that he has the Philosopher's Stone and can develop better regulation from his own head of well than the competent ministry. But then the question has to be asked: what does the Government, the 99 Deputy State Secretary, the 54 State Secretary and the 35 Ministerial Commissioners do? It is the responsibility of Fidesz to bring legislation to such a low level in the last five years, and no previous government has taken the liberty of doing so. Let's look at the content of the proposal. Not only did the social debate fail, but they also forgot to ask the relevant National Accreditation Board, so they seemed to have missed some important points. They may be informed of it from me, but the body responsible for measuring, calibration, certification accreditation strongly protests against the planned transformation. All we can say is that these are legitimate, realistic concerns, professional arguments that the government side does not consider in any preliminary analysis or impact assessment. It is only the principle of equality between the parties that dictates that I recall the consequences of the restructuring, according to the NAT. I would like to start by saying that the National Accreditation Board is a partner organisation for European Accreditation Cooperation. If the State takes over the tasks, the European organisation withdraws the right to sign the Hungarian accreditation body in the mutual recognition procedures. In practice, this means that the accreditation of around 600 verifiers carrying out measurements will be lost in Europe. The new planned public accreditation authority is expected to take about two years to regain European recognition, so Hungarian quality control and quality certification are expected to be invalid in other EU Member States for two years; those who need this can go abroad to obtain accreditation. Is that really what you want? But this isn't over! Let me quote the letter from NAT. During this period, the products, services and activities of Hungarian business organisations, such as nearly 200 operators that emit greenhouse gases, should be examined, certified, verified and certified by an organisation accredited to a national accreditation body recognised by other EU Member States through European Accreditation Cooperation. So, in view of the expected impacts, Hungarian certification and quality certification organisations, businesses will lose space, revenue and jobs, and the Hungarian climate protection will be hit again, this time by increasing the administrative burden. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, it is very likely that the hasty individual MEP's motion will result in harmful, poor quality regulation. The Possibly Other Politics rejects not only the proposal in question, but we also say no to the method. It is unacceptable for Fidesz to force a series of poor regulations, drawn up in haste, without consulting and impact studies, for Hungarian people and businesses. I would ask my fellow Member, Mr Satmary, to withdraw the motion. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-16-49	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent Member to speak. Mr Szabolcs Szabó will speak. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-50	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, When we first read this bill, we began to wonder what the purpose might be. The aim, which is also stated in the explanatory statement, is to ensure that accreditation is smoother, faster, not to give, God, cheaper - and I would return to that later - is fully acceptable, that is all right. [[12.40]] The other, which is an underlying goal: I think - my better fellow Member has also referred to this - that there is also government centralisation in this context. And we obviously disagree with that. Then the next question is that it is good, then in the first goal we agree that accreditation should be smoother, faster, cheaper, by what means, by what means it can be achieved. I must say that this bill is not a good method or a good instrument, it is simply a bad solution for this purpose. Several of the previous speakers mentioned here that NAT itself, as a public body, has been operating for quite a long time, has been in compliance with international standards, has revealed shortcomings in this regard in the 2000s, so there was an amendment to the law in 2008, and then, in practice, NAT has been given the right - because it complies with the due diligence of the European Parliament and Council regulation that regulates this activity - to issue certificates that are accepted everywhere and therefore do not need to be accredited separately in all countries. In addition, a previous speaker also mentioned greenhouse gases, right, in 2014, so last year a decision was taken to grant NAT accreditation in relation to greenhouse gas emissions. So it is in no way true that what can be read from this bill and from the explanatory statement that it does not comply with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on which they refer. The main reference here is that the Accreditation Board - or Accreditation Board - is not independent, and I'm sorry to say your name exactly. I have read this regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, which you refer to, does not provide for a rule that would mean that an accreditation body cannot be a member of the market operator, because it is not the public body that does the accreditation, as appropriate. From now on, such a problem simply does not occur. And I can't do justice to you saying that the principle of self-government doesn't apply, and it's the executive who makes one-sided decisions or influences decisions about who gets involved with the board, and they say it's automatic. This is probably what the negotiated method was invented when we should talk, because what many fellow Members mentioned here, when we started looking into it and talking to experts about what might be behind this amendment, we also received a letter from the National Accreditation Board during the professional work, in which they say they did not agree with them. Well, of course, that's what you can say, because they want to eliminate them, so they don't think it's important to negotiate with them, but they've done accreditation so far, and they didn't, let's say, start yesterday, but they can say that they've been doing it for decades. I assume you're heavily equipped with professional experience, too. So it probably wasn't the perfect solution to bring this law to the House. Then what's going to happen? NAT itself will cease to exist, its assets will be transferred to the state, and from then on, accreditation will be carried out by some body not otherwise specified, unnamed, undefined. Perhaps it would have been good to talk about this even in the oral presentation about what they were thinking. The problem is, however, that when a new body is created, it must first, in an ugly way, carry out accreditation, recognition, and then issue such certificates. So there will be one of these two or three years, we do not know exactly how long it will take, but about two or three years, when Hungarian bodies cannot issue accreditation. Obviously, when the reviews have to be carried out, either the Hungarian companies will not do this, or they will have to go abroad, which will require additional resources, because, as a matter of fact, if you have to go abroad and have everything translated into German, French or English, it will cost money. Here you can go to a translation office where you officially translate how much you translate a page. And we're not talking about one-sided materials here, obviously. This puts Hungarian companies at a competitive disadvantage, because their accreditation can be done more expensively than, let's say, in the current situation. And it's in the cards that maybe some of them won't have the money to get this done, so they're giving it up. Because there may also be cases where we are not talking about accreditation procedures for highly capitalised companies. For example, in the case of universities, it may be important to have a laboratory, for example, to be accredited and to carry out measurements. Obviously, they won't be able to manage that. Now, if I think better, there aren't a lot of accredited labs, like natural sciences, like there's one in Szeged. I wonder how they're gonna manage that when their certificates expire. Then such an interesting justification of this amendment is a question of price, because it is not counted in hours and that it is expensive - that is roughly the point of the author. NAT says that they are required not to count in hours, and if they compare European prices, they are below European average prices. It's really hard what to do with that. Again, I can only say that, by the way, since this is determined by a GKM regulation, if the price is the problem, this could have been settled perhaps in the past, but even now, it is not such a very, very complicated problem. So, given these problems and, above all, that the accreditation process itself is going to stop in Hungary for an uncertain period of time, because we do not know that, so we also propose that, if possible, this should be withdrawn. We're not moving forward with that, that's for sure. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents behind Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think the lead speakers have touched on almost all the important issues, so I will not repeat them. Actually, my problem, my problem with this bill, is that it seems to me that a system that works is being destroyed. Congressman Szatmáry, when you say that you thought, in his words, that it is not working effectively, so if the author uses the category of the said category, then - I think - there is a problem. Disarmament of powers, destruction, many other things are happening, and in the meantime, we do not see tomorrow, as our lead speaker Árpád Velez said. That this is happening without social consultation? That's -- how can I put it? - it's not an extraordinary case. It's just how they do things. But the fact that, by eliminating the National Accreditation Board, we are practically describing ourselves from this European system, and by the time we can rewrite it back, the approximately two-year period that will be ahead of us will be virtually against the interests of Hungary, because it will obviously be accreditation, but not on the part of the National Accreditation Board or not of those who were certified to be available. Actually, my question is what happens to that 207 - if I remember correctly - accredited organisations. What will their fate be? How and how can they look to the future in the coming period? And was it really considered that, if nothing else, in terms of the economic sphere, let us say, in terms of exports, what untraceable damage is being caused by what they are doing now? The only reason I can't say otherwise, and I don't want to, is because they're stubbornly trying to beat something up without seeing how they're building the system without making mistakes. Thank you very much. [[12.50]]
u2015-06-16-53	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will also give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group, in a two-minute timeframe.
u2015-06-16-54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, let's put aside a little bit of the professional flaws or any shortcomings of the National Accreditation Board, but we're looking at the principle itself, the procedure. In such a way, without being asked or notified, they pass this law through such an accelerated procedure, in which an institution with a 20-year history is shattered, with the level of contempt or disdain of the National Accreditation Board, an organization with an otherwise high authority and, once again, a 20-year history that fits perfectly into the line, the government arrogance that has characterised the Fidesz government since its beginning. It says whether you're a decent tax-paying citizen, whether you're a company or a public body, whoever you are, if we get our hands on you, there's only one thing you can do to keep quiet. We'll tell you what's good for you, and we'll make the laws that affect your life without asking you in any way. And from here on out, all kinds of national consultations are just billions of peasant blinding, sorry for the expression, but I can't say a better word for it. I mean, it's just a billionaire government propaganda. It doesn't have any actual function. What we see in everyday life is that what the government says happens anyway. Not only do ordinary citizens, tax-paying citizens, economic companies and the various actors of Hungarian society not get asked, but they do not ask the opposition in Parliament and do not listen to its opinion. Or even if you listen to his opinion, in one ear, out the other. It just can't go on. This undermines your credibility more and more. You will be able to see the results of this, no later than 2018, or even sooner. It is completely unacceptable for us, once again, whatever the professional reason for this bill is, this form and this mentality, as you govern. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-55	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. No one came forward in writing. Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for the floor in a normal time frame. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-16-56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dark cases. I call those bill proposals which come before this House to be dark cases, which clearly do not appear in the explanatory memorandum, which is the real reason for an amendment. I feel that this bill, which you have just presented to this House, also has a justification where both the nationalist and the government and opposition representatives know precisely that the reasons given in the justification are not the real reason. The difference between us and, let's say, the national and the pro-government representatives or the government is that, hopefully, you know the real reasons that you want to change, and we opposition representatives cannot and do not know these reasons. After all, the justification of the proposal does not raise any technical arguments in addition to the creation of a new operational structure, nor does it seek to justify the abolition of the current structure only on general grounds, which are partly personal. The economic stability of the adequacy, institutions and procedures of the national accreditation system is of paramount importance. Therefore, I believe that a radical change in the system is justified only on the basis of serious malfunctions or strong professional arguments. But we do not see such a thing in the reasoning, which is why we are confused about this change. The motion proposed by its independent representatives proposes the abolition of the National Accreditation Board, which was established two decades ago and which was installed ten years ago in line with EU directives and expectations. As a basic reason for termination, it was indicated that the structure of the current organisation is based on an overly concentrated decision-making mechanism, which has led to operational problems in practice. Another particular reason for the proposal is the excessive powers of the administrator. The solution to the problem is seen in the proposal that the state itself will carry out the tasks currently in the form of a public body through a body in the future. But according to the proposal, this organisation does not yet exist, has not yet been established, nor does it specify the form in which it is intended to be created and how it will function. In my view, the legal powers of the participants in the rules of procedure of the panel are not structural problems, but rather procedural problems, and if we are talking about procedural problems, it is unjustified to remove the whole structure. If the problem is that the manager has too strong a driver's license, why not re-regulate them? Why are we replacing the current organization with a completely new one? The proposal does not contain any guarantees, nor does it even provide guidance as to what permissions the management of the budgetary body, which will carry out the tasks in the future, will carry out its work according to the procedures. We therefore intend to remove an institution that is very important for the economy and to replace it with something that is not yet known. The provision of the submission that the State is not obliged to take over the current employment staff at the time of receipt after 1 January 2016 is important. The results of an organisation's work are determined by the preparedness, competence and efficiency of its workers. So if we destroy the existing institution, if we release its personnel to the wind, then we can be sure that the provision of tasks will stop for a considerable period of time. In my view, the proposal presented is unprepared, unthinkable and unacceptable in its current form. The reasoning also suggests that administrative service charges are too high. The fees and rates for procedural acts shall be determined by a ministerial decree. With regard to fees, the NAT Board has an obligation to propose which it has not complied with. If that is the case, then what has the Minister of Supervisors done, who otherwise has an annual audit obligation to restore the legality of operations? If irregularities have indeed been identified in the annual procedures, has NAT implemented the necessary proposals for action to restore legitimate operation? If this was the case and NAT did not terminate its infringement practice, then did the Minister of Supervision turn to the court, which is also the right and duty of the NAT Act 25/B. In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is a repeat example of Fidesz' incompetent, arrogant management practice. By means of law, he intends to settle a matter that should be resolved at ministerial level by decree. It brings to Parliament a problem that should be dealt with in the day-to-day exercise of implementation. Once again, we see that an existing institution, regardless of how it works, absorbs the answer to the fact that there may have been problems in the day-to-day operational operation. This is the case where the problems, their existence or their non-existence or their existence are not mentioned in the reasoning of the proposal. On the basis of the reasons given, it is certain that the person of the current NAT executive is in such a way as to harm the interests of the governing parties that they are willing to destroy even the entire institution in order to remove this person. And the destruction is to be sanctioned by this House in such a way that the future of the provision of tasks is completely uncertain. A decent congressman can't assist. A responsible country cannot support a proposal that leads to uncertainty and lack of transparency in a key area such as the system of national accreditation. And it would be nice to finally find out what the reason is, what the reason is, what happened. So what's the big crime that you're trying to destroy this organization for? What fidesz friend, kisser, vassal didn't like the way NAT works? Who couldn't possibly be a member of the National Accreditation Board? Who could have been the one whose interests were violated by the operation of this organization? After all, if we do this, we are once again faced with another example of a fidesz centralization. And as my fellow Member has said, it is always suggested by you and you wish to send a message with such laws so that anyone who contradicts something will and will simply be trampled. After all, the question arises: if there have been problems for five years, because let us not forget that you have not been in government for six months or a year, there was also a previous term, for five years you have not had problems with the current structure, the current situation? [[13.00]] Why wasn't he dealt with in 2010 in the previous cycle? Or have you not noticed that the president has too much power and authority? Although in order to be aware of those who listen to it or do not really know how NAT is built, what is its operational structure at all, it is clear, as has been said here, that if a member wants to enter, what procedures are in place. If a potential member submits his application, the body shall, in a 30-day procedure, hire the new member if the legal conditions are met. So if you meet the legal requirements, you're obliged to wear it. The second is that NAT has an accreditation board with the president, ministerial delegates and 9 natural persons elected to deal with internal operations. There is an accreditation committee of which the chairman, 2 alternates and 22 natural persons are members, and they are entrusted by the Accreditation Council until withdrawal - professional work is done here. There's an appeal committee, a financial audit committee, and there's still a list. The President shall be elected by the General Assembly for a period of five years, so that the General Assembly shall decide democratically, where appropriate, who shall be the Chairman of the Board of Appeal or the Chairman of the Financial Committee. So we feel that there must be some kind of violation of interest here, which is why you are virtually eliminating this organization, because in practice, the majority would be available through ministerial delegates and higher education institutions at the general assembly. If the majority is available, then the current government, of course not with arrogance and not with arrogance, but with the opportunity to direct things in such a way that it can influence the operation of such an organization. I would like to say a few more words about the various statements that were made here during the speeches. Kristóf Szatmáry said that it is also important to terminate this organization and create another organization so that it is not an advantage when it comes to the leader or the council. Then will it be an advantage if it's connected to Fidesz? It means the same thing. So you want to tie him to the Fidesz? Is that an advantage? It should not be an advantage to anyone, I agree with that, but we would expect that if you make such a statement to the rapporteur, you should also give specific examples. Tell him X.Y. had this and that -- he had problems because, let's say, he had a bad relationship with the president or the council. So let us give concrete examples of the problems that are bothering you. There have been statements from the Secretary of State that accreditation should be made effective and cheaper. I have already said about making it cheaper that it could simply be resolved, but in order to make it more efficient and to eliminate bureaucratic systems and such, what impact studies are available, Mr Secretary of State, on the basis of which such statements can be made? So what is the specific example that you can use to tell us that this system, as it is, is not working right now? And what impact studies are available on how the system will work if this organization is terminated now? How does this system get better? How will this system be different? What will be better for Hungary, for Hungarian businesses and thus for Hungarian people the system that you want to create? I mean, they haven't said a word about it in the last few days. What do they even want to do differently? What structural changes do you want? And the rest, I'd say. But because I think we will not be able to get answers to our questions in this general debate, my colleague Lajos Kepli and I will also turn to the Ministry of National Economy with a written question, and I hope that they will give us answers to our questions that might help us to understand his background. But I am going to ask these questions here, too, in case the Secretary of State can answer that question without having to wait 15 days for you to answer the written question, in case we learn more about the background of this matter. So we would like to ask the Minister, or the Secretary of State, whether he has acted under the jurisdiction of judicial supervision over the last three years. So, has the supervisory body been involved in any of the cases? What measures has the portfolio taken over the last three years in the NAT case? In the last three years, have any complaints been received, and if so, how many of the wallets you have led, i.e. belonging to the Secretary of State, regarding the operation of NAT? Does your wallet have an established position, or even the Secretary of State, on which body or organisation will carry out accreditation tasks after 1 January 2016? What is the position of the wallet on the bill in question, for what technical reasons is it necessary to abolish the current system? If possible, don't get exhausted in the fact that we want to make the accreditation more efficient, as this is a horse-zung in my opinion. I would also like to ask you how long it will take you, in your opinion, to return to the impact assessments, to establish a new authority and to recognise it in the EU, since this is not a negligible issue at all. I would like to ask you to withdraw this bill as long as you do not give appropriate, straightforward and meaningful answers to the questions and points that have been raised here by the opposition representatives, and until it is clear why you wish to change this system, please be so kind as to withdraw this bill, be so kind to the government, do not support such legislative proposals, and I ask you to put an end to the negotiation of this bill, and indeed to bring to this House provisions and laws that are not in the interests of Fidesz, but of Hungary and of the people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-57	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. Congressman Lajos Kepli, in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-58	What I would like to ask you, though it appears from the previous statements of the President, was that we are only getting an answer in the closing words, even at the last moment I pressed a two-minute push to see if we could get answers from either the Secretary of State or the rapporteur, Mr Satmary, so that even we can respond to it in the spirit of parliamentary genre and fairness. Because if you don't think of us as equal partners, then whatever you can say here in the closing word is a pretty bad certificate of government conduct and of you. We would like to have a real debate. If the actors involved or the NAT itself have not been contacted once, let at least a substantive debate take place here in Parliament, and then, obviously, you will take it through, you will be able to vote with this House, but it would be good to have something to respond to, because it is always happening here in Parliament that we say our opinion, you will not respond to it, and then in the closing we will often get answers that are not free of personalities, which are where our party is, where our individual person is, but in no case responds to the questions we have asked about the bill. I hope that this will not be the case now, and I hope that you will be actually involved in the debate and will state your position, not for our sake, but either for the sake of the National Accreditation Board or for the sake of hundreds of organisations accredited by NAT, who are curious and waiting for answers about what has happened, why this amendment of the law has come before Parliament, why we need to remove NAT with such a sudden idea; and for all the other questions that my fellow Members have already asked from the opposition side, we are very much looking forward to answers. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-59	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just to make a strong request: this is not a government referral. It's a self-representation proposal. My fellow Member, honor the other fellow Members, who are here today among the walls of Parliament, inter alia, to discuss the bill you have listed, so that if we already have questions, you can answer these questions as a Member. [[13.10]] I have asked three simple questions, and I would like to ask you once again in a confirmatory manner, and I would like to ask the same question, not as the representatives of the government, that they will say and then go home, but that, if we do not see the answers to our questions, if we do not see them well, then help us to see them well. Or allow us the opportunity to discuss it, and we will help you to understand why it is worth overthinking what you have presented. Now, one word, as a hundred, I would like to ask you, my fellow Member, what will happen to that 207 accredited organisations. That's one very simple question. The other is whether you have taken into account when preparing the proposal, what this brings to the economy, what kind of difficulties, limitations on exports, what kind of risks this might pose. Really, does this story really serve Hungarian interests? For about two years, after 31 December, we will find it difficult to cope with the European accreditation system after the accreditation has ceased. Of course, accredited organisations of other nationalities can be reached through their activities, but this serves Hungarian interests. So, if possible, my fellow Member, honor us by answering these questions. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-61	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity for a two-minute speech.
u2015-06-16-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Just like the other two opposition parties, I would like to ask the representative of the government and the rapporteur to take part in the debate; on a parliamentary debate day, we are sorry, we are debating. Thank you.
u2015-06-16-63	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, who asked for the floor in a two-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-64	Thank you very much. Very briefly, so it doesn't hit the front of the house. Perhaps I would like to quote most of the questions asked, just today the e-mail from the head of one of the 207 organisations that I received. The reorganization of the NAT, perhaps its melting, is welcomed with all our heart, because it has resulted in an untenable condition in its current management. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think that, of course, you can ask questions, and here you can accuse the government of coming forward with suggestions drawn from the drawer. Dear fellow Member, I must say, however, that this was preceded by a professional work within the faction before it was submitted. Several versions have been thought about how to make this system better, but I think that basically with the aims of the current system that are not working well, the current system is slow, expensive compared to the European Union, a system that was set up nearly 20 years ago, perhaps meeting the challenges of that time, does not correspond to today. That is why I said in my speech that much of the more effective systems to the west of us have much stronger state governance, that the Prime Minister, ministers or budgetary bodies directly exercise this right, and not to mention, fellow Members, to clarify that we are talking about a state task here in principle. I think that in a modern world, the primary responsibility of the state is to provide the certificates that are necessary in everyday life. This is about the fact that there is a system that did not work well before, there were several alternatives to how this could otherwise be modified. Unfortunately, the structure only allowed us to bring about a drastic change and that is why this proposal has been tabled. By the way, I may be able to answer some of the details later in my speech or closing. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-65	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, In a normal time frame, we now have two speeches. First, Congressman Nándor Gúr. You have the floor.
u2015-06-16-66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am honoured by the fact that my fellow Member was pushing a two-minute period, although I was confident that he would make a longer explanation. Simply because I think that the introductory sentence really gave you enough uncertainty when you put your sentence in a way that you thought you were. You remember that, don't you, fellow Member? If you don't, you'll be able to look back from the record. So when you're not making a firm statement about what you're proposing, you're saying that you thought it wasn't working effectively. You think so? Are we making a law based on what we thought we were doing in this House? I think that a multitude of impact assessments, social debate, many other things should prevent legislation from taking place, and not supposed to be revealed. That's part of the story. Another part of the story is that I have just quoted my fellow Member from the opinion of an organisation from 207 organisations. I still miss the other 206. You have time, two-minute, 15-minute, many types of comments and options. I just want to make it clear that, of course, we can set an example of the 207s, but let's say I would like to hear the opinion of the 207s. I know I won't be able to get to know him because he won't be able to show us that. So my basic problem is this. My fundamental problem is that we need to discuss a bill with a motion for individual representatives, within which we cannot even understand the views of the organisations concerned, let alone engage in wider social consultations in this matter. I could say this story for 15 minutes because I asked for a normal word, but I do not want to bore anyone with it, I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that it would be good to put a bill between the walls of this House and take into account, say, everything that has developed in the legislative agenda on the basis of the principle of customary law for many decades. So that we will put a bill between the walls of the House, if the social debates that can establish the goodness of the bill take place. The only point that we have here at the end is that by destroying something, by eliminating something, by removing powers, it doesn't actually create a situation that would bring everything that has worked to a better level, to a higher level. So I find the kind of approach that we are now negotiating this bill to be fundamentally wrong. And the issue of independence was also raised by my fellow Member. The kind of independence that is born under harsh government influence, I don't know what kind of independence it can be called. Can I break it down? Should I open it? I can break the story down if you want, my fellow Member, but I think that independence is not born from governments. Independence is born precisely from the formation of common thinking on a professional basis and not from the determination of the government to independence. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-67	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman György Szilágyi applied for a two-minute speech, Jobbik. You have the floor.
u2015-06-16-68	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask Kristóf Szatmáry to give us the answers that he would like to address in detail, not in the closing word, but in detail, because then we would be able to argue. The cowardly sneaking away from arguing is not the right thing to do. However, I would also like to say these words to Mr Secretary of State, who is currently busy and talking, because he represents the Government at the moment, Mr Secretary of State. The representation of the government and the government should not only take Fidesz voters into account, but should take into account all the citizens of Hungary, and you should, whether you like it or not, the opposition is sitting here in Parliament thanks to Hungarian citizens. What does it mean that you refuse to even exchange views with the opposition? I would add that you are the majority of Hungary, because you are not ruling at the moment because of the great majority of Hungary, most of Hungary is being ignored through us. The people who didn't vote for you, but for opposition parties, you ignore them. From now on, Mr. Secretary, I find this outrageous, as you, on behalf of the government, once again testify to an arrogant behavior that upsets me, but believe me, it also upsets the people who face this through us and through our behavior. And I hope - and I do not hope that I am 100% sure - that in 2018 such a form of behaviour will have its results, and you will see this in votes. So I'd like to ask you to honor us with that. - [[To András Tállai, who was about to leave the room:]] Although Mr Secretary of State will no longer be, because he has left quickly - so please respect us by answering our questions, not in the closing moment, when we can no longer answer anything. Thank you very much for your attention, and I wish Mr Secretary of State a pleasant long weekend. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.20]]
u2015-06-16-69	Before I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, I would like to inform the Member that the representation of the wallet is ensured at the level of State Secretary. I think it's the wallet's decision which Secretary of State represents the wallet. You have the floor, Congressman Árpád Velez.
u2015-06-16-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After the speech by my fellow Member, Mr Szatmáry, it became clear that you were confusing social consultation with the dog in the Fidesz fraction and with the working group. It's not the same, I'd like to say, at least not from the outside. I do not see the guarantee that this system will work. I would also be delighted if you could give me the answers to the questions that have been asked, that for the next two years, until you have all the approvals, then how will this system work? I would be honored with your reply, my colleague Satmary. Thank you.
u2015-06-16-71	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Kepli asked for the floor in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I asked for the floor in a normal time frame because my colleague György Szilágyi just used up the possibility of a two-minute speech. I promise I won't take all 15 minutes. I am very pleased and thank you very much to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry for joining the debate for at least two minutes. I am also pleased that you have delivered an opinion, one of 207 accredited organisations, which said that you agree with the changes. I'm sure you could find someone who doesn't agree with the changes, but in 207 you can always find anything, whether it's a pro or a versus opinion. As has already been said here, the majority's position and opinion would be in question. But I'm saying that's not even the main question. I would also venture that even the majority of accredited organisations are dissatisfied with the functioning of the National Accreditation Board as it stands. The question is whether or not it is necessary to destroy it. And if, in a year or two, they ask these organisations again, when an accreditation body is already operating under the authority of the government, will they be satisfied? Now, without knowing what's coming, they can't give an opinion on which one they'd choose. It's very clear. The fact that something is going wrong now, something needs to be improved, really, does not mean that it has to be smashed. Although Mr Szatmáry said that this was discussed at a parliamentary level, there were several options. I would like to hear what other options have been and why they have been rejected, why they have come to the view that, in their present form, the National Accreditation Board must be terminated and a new organisation should be set up under government authority. We're really curious about the reason, and if you could give me a reason, I don't even think there's a reason why I would accept it. Unfortunately, the problem is the way the proposal was presented to Parliament and that our questions remained unanswered during the debate. They all support that either there is no such reason, or we cannot, for some reason, know the real reason, and so, of course, cannot convince the opposition factions that they should support this bill, and we will not support it as it stands. And I anticipate that it will be very difficult for you to change that position as the author. And once again, instead of reading letters from accreditation organisations, I would like to hear something about the real background and the real reasons. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-73	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Bárándy has made a statement in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, When I read the reasons for this bill, it was rather strange to see that they wanted to abolish this body because it was too central; at least it was part of the reasons. Let me ask either the representative of the government or the author whether it is more central than whether there is a government or not. I don't think so. Then something really centralized when it's placed under the government. And the exact opposite of today's situation. The problem with this proposal, in my view - and I approach it from a slightly different perspective from that of my fellow Members so far - is that it is also one of your centralisation efforts, one part of which I cannot agree on in principle and in principle. The Brigade of this process has already been played between 2010 and 2013, but what they are reaching at the structural level is all aimed at and promoting centralisation. Instead of carrying out any task by independent institutions, it will be placed under the government and done by an organisation under government control. This is a matter of principle for me with regard to such proposals, which I would like to put on the table every time. The other - and I do not wish to repeat this, only at the level of the mention - is that, my fellow Members, the presentation of its representatives here without social debate is not a first criticism here in this House, but it has been for five years. And criticizing that is one thing. However, I do not need to remind you that the Constitutional Court has expressly stated that it is not acceptable for representatives of the broad range of legal entities to come here as an independent motion. I'm not saying that. That's what the Constitutional Court said. When you have put forward laws of such importance here as an independent motion by your representatives, such as the Church Act, when it comes to comprehensive regulation of such importance, you should be expected to come here as a government proposal, because it is obviously the government's idea to change, and I do not believe, Congressman, however much I value you, that you should have thought that NAT should be abolished. You've probably been asked to take this in your name, by the way, as a government proposal, as in so many cases this has happened in the last five years. This is what the Constitutional Court said it could not be, to which it said that this was circumvention of legislative laws. But many have already drawn your attention to this. When there was legislation that was partly unconstitutional, it would be worth reconsidering after five years, especially after the loss of two thirds. Ladies and gentlemen, For the first time, we are now faced with the fact that if a criticism of an institution is raised, even a legitimate criticism, then you have the reaction to it being plowed and sprinkled with salt. When even legitimate criticisms about the National Judicial Council were made at the time, their reaction was to eliminate it. But it wasn't the only institution. Now they do likewise, instead of trying to correct and correct errors. I think that they serve as an argument for you to pass through your centralization efforts, and I find this very inappropriate. By the way, about the presence of the State Secretary, to which one of my fellow Members referred, it is worth noting that it is an unfortunate practice for the government - and this is not the first time - that the State Secretarys are switching during a debate. I do not know how Mr Secretary of State will react to any of the points, if he would at all want to, which he was not present and did not hear. I think that the presence of the government in such a debate should not be formal, but content. If, for example, the State Secretarys - and this is not the first time - and in serious laws, I remember, for example, what happened in the law on electoral proceedings, or what happened in some of the debates of the laws on courts - are changing each other so that there is a formal presence, this is not the same as the presence of substance in the government, because, as I said, obviously, Mr State Secretary will not be able to answer the questions or suggestions that were raised when he was not here. I don't think you're lucky for the last ten minutes in this debate. [[13.30]] In the same way, at the end of my speech, I would also like to ask that, as far as possible, the rapporteur or the secretary of state, which has been argued, at least since he is here, to respond to them during the debate, and not to follow the bad habit that they have also been doing for five years, to state their views on what has been said in the debate, so that they cannot respond at that time, by the way, to opposition representatives. Then it is not a debate, but a series of revelations, which, I think, does not become a greater glory in parliamentarism. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-75	Thank you. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was quite right, Mr President, that the representatives of the government decide for themselves who is sitting here, but the practicality dictates that each item on the agenda, let's say, be heard by a secretary of state, because it will be easier to answer questions. I do not want to go along with this reasoning; my fellow Member, Barándy, has also confirmed this. My fellow Member, Mr Satmary, I have already asked three specific questions, and I see that I will no longer have an answer on the way, so I would like to ask the fourth one with the hope that it may affect all four of them in its closet. The fourth is that by abolishing the national accreditation council in Hungary - almost after a six-month period - we will put ourselves out of the European accreditation system, so to speak, and we all know, and you know it, Mr. State Secretary, and all of us, that in order to have accreditation permissions again, years will pass; we hope not more, but a year or two certainly. I would like to have an answer to how Hungarian interests, which I believe are important to all Members in this Parliament, are now weakened from the point of view of Fidesz. How? If non-Hungarian accreditation bodies will actually take action, and it will be the foreign accreditation bodies that will provide a helping hand - quoted - in order to... - where are the interests of Hungary in such cases? How are these going to work? How do you intend to strengthen these? I will not repeat the other three questions, which you know, my fellow Member, I hope you will answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-77	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for the floor in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-16-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to add a few things to Gergely Bárándy's speech, because he has said it, and I believe that it is quite a faruci situation, that there is a justification coming from Fidesz for raising their voice against centralization after a five-year period that we have seen that there is almost no area of life where there has not been a fidesz centralization over the past five years. The other thing I said here in my previous speech, but at the time, Mr Secretary of State was not here, that I also think it is important that the government not only represents Fidesz, but all Hungarian people, and all of these Hungarian citizens and voters also include citizens voting for opposition parties, for whom we can be here, so I think that the government should engage in dialogue with us. As a Hungarian citizen, it is very important that the government does not suffer a loss of prestige on its own account, and this means that, although it was your fault that there was a State Secretary's exchange here during the debate, which took place over an hour ago, almost an hour and twenty minutes ago, when this exchange took place, it is true that Mr Tállai State Secretary was physically present, but there would not have been such a big change to the questions that we have asked, I imagine, that he would not have answered very much; however, I think you are equally aware of the real reason for this law; it is not the justification, but why you would want to change this system. But if Mr President had allowed me - and I apologize, because it is only up to Mr President's goodwill - I would once again ask the questions that I had addressed to the government, and I would have expected the government to give me the answers here in the coming period, just because I can see that Mr. State Secretary might be inclined to answer us, and not just in the closing, to have the questions that have been raised here for the previous hour and a half. One was, therefore, that since Mr Tállai, State Secretary, said that accreditation should be made more efficient, I asked what studies were available for this, what structural form would you like to do this differently and make it more efficient, or perhaps even concrete examples of what had been the problem with this organisation so far. I also asked if this organization has been working badly for the last five years - because you have been ruling for five years, and probably not the day before yesterday, these problems that you are talking about, but we do not know what these problems are - whether in the jurisdictional supervisory powers - because the Ministry has legal oversight over this organization - have been any proceedings against the organization in the last three years. Then I asked him what measures the wallet had taken over the last three years in the NAT case, and we were curious about specific cases. Have there been any complaints in the last three years, and if so, how many of these complaints have been received from your wallet regarding the operation of NAT? Does the portfolio have an established position on which body or organisation will perform accreditation tasks after 1 January 2016? What is your real position on the bill in question? So, for what technical reasons is it necessary to abolish the current system? And finally, I asked whether there was any survey of your wallet on how long it would take to set up a new organisation and, most importantly, to recognise this organisation in the EU, as this will determine how this system will work. These were my questions, and I will tell Mr Secretary of State once again - no more - because you may not have heard that opposition representatives have asked the government and the rapporteur not to respond in the closing words, so that we can react and debate. If you can answer any of these questions, please be kind and give us an answer now. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-79	Dear Parliament, Árpád Velez asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have one last question to ask to my fellow Member, Kristóf Szatmáry: did you examine the Fidesz faction during work and compilation, that the police's investigative work is impossible, after criminal DNA tests can only be carried out by accredited labs according to the law? Has this been calculated for the next two years, and has this decision been taken in the light of it, and has you, as a Member, submitted this proposal? That would have been a question. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-16-81	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. I would just like to inform my fellow Members that the rapporteur is Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, and the government is clearly expressing its position in all cases. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-16-82	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to react very briefly to three things. One is the modification of the government representation during the debate. Deputy Minister Tallai had to leave because of his urgent public tasks, but, as Mr President said - and thank you this time - the government's representation is certainly assured. On the other hand, as regards professional issues, it has already been said in the debate that the Government has discussed the proposal and supports it. It is clear that many questions arise during the debate on the bill, which is why there is also a period of general debate when they can be answered in the course of the detailed debate during the submission of amendments when professional questions can be answered. The author also expressed his view that the government found this proposal to be eligible for aid. The third thing I would like to respond to very briefly is why the government that took office in 2010 is now initiating this amendment in 2015. [[13.40]] I think that there are a number of tasks ahead of the government that have to be done, and we still have a number of tasks ahead of us. Undoubtedly, all problems could not be solved with a stroke of a pen, a measure and a short period of time. I think that in the normal course of carrying out these tasks, there are issues that have now been able to come before the Parliament, and this proposal has been formulated by a Member of Parliament, for which the rules, according to the procedure, have drawn up his position. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-16-83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for the floor in two minutes. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-84	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for his comment. You've done more than Secretary of State Tallai in an hour and 20 minutes, and you've honored us with at least one answer. But, Mr Secretary, the problem is that you are saying that we should put forward amendments. What amendment can be made to this bill when you want to abolish an organisation with this bill? There is one amendment: do not stop this organisation! From now on, there is no other amendment. There would be proposals to amend if you did not want to eliminate the organization, but to honestly tell Parliament what the problems are, what the real problems we would understand and possibly improve the whole structural situation or, say, the over-focused force field, and then change it, change the law so that this organisation will remain, but this organization will have different laws or, as I have said, ministerial regulations to influence its operation, structural operation and everything else. Then we could submit amendments, so unfortunately we can't. So, when we do not really know the real essence of the problem, there are no examples of the operational problems that have been encountered in the past period, and we have before us a bill with only one purpose to end this organisation and then to create an organisation that we absolutely know nothing about, we cannot make any other amendment than what we have said here: our amendment proposal is that the author withdraws this bill. This could be the only amendment. That's what we did, by the way, orally. If you take our arguments into account, of course, you will be able to implement them, because it is nothing more than to discuss with the rapporteur that you should be so kind as to withdraw this bill and thus accept the opposition's proposal to amend it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-85	Thank you. Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, submitted a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let's get this straight. If the rapporteur and the secretary of state have already agreed for a minute or two, then let's look at the part of what it is that started it, which has sparked the submission of this bill. Who's gonna spot you or who's gonna stab you in the eye? Or, if not who and who, then what is the content that led to this decision being reached in-depth circles, because there is no social extension of the story that they intend to terminate the national accreditation council. What is content or lack of substance? What number of mistakes lie behind the activities of the past years, which confirms that this step must be taken? So I would like to see clearly, clearly and clearly what the motive for this story is. I can only refer to what my fellow Member Szatmáry said in his introductory thoughts: it seems like it. It seems as though the category of the bill to submit the bill is far from sufficient, according to my judgment. So it's like operational problems, problems... [[To intervene:]] What do you mean, it looks like it? Are there or aren't there? If there are, what are they? Can they be cured or cannot be cured? Can they be repaired or not repaired? Are there new or no new solutions? If they have a problem not with content but, where appropriate, with actors, can the story be corrected or not corrected by people with a necessary professional background? Straight, clear answers to straight, clear questions can be given. But what you're doing here, without avoiding any foreseeable damage, is unacceptable. There really is only one way: this bill must be withdrawn. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-16-87	Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. [[A voice from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] I will ask Mr Kristóf Szatmáry if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Congressman says yes. I'll give you the floor as your pointer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-88	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The first question that came to my mind in connection with the debate was whether, in fact, my fellow Members knew, outside the material submitted and outside the letter from the President of the NAT, the system that is now operating in Hungary in accreditation. I had the feeling in some parts of the debate that they did not know the part about the very, very many companies involved in accreditation complaining; and I dare say, as the State Secretary in charge of this area in the NGM, that there were several complaints received by companies - perhaps even answers to questions - about the fact that the Hungarian accreditation system is opaque, slow and expensive in the European context. So I would ask my fellow Members that, before they fully believe that this bill should not be here before Parliament, I would ask them not only to be informed by the letter of the President of the NAT, because, as a matter of fact, it was quite against the fact that his organisation would be subject to a major transformation, to an end; but also to contact organisations who were involved and whose letter, although it is probably true that another opinion could be found... - who were dissatisfied and asked for it from the government. I would say to my fellow Member, György Szilágyi, that judicial supervision should not be confused with the possibility that a government has the opportunity to try to improve a malfunctioning system. That's not what legal supervision is about, Congressman. Legality supervision gives you permissions against an organization if there are problems in terms of legality. If an organisation otherwise does not function well, if, by the way, the quasi-professional requests relating to the speed, efficiency and costs of cases are not respected, it does not take measures to eliminate the weak, thin legality supervision that is in the current system, unfortunately it has not been suitable in recent years, which is why we had to go on a radically different path. What may have been a professional question is why this proposal is, perhaps in my introduction, I did not intend to give it sufficient weight. But the biggest problem with the current system is that, in essence, the public body operated by accreditation organisations is accrediting itself or deciding how and how the other committees appointed by the management there are accrediting their own members. When a circle closes, it is not to be confused with the centralisation that may be expected by the state, but the problem is that it is essentially the same decision makers within an organisation, which has caused very serious structural problems in the long term. My fellow Member Kepli raised the question as to why this is the solution. The problem arises precisely from thinking about how to keep the form of a public body, but to replace the members in fact, to resolve this contrast, that in essence the members of the public body are narrowly the same as those who give the administration and the committee, who control themselves in essence. Here, for example, the German model, which I mentioned, where the accreditation body system operates in a structure where one third of the economic organisations - who otherwise do not participate in accreditation, but are involved in chambers and other organisations - are delegated by the provinces, and one third by the ministries; which would avoid the problem of not accrediting themselves, but another broader base. [[13.50]] Unfortunately, the Hungarian administration system is a little different from German, there are no provinces, and in essence - perhaps if the Ministry of Justice had been here, it would have been able to say that - the kind of alternative that would have kept the character of the public body, but with a different assembly structure it would have eliminated this snake that bites its own tail, figuratively, by rejecting it, inter alia, for reasons of legality and constitutionality. And here comes the solution, which may seem quite drastic to cut through the Gordian knot, which is essentially to be a budgetary body that will carry out this task in the future, on the basis of European examples. I would not want to get into a long debate with my fellow Member Barándy as to whether the state can be a good farmer or not. I think that... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I said centralize!]] Or whether it can be centralized or not. I think I wouldn't want to be too popular, but he works in the Hungarian administration because he works in the Hungarian administration, and I think that a number of experts, who are also recognised by you, would resent it if we told him that just because he does professional work within the framework of the administration, he works worse because of some kind of centralization than in an outsourced activity. I therefore believe that in the debate on whether it is possible to perform well in a centralised manner within the State, I am in a different position. I, to tell you the truth, here, excuse me, I am surprised at the position of the righty fellow Members, and now really allow me not to express myself personally, although my fellow Member Szilágyi's comments on the fact that here we would only want to favour some fidesz in relation to the proposal being tabled, so I reject it, so that is not what this is about; we would like to make a bad system better. But back to the right-hand position: if I understand correctly, you have said what I have not felt in such a difference between us in recent years as to whether the state can be a good farmer, so can the state be a good farmer in terms of providing a system that is not functioning properly within the budgetary framework of some kind of organisation. I think that the last 10-15 years have proved that the state can and should be given much more emphasis in certain areas, and especially in the area of control and accreditation, where there are very serious responsibilities, there may be a need for a greater involvement of the state. I hope that, in addition to this particular case, there is no such difference in our position. I may have left the summation of the whole debate or the most important question at the end, which is basically about what is going on with the issue of succession, because the question of succession raises the question of what is happening in the possibly absenting accreditation period. By the way, I would suggest that the amendment itself does not provide that organisations with existing accreditation do not cease to have an accredited status from the termination of the NAT, and the question of where they can subsequently renew their accreditation. This is quite diverse, with different organisations with different lengths of accreditation. This is probably where - and you may be right about the Members - the amendment will have to be tabled, which I will not be able to do, as I am the author, and the question of the succession of the NAT must be clarified in the proposal. This is precisely why there is a good six-month transition period, because the government must set up and appoint the organisation that will carry out this accreditation. Now, I think it's kind of the foresight that said that we should bring in this law now, even if we have six months to build this institution by the government, so that the actors can prepare themselves. This is where the two years were, by the way. Here, there is only one virtually weak point in this whole system, and this has given us quite a long time to wonder whether or not the national accreditation institution itself is determined by the European Accreditation Centre. This two-year period is a threat, but it's not an obligation. I think that the Hungarian State is otherwise prepared to name an organisation that, even in a month, fulfills the tasks and abilities required to obtain European accreditation, but I would indicate that if the European Accreditation Centre had only changed three letters on the current NAT law, it would still have the right to suspend the permissions of the Hungarian National Accreditation Board. So if we write a completely new law, if we rewrite three lines in the accreditation law, the European Centre still has the right to suspend the authorisation procedure for NAT. What we need to prepare for, and because it will function as a budgetary body, the main negotiation here must take place with the European Centre, whether in the matter of succession or in obtaining new accreditation, i.e. in terms of the budgetary body, how quickly we can act. I think that even if we had just touched it a little bit, there would have been the same danger, knowing perhaps the good relationship between the Hungarian and European centres, and there is the same danger even if we had built a whole new system. Precisely indicating the problems or the problems that would have been encoded in the current structure, we have chosen to suspend, however, once again, the permissions of the Hungarian national accreditation organisation in Brussels, if we had created a completely new system, and if we had only modified three sentences in the law, we would have rather said to build a new system, a system that, based on European examples, could operate with much more central insight, much greater, otherwise precisely in the interests of entrepreneurs, and we should start on this path, because, once again, if my fellow Members read not only this letter, but also speak to other organisations, there are very, very many complaints about the length of procedures, the lack of transparency of internal systems, the fees and more likely not only to reach me, but also you. Once again, in view of the fact that it is likely that the proposal will be amended either by committee or by other means, I hope that it is not the only opposition reaction to this, that we should not do anything at the time, but that we should start on this path, and indeed by building up a better system, we will try to reduce the dangers that affect our central status in Europe, because, once again, not because of the Fidesz faction, but because of Fidesz, but because of the fact that all companies in the country which deal with accreditation, others, can carry out these accreditations as cheaply, quickly and effectively as possible in European terms. That is why I would like my fellow Members to contribute to the adoption of the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-89	Thank you, Secretary of State, I'm sorry, Mr. Congressman, but the title of Secretary of State is due anyway. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports and a summary amendment proposal for a proposal to amend certain transport-related laws. The submission is T/4888. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to close a detailed debate T/4888/2. and T/4888/3. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4888/5. and the summary report is T/4888/6. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate, with a total of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. [[14.00]]
u2015-06-16-90	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is the house rule 46. T/4888 on the amendment of certain transport-related laws. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour, 6 against and 7 abstentions. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, one of the points of the Economic Committee's amendment proposal and the legislative committee's own motion. The bill proposes to reschedule to 1 January 2016 the fees payable for the use of roads and the conversion of penalties related to unauthorised use of roads in order to analyse, assess the impact and effectiveness of the changes planned for introduction on the basis of the experience of one year. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] The amendment tabled by the Economic Committee aims to ensure that the toll payment system is fully and simultaneously implemented on 1 January 2016. Through the amendment proposal it can be obtained that the National Toll Payment Service Ltd. and the Central Office for Administrative and Electronic Public Services will be able to implement IT developments supporting the registration of exempt persons at the same pace and thus more effectively. In its own motion, in Act I of 1988 on Road Transport, the ban on the placing on public lighting, electricity and telephone poles of advertising equipment is lifted. This amendment allows the placing of advertising plates, advertising media and other advertising equipment on public lighting, electric and telephone columns within a regulated framework. With regard to this latter provision, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, under the further provisions of the section concerned, the principles of the organisation of road traffic continue to be unchanged, so that road safety aspects remain intact. On this basis, in line with the committee, I call for the support of my fellow Members of Parliament for the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-91	Welcome, fellow Members. The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-06-16-92	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am always interested in listening to my fellow Member who delivered the majority opinion, because he is always presenting the virtues of the law, but I just know that the majority opinion should describe what was said at the committee meeting. Nothing of this has been said at the committee meeting, which my fellow Member has just said and read. Only Congressman Vas Imre spoke to him, but his comment had nothing to do with what my fellow Member Vécsey said. What has been said, however, and I would like to highlight this because unfortunately we have not received answers to critical comments at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. Perhaps now, in this debate, we will be able to receive it either from my fellow Members or from the representative of the government. Because all the groups concerned opposed it, and I can now actually speak for all the factions and all the independent speakers, that the Legislative Committee has adopted a tailor-made amendment for specific economic interests. All the Members who spoke in the debate pointed out that this was all about the fact that before there was a company called ESMA, which was the head of a company, its ownership was not closely linked to Fidesz, and therefore the possibility of placing advertisements on electric poles was abolished by reference to a previous amendment to the law and safety interest. And that's what this company specializes in. In this way, of course, this company was destroyed, and you successfully destroyed it; then this company was later bought by Viktor Orbán's bosom friend, István Garancsi. With this amendment of the law, which lies before us now, all they do is allow advertising on poles again by law and make it legal. That is, if a company not close to Fidesz wants to do this activity, it is dangerous for transport, when it comes to fidesz posters, it is no longer dangerous for transport. There we asked the Secretary of State - Secretary Zsolt Szabó represented the government - whether there is any statement of how traffic safety and traffic accidents have evolved since the last amendment of the law, i.e. whether the ban actually had any effect on road safety. Mr. Secretary of State said there that you didn't know anything about such a survey. Then I'll ask you again, what we did then, every faction, why - and that was the position of the minority - why we have to restore the former system. If you thought it was a danger to public safety and safety, then István Garancsi's company is no longer a threat to him? I understand that. It's an economic reason. It's a reason that in a dictatorship, in an autocracy, it's natural for a great leader's friend to do whatever he wants. But it's very difficult to accept that as a legislative reason in a democratic state. But we didn't hear any other reason. What was very interesting, however, was that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the representative of the government said that the government has a position on the amendments, except for what I am talking about, because it has not taken a position on this. Ladies and gentlemen, That's very interesting. It's obviously got a message value. Obviously, the government does not want to assume the moral responsibility of your proposal for personalised legislation again. However, I find it difficult to imagine - and this has been said at the Legislative Committee - how a government meeting is going to take place - perhaps I will be assisted by the Secretary of State - where the government will present this proposal, the competent minister or secretary of state will submit that the government should make a decision in this, and then the government will say that I will look at it, that I will make a decision whether I support it or not, that I will not make a decision on another side of it whether I support it or not. What I understand is that with regard to a full proposal, the government, let's say, has no opportunity to give an opinion in time. But if it is already before the government, then it is possible for it to give its opinion on certain parts of the same law, not to give an opinion on the same series of amendments, and on another part. I think, if anything, it speaks for itself, Mr. Secretary of State. I understand you can't explain the inexplicable, I'm just asking why you have to present it. Really, after five years, when everyone's sick and tired of you - I'm sorry to say - robbing this country, that the Prime Minister's circle of friends, that Lőrinc Mészáros, that István Garancsi, that he is your new son-in-law, and I can still tell you who gets government assignments that are about billions of dollars, then why do you have to put this insane cocky amendment proposal here? ! I don't understand. I can't see why this is necessary after five years. I understand it's a big deal, but compared to what's already been missed, I think it's small, crumbs and small change, but people are extremely upset. This is what was clearly drawn up at the Legislative Committee meeting. Each opposition representative, regardless of party standing, is what he has challenged. Finally, what I think is that he speaks mostly for himself, as my fellow Member said, usually the voting rate looked like 21:6:3, or 21 yes, 6 no, 3 abstentions, which followed the line. In this one proposal, honourable Members, the ratio was 16:6:7, i.e. 16:13. It also shows that many of your representatives seem to have had enough of this. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-93	I will ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[14.10]]
u2015-06-16-94	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you is closed today. It aims to clarify the legislation on certain toll payments obligations without any substantive changes and, on the other hand, provides for the designation of the implementation of shipping projects supported by EU and domestic budgetary resources in order to facilitate rapid and effective implementation. Thirdly, the provision contains obligations of the European Union in order to fulfil its obligations as usual in recent years. In fact, we proposed to amend four laws in the amendment. By amending the Road Transport Act, the foreign registration number of vehicles operated by the operators of the motor fleet in Hungary on the basis of a lease or leasing agreement and subject to the payment of the required registration tax will be entitled to drive by domestic individuals without any time limit. Through this amending provision, the law of the European Union has been adopted; my fellow Members are familiar with the different procedures that have been followed. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin will take her place in the notary's seat.]] The Law on the Registration of Road Transport was amended for technical clarification. The amendment to the Water Transport Act designates NIF, National Infrastructure Developer Private Company as a development contributor for the implementation of shipping projects. Following the amendment, NIF Zrt. It will also be responsible for carrying out, inter alia, the Danube waterways, national public ports, preparatory and construction work in connection with the development of the voyage planning system, as well as the purchase of floating facilities and other equipment in connection with the development. In order to include the NIF in shipping projects, it is possible to guarantee the rapid and, I hope, effective implementation of shipping projects. In 2014, the Act on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015 laid down general rules on the standardised system of penalties for e-vignette and e-toll systems. On this basis, the current surcharge in the e-vignette toll system will be replaced by the fines already applied to the e-toll. With the introduction of a fine system, the aim is to establish a regulation that treats minor and bona fide errors fairly, while at the same time applying strict penalties proportionate to the weight of intentional omissions. I think it is important to point out that the effectiveness of fines against both domestic and foreign users should be ensured in the same way when applying the new rules. The date of the standardisation of the sanction system is set by the present bill on 1 January 2016 in order to establish detailed rules favourable to road users. On the basis of a Commission amendment proposal, the date of establishment of a single register of eligible road users, consistent with the system of the bill, will be changed from 1 July 2015 to 1 January 2016; we should rather leave time, but do it preferably without error. With the entry into force of legislative amendments to the toll system on two subjects at the beginning of next year, we have established consistent, long-term and customer-friendly detailed rules, while ensuring a sufficient period of preparation for law enforcement. On the basis of a further Commission amendment proposal, the bill removes the ban on the installation of advertising boards, advertising media and other advertising equipment on public lighting, electric and telephone poles, while keeping road safety considerations in mind. Ladies and gentlemen, I heard from my fellow Member, Barándy, that this concerned the committee and my fellow Member. Honourable Congressman, During the last four years, the lines of the Central Statistical Office, the same line and column, which would otherwise appear year after year, have not shown that this provision had any impact on road accident statistics. It did not improve or worsen them, so the expected effect that we had hoped for was that the number of accidents would decrease with the introduction of this provision, this did not happen, a ignant change, and there was no ignant change to this, so we believe that this ban has been lifted. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Now he's bought the Garanchi. Dr. István Józsa: There is no choice anymore! Powerful terror.]] Honourable Congressman, What I understand is that an opposition representative is a strong voice, especially a strong voice when he sees in it backgrounds and backgrounds that give him the opportunity to be political. And in view of the fact that you're not different, and you're usually talking about government, I respectfully offer you and the people behind you that if you can prove to me that for the past 16 years, let's say someone has paid me one black coffee, that only one person has given me something, then I will give you the truth. But you generalize, and you say that these participants of the site en bloc, as they are, villains, only because we saw and changed the unnecessaryness of a provision four years ago. [[Dr. Tamás Bell: Because you're going to press the button, that's why.]] My esteemed fellow Member, I've lived in this country for 73 years, and I've lived in this country for a significant part when your spiritual ancestors and role models led this country. I was a subordinate of those people, and I witnessed very closely, and more than that, his subject, how this country was destroyed by your predecessors, your referenced ideological foundations. So, not arguing that, as a specific draft law, strong words can be allowed, I ask that they do so in such a way that I do not have to answer in this way and ask that then everyone will stand up for their own words, for their own actions and for their own past. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Just wait! I'll be right back.]] I'm not saying that my fellow Member is referring to family relations, which, by the way, I'm convinced that you are - how should I put it? - you should mention it with caution. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: So be it. Lajos Korózs: Well, what the son-in-law of Orbán is doing in this country is outrageous!]] So you, too, because if we assume that someone is in the first place just because they bear the name they bear, family relationships can get into a particular situation, you would object to it most, and you would be right about that. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: What does the name Tiborcz mean?]] I'm asking you to make no reference to family relationships. We all have our own, sometimes twisted family relationships. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: So be it.]] After all of this has been said, I trust that I have convinced you that this amendment is correct, and on this basis I ask you to support both our original proposal and the summary amendment. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.20]]
u2015-06-16-95	Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee did not set out a rapporteur, so now the speeches will take place in the time frame on the agenda, and a two-minute comment will not be possible here. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing, so Mr Józsa István has the floor.
u2015-06-16-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was very shocked, Mr. Major, by the way, by your sincere, childish naivety. Congressman! Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary. You've seen a crow on a stake. So, this crow just fell off. So, to introduce a ban on advertising before the election, so that the opposition may not be able to advertise on the electricity poles, because there is still one owner who would accept the order, because everything else was covered at the ownership level by the backseat of the government side, then stop being so childishly naive, dear Secretary of State to refer to the safety of transport. That this was introduced before the elections because they thought that this might be a problem from the point of view of road safety. Now that it's been a year, see a miracle. [[To intervene:]] [[To intervene:]] Okay, it's been four years. (Interjection:) Then they've blocked it sooner. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Look at the miracle, they've also economically destroyed ESMA, and it was not just the political goal that led you to prevent the opposition from being able to advertise. Look at wonders, ESMA has been destroyed, Mr. Garancsi has been able to acquire majority ownership at a fraction price, and now it turns out that this is not of any concern from the point of view of road safety. I agree with you on this one, Mr State Secretary, that is not at all a concern from the point of view of road safety. But like you said, it wasn't even four years ago. [[Dr. János Fónagy: We were wrong.]] At the time, too, there was a political goal for the authors of the time, and for political reasons, laws were passed to prevent the use of advertising surfaces on electric columns. By the way, for me, who has been a member of the Hungarian Parliament since 2002, this is not such a long time, but I have seen some stakes in a crow! [[For signal:]] What? Crow on the stake. It's gonna work out somehow. But the other way around, though you might have had to hit those crows to fly away sooner. So, when the Economic Commission was set up in 2014, the very first proposal with a separate motion is that the market-oriented traffic signs belonging to Simicska's interests pose a threat to traffic, unless they have such a licence, see, that is what Bálint Magyar says the Mafia State of Fidesz. Because Parliament, the proposal for Simicska's interest and ESMA's treadmill, had not yet stood up in the Committee on Economics. You're right that I couldn't fully identify these two, so I thought it was just Simicska interest, and since then life has proven that it really was, I didn't see it against ESMA. Maybe it was in another proposal. But the political edge of this legislation is quite clear. So I ask you very nicely, in view of the seriousness of Parliament and its self-esteem, do not want to ignore this political motivation, because it simply cannot be believed. Because it does, it had a political motive. Silence is consent, and then you'll tell me, Mr. Secretary, if that's not the case. [[Dr. János Fónagy: I'm just disciplined.]] I would like to mention one more thing, because you mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, how good this amendment and the harmonisation of EU legislation are with regard to car fleet operators. We see it as a loophole. So so far, in Hungary, the vehicle with the foreign registration number was not usually used or restricted to 30 days by domestic residents. This now allows you to use it for an unlimited period of time. We believe that this is, on the one hand, an opportunity to avoid punishment, because, let's say, after a vehicle with a German registration number, the penalty imposed in the rules of road transport goes back to the perpetrator quite slowly. On the other hand, it also raises problems about how they will tax on it, such as the tax due on local governments. We did not get an answer to that question in the general debate:... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] How much should I leave? Good. So this is a problem that needs to be clarified. I would say that they should be ashamed of themselves for the part of ESMA. If there's anything in your criminal record to prove, there's gonna be concrete evidence. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. László Kács: That's right. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-16-97	I now give the floor to István Ikotity. You have the floor.
u2015-06-16-98	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I'd like to start with the title of a right-wing newspaper. I quote: "Dear Fidesz, this is commie speed! This bill and the amendment we are discussing here are high schools of cynicism. It removes the ban on advertising on road poles introduced in 2012 that no advertising can be placed on public lighting electricity and telephone poles. At the time, they referred to the safety of transport, the fact that advertising distracts drivers from the information that is really important. Its purpose was indeed purely business-based at the time, and we said that at the time in Parliament. The reason and purpose were to put in an impossible position one of Lajos Simicska's competitors, the Spanish advertising company ESMA. Security doesn't matter now, of course, it never mattered, only the money and the friendly entrepreneur, István Garancsi. Garancsi bought the majority of ESMA's ownership, and ads placed on the columns are suddenly no longer dangerous. With this step, Mr. Secretary of State, Members will admit that they lied. The proposal is submitted by the Economic Committee. This committee seems to have an important role to play in moving the big corruption network, thinking about settlement bonds, pumping tens of billions into offshore. There's nothing more to be wasted on, and you know it, and you know it, it's just another gift business for your buddy, while road safety, people's lives, everything else is in the background. It seems the Fidesz is already there, like the MSZP at the end of its administration, that he really doesn't care about anything more than grating and filling their pockets. Believe me, it's not easy to stop on the path of moral depravity, and you look like you're not trying at all. It's the truth. Thank you.
u2015-06-16-99	Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time for the normal people to say the word. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2015-06-16-100	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I really didn't plan on it, and I asked my fellow Member not to talk about it because I didn't plan on commenting on this proposal, but so, the shocking comment, the shocking speech that Secretary Fónagy said here, makes me want to remember and clarify a few things. Mr Secretary of State tried to argue here with the only defenseless argument that there was no reason why this law was adopted at the time, because life proved that they were wrong. Mr. Secretary, who is responsible for that? Who is responsible for the adoption of that law? Who's responsible for destroying a company as a result? Secretary of State, are you aware that the Hungarian State is being sued in this case? [[Dr. János Fónagy nods.]] He's aware of it. Then either you're not telling the truth or you're giving your name to something that's indefensible. Anyway, it doesn't matter to me, whichever variation happened here today. The point is that this company is suing the Hungarian State for interfering with market processes through legislation and is going to demand very serious billions of dollars in compensation. By adopting this law, you decide the fate of this lawsuit. In fact, it has already been decided, because when the Secretary of State stated here that there was no real reason for that bill, he decided in that lawsuit that the Hungarian State would fail. However, there is no Hungarian state, ladies and gentlemen, but you are, personally, by name, who pressed the yes button. Secretary of State, probably you, too, personally. And when you say that we do not have the courage to speak here as opponents and ask you to be held accountable, yes, yes, only one personally accountable company in this country, in this case you are those who pressed the yes button. And they're about to press the yes button of this filth and name it all. Mr. Secretary. It's a roadblock, what you're doing. Get out of the way! They abuse their authority from the people to influence the affairs of the country here and to improve people's lives with regulators. [[14.30]] You guys abuse this in a mean way, and you're gonna destroy market players like a thief, and then you're gonna fill the pockets of the Prime Minister's buddy. You can't protect that, Mr. Secretary. And if you have lived your life honestly and honestly, which I can believe and accept, then one: you do not start personalizing my fellow Member, Barándy, without having anything to add. His father may have been his name, but when he was a minister, he never got a stinking penny assignment. As opposed to your Attorney General, who is today the Minister of Justice who receives HUF 1.7 billion from his own law firm. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame!]] from his own government. That the Papcsak is still sitting here, taking hundreds of millions of dollars a year from his law firm as a dividend, as long as he's a congressman. And you're the one who lectures us here, Mr. Secretary. What you're doing here today is exactly what you just said. And it may be called the Fidesz government today, but their mean methods are no better than an inch above the system that we wanted to abolish, and we want him never to come back before there's ever been a misunderstanding between us again, Secretary of State. If you can't agree with that, then stand up and say so, or if you vote in favour, then, and you don't want to take this thing in your name, then give up your position as Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-101	I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to comment on the remaining timeframe. I don't see a candidate. [[Dr. László Szakács: Your fellow Members have protected Mr. Secretary of State well!]] Mr. Secretary of State has 30 seconds as rapporteur to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-16-102	Thank you very much. I am just saying, in order to correct the irritable words, that the argument was not that there was no reason for it at the time; then we had a good assumption that, by the way, the signs on the side of the road had an impact on road safety. And I said, please check that the accident statistics of the last few years didn't support it. That's what I said and that's all I said. And the rest is who's responsible for this, believe me, I know exactly as well as you do. Yours and mine. Thank you.
u2015-06-16-103	Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the e-card and to the 2013 Act L on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies and the final amendment proposal are now under discussion. The submission is T/4857. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Judicial Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4857/6. and T/4857/7. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4857/9. and the summary report is T/4857/10. Available on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-16-104	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is the house rule 46. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act on the Electronic Information Security of State and Local Government Act L of 2013 T/4857, it discussed the amendments to certain laws necessary for the implementation of the e-card and to Act L of 2013 on the Electronic Information Security of State and Local Government Bodies. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report containing 27 yes and 7 abstentions, i.e. no vote against. The fact that no votes were received for the submission of the summarised amendment may also be due to the fact that the Ministry of Interior had two five-party discussions, in a constructive manner. As a result of the consultations, the summary amendment proposal contains the legislative committee's own motion. The most important change compared to the original bill is that points 6 and 7 of the amending proposal transform the rules of the fingerprint stored in the new ID card, so that the storage of fingerprints will not be a mandatory element, the citizen may refuse to record. However, the bill also indicated that the possibilities of using fingerprint storage could be regulated by later laws. That is, the law may determine advantages when the fingerprints are stored. We can support this proposal together with my fellow members of the Government; please do the same. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-105	I will ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás, as rapporteur, if he wishes to comment. It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-16-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, During the general debate on the bill, certain doubts on the opposition side have already become apparent, and then, on two occasions, we held a five-party consultation, which we sought to bring the positions closer together in five-party negotiations. Basically, the biggest debate, the biggest doubt, was the part of the new ID that could be used to store fingerprints. And in order to remove this doubt or to make the proposal acceptable, the proposal was finally proposed to make it possible to refuse fingerprinting, so the new electronic identity card will be made in two versions. In one version, where the applicant for the ID agrees to store fingerprints, fingerprint storage, if not, and in the event of no fingerprint storage. This will, of course, make it unnecessary for the police law to be amended. With regard to the introduction of the ID, there was a lot of fear that the data could be combined. I believe that, both in the debate on the bill and in the five-party consultation, it has become clear to everyone that the ID itself does not contain data, that the interconnection of databases is not possible either on a legal basis or on a technical basis. The proper security of these is guaranteed by law and the fact that databases are not connected on an external network. Therefore, this ensures that all data cannot be linked to a person, and the profiling charge or the suggestion that people can be profiled in this way is completely excluded. So the data of the new card is clearly handled in such a way that the data can only be accessed by the person who is entitled to read and use the data. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-107	Ladies and gentlemen, The Judicial Committee did not submit a rapporteur, so now it is time for the representatives to speak. Only Member Tamás Harangozó indicated his intention to speak. I'll give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-108	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Following the submission of the bill, the Ministry of Interior convened a five-party consultation. In a letter of nearly ten pages, the MSZP faction provided both legal and political concerns to the Ministry of Interior. In this there were public complaints, objections to the IT system, and, of course, political objections, it is clear that after the submission of a law, they do not have much of a five-party discussion, at least not those that one would assume would have meaningful discussions. [[14.40]] Compared to this, the second five-party debate was convened a few hours before the legislative committee meeting, and we indicated that we did not wish to participate in this respect, and that our legal opinion was delivered. Compared to this, the Ministry of Interior has also removed the proposal from the TAB's agenda and has postponed the vote by one week, and in this one week there has really been substantial progress, which we, too, expressly welcomed at the Legislative Committee's meeting and considered to be very good. Here, without the need for completeness, we think that what concerns citizens most is that fingerprints will not be a mandatory element of this card, so the police will not have access to fingerprints on a one-time confirmation, which means that a serious two-thirds part of the law has been removed. That the electronic signature will not be mandatory in the form it appeared in; and that, on the one hand, citizens will have access to their data, so they can check it, although it was also included in the original proposal, but I think it is very important from a guarantee point of view. The fact that, when the card is created, it is obviously necessary to collect these data from several databases at once, but after sending it to the card, the database that contains all the data at once will have to be destroyed immediately. These are very important guarantees. And by giving citizens four or five different cards alone, and even the public administration in a different capacity, with cards for different prices and amounts, which, for example, let everyone know that today the social security card is of such quality that it is a miracle that if citizens can take care not to fail, it is a particularly forward-looking proposal from the citizen's point of view. For which we cannot vote in favour, but we have abstained and will abstain, we have said our objections at the legislative committee meeting. On the one hand, there is a guarantee that this bill, through the law on IT security, gives the National Security Service a task, which, in our view, is not a concern, but giving any task to the secret service through a half of the law, is a matter of particular concern. 'Cause today you're gonna get an acceptable and justified task, but if we make a system out of it, we can put it in a shot of law tomorrow, so here we are, I don't know, watching all the blondes, brunettes or blue eyes in the country, and then you can put that in with a shot of law. We don't think it's a good solution. On our part, it would have been even more acceptable if we had properly regulated this in two-thirds terms, in the National Security Act, even supported it. So it's not eligible for us. The other is that there are many questions in this case that will be decided when it is implemented whether this system will actually be good or not. Today, the bill does not authorise government regulation in a number of cases, in which we consider it necessary to have a government mandate. Now, not because we want to give the government additional powers, but precisely because the government decree is a transparent, publicly accessible law, and the various IT security issues, regulating access to people's personal data and other details, in our view, would have been reassuring if it had been regulated by separate government regulations, and people had access to it, and they knew exactly what would happen to their case, their data. At the same time, the bill itself on all matters of constitutional concern compared to the submission, I can say that it has been improved, so it can be supported, but we will abstain because of these objections and these problems. If, in the course of the implementation of the e-card, you will see that it is worth heeding the amendments that have survived after the last few days, then we look forward to BM here in the autumn, before Parliament, and we will support any proposals that accept these professional objections or our professional requests. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-16-109	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-06-16-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make two points in total, so I am not taking advantage of the time frame. One of my comments is that it is good that several of the arguments made in the general debate have been heard, and this is confirmed through the TAB meeting. In this sense, it can be said that faith or hope has not been lost permanently, that it makes sense to make proposals for legislative amendments or to make comments between Parliament's walls. And my other short opinion relates to the preparation work itself, which is no longer so good. So I think that if the government, any wallet, is serious about the importance of the opinion of the parliamentary parties in the context of a legislative amendment, it is not necessary to initiate the call for a five-party life in this regard after the submission, or, as Tamás Harangozó said, not one or two hours before the TAB meeting. On these non-formal issues, because it is very important to think about issues affecting content, just as I said at the outset, as a positive point, that it is good that more comments from the opposition side have been accepted. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-16-111	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Pogács if he'd like to comment. [[On the sign of Tibor Scones:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2015-06-16-112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The questions raised in the general debate on the bill and the amendments clearly pointed out that, although the bill has indeed been tabled, there are certainly elements that are part of the bill, and since this bill is very closely linked to technical conditions, technical background and technical solutions, there are certainly open questions for which the five-party consultation should be convened, since these five-party negotiations could, and have become, clarified, technical issues, legal issues, and indeed substantial changes could have been made to the law. The text of the proposal was therefore amended in substance on the basis of the summarised amendment. The most important thing that has been highlighted today is that the new identity card will not be required to store fingerprints, to give fingerprints, so the citizen, if he does not wish, does not need to have his fingerprints recorded when he has the ID drawn up. Obviously, time will decide what comfort features and additional benefits you can get if your ID is fingerprinted, but it can be entirely his own decision. There have been serious concerns about data protection. The proposal therefore also states that the storage element of the identity card should be designed in such a way that the data indicated in the storage element can only be known by the body authorised by law or by the authorised person. So both the ID and the readers must be technically designed to comply with this principle. The proposal does not modify the processing rights, so for all data, it remains, everywhere, only those who have had the right to do so can manage it. Looking at the identity card page, the answer to concern is that all the technological conditions guarantee that the new card to be created is safe in itself. This is not a legal regulatory issue, the legal framework has been and will continue to be a technological issue, and in these improvements this can be achieved by setting the minimum technical conditions that must be consistently taken into account in the development process. The new card will therefore be used in such a way that the KEK KH will not be able to access the data, only those that it is otherwise entitled to handle. Automated, secure systems will continue to guarantee data protection. With regard to the registry, it should continue to be pointed out that there is no universal identification code. So the new ID doesn't replace a code, which would make the data connectable from an IT site, so this ID doesn't mean a new ID code. [[14.50]] The body keeping the registry shall store only the so-called encrypted ordering contact codes, which are assigned to the ordering records of the natural person concerned, indicating their types. The registry shall not handle any other identification of the natural person or the identity of the person, and shall delete the natural identity data transmitted to it by the body holding the registry immediately after the contact codes have been established. The experience of the period since the entry into force of Act L of 2013 on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies made it necessary to examine the application of the law and to review the regulation. During the implementation of the law, the organisations concerned indicated that there would be an unreasonable high cost of achieving the organisational security level in accordance with the rules in force. In the bill, therefore, the former electronic information system-side approach is replaced by the data-based approach used by the organisational unit, thus achieving the organisational security level entails rational costs, and there is no undue expense. The fact that there is a higher level of protection within an organisation in terms of information security does not mean that there is a need to achieve higher expectations for the entire organisation, thus saving significant costs. A system of vulnerability testing of electronic information systems is also being transformed. In addition to the public body designated by the government, the task may be undertaken by national security-controlled market participants. The vulnerability assessment of bodies subject to national security protection will be carried out by a public body designated in the Government Decree. In the case of bodies not subject to national security protection, vulnerability testing may also be carried out by an economic company which complies with the required high level of safety requirements. It will also be a new provision that, if an organisation's effectiveness poses a threat and the authority is forced to act in the interests of safety instead of the organisation, the cost of this is not for the authority but for the organisation concerned. Dear Parliament, We are convinced that the bill is a major step forward in order to bring electronic public services all closer to citizens. The new card, the assembly register and the information security rules that remain on guard ensure that the administration is easier, smoother and safer at the same time. In order to ensure this, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-16-113	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Next up is CXXII of 2010 on the National Tax and Customs Office. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/4742. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/4742/10. was given to them. Report by the Enterprise Development Committee on the detailed debate T/4742/9. T/4742/11. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4742/13. and the summary report is T/4742/14. Available on the website. A total of 15 minutes is available to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. In this context, I will give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, rapporteur of the committee, for the first time.
u2015-06-16-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At its meeting on 11 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed CXXII of 2010 on the National Tax and Customs Office. T/4742. Bill No. 1. During the meeting of the Committee, the members discussed the legislative committee's own amendments. Points 5 and 16 of the Legislative Committee's own amendment proposal, which aims to maintain the existing rules on the management of finance officers, and includes changes in wording and language positioning, were unanimously supported by 29 votes in favour, without voting against or abstention. At the committee meeting - to say what comments were made on the opposition side - Mr Tamás Harangozó MSZP MEP said that all mandatory provisions will be removed from the HSzt. I think that we cannot agree with this sombre comment. When the old and the new Hst. seeks to ensure consistency between the rules on service relations, while at the same time creating order in the context of the introduction of a career model by law enforcement bodies, the provisions which the old and the new HSt harmonise. This is the very amendment of the law that corrects me. I think I can refer, as a basic definition, to the fact that the service relationship of the staff concerned, including law enforcement workers, and in this circle, which we are talking about, is also the special public service relationship between the State and the members of the professional staff, in which both parties are subject to obligations and rights in accordance with specific conditions of service. I wanted to emphasise this because I do not agree that the positive provisions will be replaced by provisions that actually create difficulties for members of this stock, because in a career model a serious set of requirements must also be formulated, and the intention is that for colleagues working in this area - typically finance officers - the situation without control should be clarified by the amendment of the law. The aim is to improve the efficiency of tax collection in the tax office, which is responsible for a significant part of the revenue of the state budget, and to continue to develop procedures that are simpler for businesses and individuals while at the same time ensuring maximum collection of the required revenue. According to one survey, the National Tax and Customs Office's auditors carried out 38 thousand tax checks in 2013 and this figure is likely to continue to increase in 2014. Without a proper IT professional base, that would have been impossible. In summing up all the opinions expressed in the committee, I ask in plenary that the Committee's summary amendment and the summary report, adopted by 23 votes in favour and no votes against, with 6 abstentions, be adopted by Parliament and approve the amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-16-115	The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum time frame of 7 minutes. In this context, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó.
u2015-06-16-116	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I'm glad you're taking notes when we speak to you at the committee meeting, but you don't seem to understand exactly what we were talking about. On the other hand, I think that fundamental issues have been left out of the majority opinion, but I will try to address this small issue within the framework of the minority opinion. For example, it seems that the proposal of the President of the NAV regarding his powers has been omitted. As far as the substance of the bill is concerned, have I tabled nearly half a dozen proposals with my fellow Members - or alone? I do not even remember - for this bill, which would have taken precisely those cases out of the law, where it is clear that you will now be asked to transpose the provisions of the NAV staff of the new HSt., the Professional Service Act, which are only to be interpreted negatively and negatively for the stock, while with the salary system, the promotional system, and everything else that is supposed to be good for the stock, the passes relating to it have been accidentally forgotten. To this, even the present Secretary of State noted that - yes, God, I don't know how many times we've heard this - they'll make a law to settle this. We've been listening to this since January. We first listened to it when they missed out on Hst., that there would be another law that would fix it. And now they're making a law that puts all the wrongs into it, and nothing that's good for the stock, and now, in the middle of the summer, we're still listening to the fact that, indeed, God, they're going to pass a law on the possible 30 percent wage increase in the NAV population, the promotional system, or the reform of Hst. The other law enforcement agencies think he's gonna go with them. [[15.00]] It is interesting that my amendments were voted off by the Defence Committee without question, without debate, in about five minutes, all the points, and then, as a TAB modifier, the government itself brought back one of my proposals, which is about the fact that, from the point of view of the finance officer's staff, the rules governing financial officers could have been conducted on much more brutal terms than the new HST. Once again, this has been discussed, the committee has been voted off without question and brought back at the last minute. What my fellow Member pointed out was that which amending proposal received unanimous support in the committee, one of which was exactly this. But what was left out of the majority opinion - and I think this should have started, because this is how the debate of the agenda itself began - is that the government, I think Minister Varga sent the amendment package to the Legislative Committee sometime on Wednesday night or afternoon, and one of the most surprising points of this was what the next morning, almost before the Members, the People's Freedom had written in front of the front page, that the Parliament would take away the right from the Prime Minister to appoint or relieve the President of the National Tax and Customs Office, and would give this license to the Minister, Minister Varga. This proposal - we have judged it ourselves and we have wished to put it into question - is against house rules as it is, since those paragraphs in the bill were not opened where this could have been resolved. Surprisingly, Gergely Gulyás, the Fidesz chairman of the Legislative Committee, put the question to the vote himself, whether this proposal is house-based, and he himself noted that he did not. It was no longer a miracle here, and the committee, together with the Fidesz MEPs, voted against this proposal, so that it could be mentioned at all. It would be particularly amusing, or it would be if we didn't talk about people's lives, not the prestige of a country, its legal certainty, and its integrity. To present here that this was the proposal of the Legislative Committee, and not by the Ministry of National Economy, and Mihály Varga himself wanted to pass this proposal - whether or not it was Viktor Orbán who, at the request of Viktor Orbán, said that he would not and would not dare to engage in such a clear and open conflict with Lajos Simicska, that one of his best cadres, who is obviously in one of the best seats in the state administration today, in the presidency of the National Tax and Customs Office, should be replaced from there, but he wished to give this honour to Mr Varga, out of cowardice or calculation - we will never know this, because, returning to his cynic part, the Chairman of the Legislative Committee voted his own proposal that it was against house rules. It is clear from this that these are not the proposals of the Legislative Committee, but simply by the government, by the Fidesz majority of the Legislative Committee, to present these proposals. I add, apparently, that 99 percent of the Fidesz members of the Legislative Committee, who are allowed, and 90 percent of them have no idea what is in these proposals. Perhaps President Gulyás and one or two more people and the apparatus who read these proposals at night have a vague idea of how the Hungarian government, through the Hungarian Parliament, would otherwise wish to change the laws at the last minute according to the taste of its own mouth, and how the Fidesz majority almost always assists in doing so. I would add that the proposal has now been voted off, and it has also begun to draw up a bill - here I refer to the previous debate, where the Garancsi business had to be made for the Fidesz MEPs - that it was quite nice to see that perhaps half of the Fidesz majority of the Legislative Committee refused to give their name to that proposal. We very much hope that it will be more and more, and we very much hope that it will show itself not only in committee, but also in plenary, that there are also decent people on the government side. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-16-117	Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to ask the author, Mr Péter Benő Banai, if he wishes to comment. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] Not at the moment. Then it is time for the speeches by the Members. First, I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger.
u2015-06-16-118	Mr President, Dear House, CXXII of 2010 on the National Tax and Customs Office T/4742. There is a bill before us. On the basis of the Commission's report, the proposal complies with the Decision House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 (), i.e. it meets the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, fits into the unity of the legal system, complies with international and European Union law and complies with the professional requirements of the legislation. Five opposition amendments were tabled, which were not supported by the relevant Economic Committee, but the legislative committee proposed minor amendments in the summary amendment. Point 5 is what contains a substantive amendment. The proposal aims to maintain the current rules on the management of financial officers, because it is unjustified to tighten up without compensation under the bill without consent and for the duration, within a year, of four months instead of six months in three years. In addition, let me remind you that the aim of the bill was to improve the efficiency of tax collection in the tax office, which will work with 23 thousand people, responsible for a significant part of the revenue of the state budget, and to continue to develop procedures that will make it easier for businesses and individuals, while at the same time ensuring maximum collection of the required revenue. The Parliament and the government can no doubt support the tax office's complex and difficult work with such and similar regulators. We hope that, if entrepreneurs and citizens feel, experience the effectiveness and effectiveness of controls, it will also strengthen the way in which they follow the law. This proposal, as well as the amendments before us, will serve, on a cross-cutting basis, the effectiveness and effectiveness of the controls, so I would like to ask you to support the summarised amendment and the Commission's report. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-16-119	I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2015-06-16-120	Thank you for the floor. In the context of the TAB's minority opinion, I have made all our important comments and asked all our important questions. With great respect, I would ask the Secretary of State, the Fidesz Members sitting here, someone to answer the questions that we have just asked, in addition to the pre-written text, as part of human interaction. I don't want to say anything more than that. Thank you.
u2015-06-16-121	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to comment. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-16-122	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, With the exception of one substantive amendment and a few grammatical clarifications, the bill is identical to the version you have already heard in the general debate. According to what was said in the debate, the draft law is CXXII of 2010 on the National Tax and Customs Office. Act XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies, known as the NAV Act. It is intended to adapt it to the new HSt, which is the date of entry into force of the amendments on 1 July 2015. As is well known to you, since the establishment of the National Tax and Customs Office, a government office with law enforcement functions, in which nearly 5,500 professional staff work, and for the service of these professional members, the provisions of Hst. should be applied with derogations regulated by the NAV Act. In view of the new Hst., it was therefore necessary to update all previous rules referring to the old Hst. in the NAV Act. As has been said, and as Mr Bellozó pointed out, the bill received five individual motions. One of these would leave out the provision of the bill which would not allow a new investigation to be carried out in the case of finance officers who are considered unfit for health, physical and psychological reasons. The government did not support this proposal because the relevant ministerial regulation provides for the possibility of re-examination in the event of physical inadequacy anyway. The government also did not support the proposal to legislate all subjects for which the new HST should instead of the employment regulations for financial officers. It provides for a ministerial decree to be drawn up. [[15.10]] With regard to matters which do not need to be regulated at regulation level for government officials in order to ensure uniform rules on the staff of the NAV, there is also no justification for financial officers. One of the amendments to the bill would remove the provision that a member of the official staff of the NAV may be exempted only if there is no position to be offered or if the member of the staff does not accept it for reasonable reasons. The reasonable cause is considered too subjective by the proposers. However, the legislation under the bill is in line with the new HSt. We do not consider it justified to derogate from it. Nor can any amendment which proposes to remove provisions from the bill, such as a rule of conduct, confidentiality or proper exercise of law, which is necessary to ensure uniform regulation of the entire NAV staff. The opposition's proposal to maintain the current rules on the management of financial officers cannot be supported only because the motion proposes to amend only part of the relevant provisions and is therefore unsuitable for achieving the objective pursued. Here I would like to return to the proposal that Mr Bellozó also referred to. In particular, the full amendment to tightening the rules on conduct is the only amendment of substance that has been included in the bill. According to this, as opposed to the new Hst., the NAV's Finance Officers retain the current management regulation, which is Hst. Instead of a four-month management period per year in accordance with the first subparagraph, it shall, every three years for a period of six months, maximize the duration of the management without consent to any of the NAV's organs and premises. As regards the appreciation of workers, since this was also the case in the debate, I would remind everyone that the current budget law, similar to the previous laws, ensures that NAV workers receive additional benefits in addition to their normal salaries. This provision is also included in the 2016 budget bill, according to which HUF 6 billion HUF 250 million may be added if the revenue items specified on a quarterly basis are met. Therefore, the incentive and recognition system is in place under which NAV workers can receive additional benefits in addition to their normal salary in 2016. In addition, of course, the government is constantly reviewing the wages of the public sector as a whole. We all know that gross wage increases have been made in several areas of the public sector. We also see this in the 2016 budget proposal, and we are working to continue this process in line with the performance of the economy, while preserving the results of the sustainable management of public finances, and to have a chance and opportunity to increase gross wages in as many areas as possible. Returning to the present proposal, I must say that the bill serves to harmonise the provisions on the professional staff of the NAV with the new legal status law for law enforcement bodies. On this basis, I would ask the honourable Members to support the bill before you with their vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-16-123	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. The general debate on the draft law on the publication of Council Decision 2014/335/EU of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources is now taking place until closure. The submission is T/5138. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I will also give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-16-124	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to ensure that Hungary's obligation to harmonise legislation in the EU is met. By signing the Treaty of Accession on 16 April 2003, Hungary committed itself to participating in the financing of the EU budget as a member of the European Union. The types of contributions from Member States to the EU budget and the rules on their calculation and making available are set out in a Council Decision, which should be adopted every seven years in parallel with the establishment of each seven-year budget, in this case for the period 2014-20. The legal status of this Council Decision is also specific in the EU legal order, since every Member State must ratify it for its entry into force once adopted in the Council. In the case of Hungary, the adoption in accordance with constitutional requirements is achieved by legislation and the publication of the Council decision by law. The decision is expected to be ratified for all Member States by the end of 2015 and can enter into force in 2016, but should be applied with retroactive effect until 1 January 2014. Honourable Members, Allow me to say a few words about the revenue of the European Union budget, the so-called own resources. The revenues of the EU budget, i.e. its own resources, are traditional, traditional own resources and national contributions to the common budget. Traditional own resources derive from customs duties on non-Union products and from sugar levies paid under sugar quotas. They are collected by the Member States, but the majority of the amount collected is transferred to the EU budget. Member States shall keep a small part of the collected amount in their national budgets to cover the costs of collection. National contributions consist of both a VAT-based payment and a gross national income, i.e. GNI-based payment. First, it means that some of the VAT revenue should be transferred to the European Union, around 0.3 per cent, which is projected on a VAT base calculated on the basis of a detailed methodology. The other item, which is the largest source of funding for the EU budget, is gross national income, i.e. GNI-based payments. Each Member State pays around 0,7 per cent of its gross national income. Member States' contributions are based on the principle of solidarity and solvency, but it is possible to adjust the amount if it is too burdensome for a Member State. The rules adopted for the period 2014-20 did not bring any substantial innovation in the previously functioning own resource system. The only notable change is that in the framework of the single customs union, Member States may recover 20% of the customs duties collected by them and made available to the European Union or of the sugar levy contribution, instead of 25 per cent of the previous collection costs. The Council decision now enshrined in the law does not differ significantly from the previous one, and therefore no significant change in Hungary's payment obligations is expected. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungary draws significant amounts from the budget of the European Union and that the resources from the EU budget are well above the amount of our contribution to the EU budget. The amounts coming from the EU budget to Hungary exceeded our deposits by more than HUF 1600 billion in 2014. EU funds will continue to make a significant contribution to achieving economic development and employment policy objectives, but will also play an important role in the areas of health and education policy, the implementation of structural reforms and the achievement of territorial and rural development objectives. Dear Parliament, Hungary has exercised its interests during the negotiations on the EU budget for the period 2014-20. The content and authentic text of the decision that is now being announced are no longer subject to amendment at this stage, as is the case with the other Member States' ratifications. In order to ensure the sustainable financing of the EU budget and thus the support that Hungary can call for, it is important that we comply with our legal harmonisation obligation by adopting and publishing the bill. I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-16-125	It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I will ask the Fidesz Group if anyone wishes to make a speech as a keynote speaker. [[Mátyás Firtl reporting.]] I give the floor to Matthias Firtl, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. [[15.20]]
u2015-06-16-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/5138 in front of us. Proposal No.1, bill, as the Secretary of State has just said, Hungary is committed to participating in the financing of the budget of the European Union by joining the European Union. The types of payments by Member States to the Union budget and the rules for their calculation and fulfilment are laid down in the Council Decision, which will be re-established for each seven-year EU budget period. I would not detail these, since the Secretary of State has just explained how these payments are made and on what basis and where these payments come from. In any event, the Council decision on the financial framework adopted for the period 2014-2020 was published in the EU Official Journal on 7 July 2014 and each Member State is obliged to adopt it in accordance with its own constitutional requirements. Because of its specific legal status, the text of the Council Decision must be published in law, thus fulfilling our obligation to harmonise EU legislation, all the alternatives to fulfilling the legislative obligation, which is why Parliament is required to discuss and adopt this bill. Following the adoption of the bill, it will be possible for the other Member States to adopt the Council decision in accordance with its constitutional requirements, i.e. ratify it and enter into force, to start the effective application as from 1 January 2014. In view of the fact that Hungary has adopted in the European Council issues that concern the functioning of the own resources system as part of the agreement on the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020, it is not possible to amend the text of the Council Decision, as has already been said, at this stage. In the period 2014-2020, we take home the second most money from the Member States - not just to our little pride, but to say it here in Parliament - for every Hungarian person, almost HUF 712,000 from the EU source for seven years. The EU resource per capita in Hungary is now 50,000 HUF higher than in the previous period. As far as the total amount is concerned, we were the seventh among the Member States in the period 2007-2013, which is why it is very important to stress that this is now a big step forward, because Hungary has managed to reach the third most EU funds in the net position during the negotiations, with a magnitude of HUF 7301 billion for the period 2014-2020, so we are clearly net beneficiaries of the EU budget. The risk of non-acceptance of the draft law is that Hungary does not fulfil its obligations under the European Council without the publication of the law, which, in the end, could hinder the financing of the budget of the European Union and thus the availability of the funds that Hungary can use in 2014-2020. We can only draw the money that the Member States are paying and the payment requires ratification of the Council decision. Ladies and gentlemen, After all, Hungary's main development resources have come from the European Union in the past and in the next term, and I therefore urge my fellow Members to support the bill before us. I am doing this here on behalf of the KDNP faction, and the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the adoption of the bill, and I would once again ask my fellow Members to do this, as it is a pledge of our future development resources. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-127	I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-06-16-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The proposal before us is indeed a ratification, because it is necessary for us to be able to contribute to the legislative process during which we can begin to implement the next budget cycle. I do not list my own revenue, my own resources, so the EU's own resources, as the Secretary of State said, clearly shows what this is made up of. Here, of course, we see in this draft that there are many exceptions, there are more and more exceptions in this regard, because Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, Austria have a derogation from the legislation in respect of national net income, and we also see a rather serious correction in respect of the United Kingdom, as 66 percent of the amount between the payment and the reclaimed aid has to be reimbursed, otherwise at the expense of the other Member States. However, I think that obviously we cannot be completely isolated from the European environment around us, but yet I say that in this respect we must be able to see clearly in the case of Hungary and in the case of subsidies coming to Hungary, in the case of callable subsidies, and I am confident that during this period we will be able to use this available source of development for the advancement, development of Hungarians and for the development of Hungary in the next period. However, in the context of the European Union's own resources, one more fact has to be reported: from 2016 onwards, national parliaments will be invited to a rather high-level task force, where the many exceptions, which, although transparent but difficult to follow, make the development of the EU's own resources, will invite members of national parliaments and their delegations to step up democratic functioning and accountability, as well as the development of their own revenue. The working group will meet at least every six months, and from 2016 national parliaments will be invited, as I have already mentioned, to an interinstitutional conference where they can evaluate the work and results of the working group. We hope that we will be informed in Parliament about this kind of work and the progress made there, as well as about the further steps that will be taken, which will become a new regulation from 2020 onwards. Of course, we also support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-16-129	I now give the floor to Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-16-130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik cannot support the bill before us, because we see it not only as a motion for harmonisation, and on the other hand we would like to initiate the amendment of our Accession Contractor to our national interests, so it is clear from this basic position that we cannot give our vote in favour of the motion for a system of own resources before us. There are several aspects that support why we cannot support this proposal. One of the most important things is that the UK correction remains in the system of own resources, and this Hungarian budget, our 2016 budget, will be charged HUF 21 billion. It is worth looking into where this refund comes from, what the background is. This was fought out by Margaret Thatcher in 1984, it is a prisoner, and each Member State has to ensure the appropriate contributions every year. At the time, the British justified this with the situation in their agriculture, but since then there have been very significant changes, both in terms of the fact that the income per capita in the United Kingdom has increased significantly over the decades, and also in terms of the rate of agricultural subsidies, from a high level at that time to below 50 per cent, and now only around 40 per cent in the EU budget. It was not a coincidence that at the Berlin Summit in March 2000, Austria, Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden had achieved that they had been exempted from 75% of the refund, and this, of course, resulted in additional burdens being borne by other Member States, including our country. First, in the previous budget cycle, i.e. in the period 2007-2013, there was a substantial change in the amount of the refund, which is due to which I have already pointed out that the weight of the common agricultural policy has been steadily decreasing since the 1980s, thus achieving the current level of 40%, and secondly, the CAP reforms of the 1990s have increased the direct support of the product groups - beef, sheep and cereals - in which the United Kingdom had relatively good positions, and I also pointed out that the economic situation of Great Britain was completely different from that of the mid-1980s. [[15.30]] It is no coincidence that, in previous negotiations, when such long negotiations were held before the seven-year budgets were drawn up, there was a regular reduction and even the possibility of termination from a large part of the Member States. Of course, an important addition is that, if we look at this from the British perspective, their attitude has always been to support Eastern enlargement, since their approach has always focused on the enlargement of integration with the European Union, rather than deepening integration, it is not by chance that the possibility of a referendum - with which Jobbik, for its part, can fully agree, and we are initiating it in Hungary - came up. What happened was that after the new Member States joined in 2004 and then in 2007, the amount of the refund also increased, and the Member States which were far below the level of Great Britain, including Hungary, had to pay and have to rebate each year. Britain then saw that it had to give in to this issue, and during the six months of the British Presidency, which was in the second half of 2005, a decision was made at the December Europe Summit to sacrifice one fifth of it. This is what I was referring to when I indicated that this particular prisoner was already lower for the previous period 2007-13. This has indeed come up as a permanent issue during the multiannual financial framework negotiations, and this has been the case for the current 2014-2020 programming period. It is worth noting from these seven years that, for the first time since the introduction of medium-term financial planning, the amount available has been reduced and the allocation of actual payments has for the first time been lower than 1 percent of GNI at EU level. In the course of the negotiations, the British delegation finally succeeded in achieving both of its objectives, which were the most important to them. One was a reduction in budget expenditure, which they considered extremely important as a net contributor. The second was to protect the refund, and this was also the case, since it is important to note that it cannot really be abolished without their consent. But I think that if we stand on the EU stage in the right way for our national interests in this matter, then we could achieve results. But this is not only the reason why we cannot support this motion, but, overall, we also see the situation differently with regard to the EU budget, such as Mátyás Firtl, lead speaker at KDNP, who welcomed this in a euphoric mood. Here, however, it is important to see that cohesion resources have fallen significantly. The budget itself has been reduced by around 4.5 per cent in terms of the total, with cohesion resources falling by 8.4 per cent, which further increases the difference between the central and peripheral countries, maintaining status quo and preserving the dominant position of older Member States. The situation is even worse with regard to Hungary, as cohesion funds decreased by 20 percent in 2014-20 compared to the 2007-2013 period. Here, in the spirit of fairness, it should be noted that, indeed, during the negotiations, the outcome was better than the data previously produced, as the possibility of a worse situation has been raised, but I think that, given that such a significant decline in cohesion resources has taken place, the success propaganda that has been heard from the government side is certainly false. In the context of the system of own resources, criticisms are also raised on the EU stage, as it is a complex, opaque system, which is reinforced by exceptions and refunds further enhances its lack of transparency. It is no coincidence that last year a committee was set up, the first task of which was to develop reform, and they themselves said that the system of own resources is not fair and that there is not an effective system of own resources, so there is a need for a change. Overall, what I would like to underline once again is that our basic position on our relationship with the European Union is clear. We are saying that the Treaties and the Treaty of Accession, which are legally part of them, should be substantially amended. To this end, we have also initiated a debate day. Unfortunately, it appears that only the XXI. The parties of the 20th century present their support, as the LMP signed this initiative, and the Socialists were clearly excluded from it, even though I believe that they could also have something to say about changing our membership of the EU in the context of our national interests. We are still waiting for feedback from the government and Fidesz-KDNP. I hope that they will finally support this initiative, because we have marked a number of points in the debate day initiative that we have also heard statements from the government on the side, but unfortunately they have always remained at the level of words. I would also like to point out that, of course, there are cases in which we have the same position as Great Britain, where appropriate, but there are issues such as the case of the reimbursement mentioned, where we should confront them. What is it that we see the situation in the same way? For example, the issue of red-sheet proceedings, which would provide additional opportunities for national parliaments in the Member States and would constitute a right of veto in matters that violate our sovereignty. We are also working on the EU scene so that this can be introduced. At the recent COSAC meeting in Riga, I also raised my voice to this end, supporting the British position. But, of course, there are cases in which we need to find other partners, even at Central European level, acting together with the Croatians, the Poles. Therefore, we should examine on a case-by-case basis how we can enforce our interests, since we must also say that the two sides, Fidesz and MSZP, are subject to the provisions of Article XX. The parties of the 20th century have joint responsibility for joining the Community on 1 May 2004. The amount of the refund is HUF 21 billion, as indicated. This amount, of course, if we look at it as an amount of the entire budget, we can say that it is not a huge amount. However, I would like to refer here to yesterday's health debate, whether in health care or in education we could find the right place for this money. I also think it is an exaggeration, as the Secretary of State said, that we have clearly come out of the decade that we have left behind since our accession, because it is worth considering the indirect effects and thus drawing up a comprehensive balance sheet. And I would not only go back to 1 May 2004 ice, but I would also look at the previous years in this respect, because there was a precedent for our accession to the EU. Experts who are completely independent of us say at EU level that net contributors have benefited significantly from the entry of the new Member States, in such a way that related companies and companies have made significant profits out of each of the new Member States, and this was the case in the case of Hungary in particular. With regard to the use of EU funds, it is also important to underline that there is no positive experience here either, as in many cases these funds have gone to prestige investments instead of spending them for job-creating, employment-enhancing and economic recovery purposes. For the current period 2014-2020, we have heard the promise from a government side that we will use 60% of the available resources for economic development. We are very confident that this will be the case, and we will follow this process, because it would be a priority to put Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in a position to take advantage of the opportunities, because we are seriously lagging behind the EU average in this respect. It is enough to point out that, for example, in terms of research and development, recognising that there has been some movement in recent years, but we are still far behind the EU average, and this is particularly true for small and medium-sized enterprises, although professional studies show that innovative R &amp; D companies can increase their workforce to a greater extent. This is particularly true of small and medium-sized economies. So we should move in this direction. We can only hope that, in the period ahead, this will indeed be the case when we use EU funds. [[15.40]] We would therefore expect the Government to take substantial action in the cases that I have mentioned. At the level of words, we have heard from you many times that you have stood up for Hungarian interests, but when it came to that, you were characterised by a different attitude. I would like to refer here to the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán expressed his support for the British position here at the Parliament on the budgetary pact, and then, when he had to take a position at the European Council a month later, he thought otherwise, Prime Minister, and Hungary also gave its support to this provision which further undermines our national self-determination. So we are asking and encouraging the Government to really act on the appropriate scenes with our national interests in mind, and I would like to ask my current, weakly present, pro-government fellow Members to support our debate on the amendment of the Treaties and the Treaty of Accession and the amendment of our membership of the European Union in the context of our national interests, since it would be possible to express their views on this occasion. We believe that it would be important not only here in Parliament, but also in society to have a serious debate on this and, of course, to make substantial changes in a referendum. I therefore ask you to reconsider your position so far and I look forward to your decisive and concrete action. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-131	We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and there is now room for further speeches. Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán has applied. You have the floor.
u2015-06-16-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As the lead speaker of Fidesz, I could not comment because I should have applied earlier, and I probably did the careless thing, Mr President asked me that I could have applied now, but that is not the point of the matter. I am pleased now that I have asked for a word, and so, here at the end of the main speaker's round, because in the lead speaker's speech I would have said virtually very similar things, as my fellow Members have said, that it is actually only a technical law, that we should include this resolution of 26 May 2014 among the Hungarian laws, and I would have said that this should be done in a specific way by each Member State, as a result of the legislation. Well, I have emphasised this once again because my fellow Member, Tibor Bana, has outlined, in a very united and long speech, the past, present and future of the European Union and, to be exact, the relationship of Jobbik to the European Union at this moment. I mean, if all the fellow Members who have been here in the previous years... - they remember exactly where Jobbik was absolutely against the European Union, the other day President Gábor Vona was completely beside the Union, with a full chest width. The opinion that we have just heard from Jobbik is quite consistent with the ideas that both the Prime Minister and the Fidesz and the KDNP factions have been on the agenda for a long time, so that if the time is right, then the European Union system as a whole would be worth considering, the renewal of the European Union, and we will perhaps slowly get to the point where it will be on the agenda. However, it is necessary to see that the kind of attitude that Jobbik is saying that it does not support and votes against this law, if I value it well, is more of a sign, but that if we take seriously the content behind our votes, the weight of our votes, this would mean that Hungary would not have access to subsidies in the next period 2014-20, because if we do not now include this law, then the subsidies will also be cancelled. I doubt that this is the purpose of Jobbik, by the way, but, after all, if they vote 'no' or do not vote for this article, which, once again, is a technical thing, then practically this message is sent to the electorate and, if you will, to Europe. It also applies a little to the debate day that, with the debate day initiative, frankly, I do not know what the position of Fidesz on this issue will be, and I can state my own position on this. I think that it is worth holding a debate day if there is a situation in the European Union where the arguments, arguments and arguments expressed here, the position that is being crystallized here, can be brought forward at all and negotiated intelligently in the European Union. My personal opinion is that we're not here yet. Undoubtedly, the United Kingdom has launched such an action, and at present its support is not so great. In fact, Hungary can join many things, but it is not advisable to overestimate ourselves in such a way that, on our initiative, the European Union as a whole and the whole distribution system of the European Union can suddenly be changed. My fellow Member Bana also said that at the level of words, the government stood up for Hungarian interests. I believe that what has been said several times here in numbers, and you, my fellow Member, have finally acknowledged that the negotiations of the Hungarian government, the Hungarian negotiating delegation, have resulted in a significantly better situation than the original starting position. And we also agree that, unfortunately, cohesion funds have decreased, but not only in Hungary, they have decreased or not in Hungary, they have basically decreased throughout the EU. Whether this is correct or not, a separate debate can be opened about it. Obviously it is not right, and it is indeed appropriate to renegotiate the whole system for this reason, but then it is worth any more serious, deeper debate about it - obviously not professional debates and workshops, because it is possible to hold a debate here, even in Parliament, if there is any reality at all, that it can really be addressed - not here, but in the European Union - and something can be achieved. Hungary has achieved particularly good negotiating tactics, particularly good results in terms of universally decreasing benefits. Well, after all, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this article. I would ask the right-hand fellow Members that it is precisely in order not to send the wrong message that you do not support it, or would resign if they could - quote - to support them in order not to press the button, but to press the yes in this technical bill. This will not mean that the whole system of the European Union is being adopted as it is, and it will not mean that it does not feel that the European Union's institutional system must be reformed, because we do not think so. The Fidesz faction will support the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-16-133	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-06-16-134	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I have to respond to a sentence or two Zsolt Csenger-Zalán said. First of all, you categorically say that Jobbik was constantly against the Union, that is not true. [[15.50]] The fact that you say that Gábor Vona stood up for the Union in full and full width a few days ago is not true. We've said it several times, but it doesn't look like it's enough, so we'll say it again if we have to, or even a hundred times. I know that you do not understand, but this is also simply a communication trick that you use many times, which is cooked in your communications witches' kitchen, so that even if Jobbik tells you his meaningful relationship with the European Union, they pretend they don't understand. This formula is very simple. We would like to break off with what has marked the Hungarian political elite over the last 25 years. The Hungarian political elite was characterized by sentences of which you have just said one here. He said that he'd overvalue us. There's no such thing as overestimating ourselves. This Parliament, which must work for Hungary, must not overestimate itself, but seize every opportunity to represent national interests. This has not always been the case in the last 20 to 25 years. Over the last 25 years, Parliament and the political elite have been slavish towards the West. That is why they were able to go into regulations and EU directives that did not work for the country. We say that after ten years, after ten years of experience, we should think about how much positive and negative the existence of Hungary in the European Union has brought. Let us try to discuss the negatives that we do not like, which are not in the interests of Hungary, to negotiate, to amend our Accession Treaty, in which we know. That's what the English are saying now, by the way. When we first said this in 2010, you said we couldn't do that, we were talking about unimaginable things. Now, when the English say it's the right thing to do, you say it's possible, but let's not overestimate ourselves. The same has also happened on the issue of public debt. When we first brought up the need to negotiate, to renegotiate, to see how we could loosen up a little on that squeeze so that we were not so squeezed into certain financial frameworks, we were always told that this could not be discussed, that there was no way to renegotiate the sovereign debt. Then it happened since 2010, because, in fact, the Poles were able to negotiate this at the time of the so-called regime change, when they were with us at the time, only we did not dare to negotiate it, because we did not overestimate ourselves, and Poland had received a rather large debt relief at the time. The same thing happened when we said this in 2010, this cannot be discussed, and interestingly, the Greeks are constantly discussing it, and this is what the news keeps telling the Greeks what opportunities they can give because Greece is in the position it is in. So once again, we are trying to appreciate our relationship with the European Union in a very normal and realistic way, and we have never said it, and we are not going to say that the European Union should be broken up anyway. Because there have already been sentences that we want to leave Europe. I beg you, we live in the heart of Europe! The European Union does not, by the way, mean Europe. Even now, my fellow Member is shaking his head, it seems to him that the European Union is Europe and not to me. To me, Europe is not the European Union, but the continent that Hungary has often defended in its history. We live in the heart of Europe, we are Europeans, and we will also belong to Europe, if there is a European Union, if there is no European Union; if there is a European Union like this, or if there is another European Union. We want it to be another European Union. We want a Europe of so-called nations to be realised, and that is what the British are thinking about now, where the states that are part of this alliance are the nation states, preserving their own independence, preserving their national identity, which is very important, and I hope that it is important for you, too, to have a Hungarian identity and to work together on mutually beneficial treaties. That'd be good. We do not want a united European Union to be built like the United States of America to survive, and we do not want it to operate in this system, where we feel that Hungary is fully a second-rate member of the European Union, with much less opportunities and much less attention to us than it does to other states. We believe that it is important for us that Hungary is able to achieve the best possible positions, and that the Treaty of Accession or even the Lisbon Treaty, which you have been so kind and signed without reading, is almost inadequate for us. That's what we need to look at. I told you the other day that when we are talking about how much we are paying the European Union and how much we are getting from the European Union, and that this is good or not good for us, this is not the only thing we should be looking at. It is not just about how much improvement we can make of what we get. It is not just a question of whether Hungary could make improvements without these EU funds. It should also be examined if, building on a completely different economic policy, we were to have a strong agriculture once again, if we were to rebuild our manufacturing industry, which has been destroyed here in the last 25 years, thanks to the European Union as well, and to which we are to place the payment that we have to make to the European Union, then how much money we would have left for improvements. We've never dealt with anything like that. We say that we need to look at our economy in a realistic way, with Hungary's interests in mind at all times towards the European Union. And we weren't talking about quitting. I will also tell you again, because they are always trying to interpret this in a different way, as we say, if the Jobbik Movement for Hungary can govern this country in 2018 [[Sándor Hadházy intervenes.]] We don't want to decide... We will see, Mr Hadházy, in 2018, we will test and see who will govern this country. But if we are to govern this country, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary does not wish to decide whether to stay in or to leave the European Union. We will start negotiations on the Accession Treaty, where we will try to fight for better positions. If this doesn't work and we can't change it, then we need to honestly and openly expose the situation that's there and let people decide. Think of the Hungarian voters, consider them so grown up that from the experience of the last ten years, from the information we can provide them, they will be able to decide through a referendum whether they want to remain a member of the European Union or not. But this is the final case. This is the very last condition according to Jobbik's script. So once again, we do not want to decide whether Hungary should be a member of the European Union, or not a member of the European Union, and we want to change the Treaty of Accession, and if this does not work, then let Hungarian citizens decide. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] And one last sentence is that my fellow Member Tibor Bana said that Fidesz is indeed a very combatant at the level of words, but not so much in action. That's true. With a fight for freedom of art, with which we keep saying for a week or two what is in Hungary's interest, and then we don't give a damn about it, and then the state comes, and the next stage is that we didn't really think that Viktor Orbán would go to Brussels, come back and talk about something completely different. So that's the level of words. Let us try to change this whole situation, not at the level of words, but at the level of action, and try to create a situation both economically and politically and in all areas that has only one thing in mind: the interests of Hungary and the interests of the people living in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll continue the meeting for two minutes. First I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Listening to the beginning of the speech by my fellow Member, Mr Csenger-Zalán, I thought that he clearly supported our debate day initiative, because he formulated his thoughts in this direction, and then at the end he indicated that he did not consider this to be relevant for some reason, so they will consider this possibility. This is where it appears that, for active policy purposes, when it is in your interest, they raise their views on the maladministration of our self-determination, but then, when it comes to it, I referred to this in the context of the fiscal pact, they do not dare to take the necessary steps. [[16.00]] Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said at a conference with the heads of government of the Visegrád Four that it was understandable at the beginning that we did not want to take the lead in our national interests, but now that we have been members of the Community for a decade, it is possible to find the right partners to stand up for Hungary's interests on specific issues and, of course, in these matters, we always need to see which partners we can act effectively. It is also important to see that this is not the European Union that the Hungarian voters said yes to in 2003 because the Lisbon Treaty has given the European Union a much more centralised direction. That is why we believe that it is important to have a meaningful debate - of course this can only take place in the autumn - on the possibilities of changing our relationship with the European Union in the context of our national interests. The issues raised by the British have created a new situation in Europe, and changes could be made either to the role of national parliaments, to the issue of immigration, to indigenous minorities, to our separated brothers or to the protection of agricultural land. Here's your chance, you should take it. To do so, we really need to be able to have a comprehensive and professional debate on these issues. I trust that you will also consider your position. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-137	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán is next. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-138	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My colleague Tibor Bana mentioned it here, first of all said that this is the position of Fidesz. I stressed that I had said my own position on the debate day, and that it had indeed become so by the end of the speech. And why am I saying all this? I think so because it's something to talk about. We should speak in the European Union, and I may not have made this clear enough, but in order to talk about it, we need allies. Those alliances must be concluded first, we must find out when there is a moment when we can really do something about this in substance and not only at the level of words, but also in a way that we can actually achieve something in the Union. I am signaling to my fellow Member György Szilágyi because it has appeared several times that since the English say so, Fidesz has been connected, for example, to the Europe of Nations or to the reform of the EU. I would like to remind my fellow Members that, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, and earlier as party president, and Fidesz and KDNP talked about a Europe of nations all along. We were also talking about a Europe of nations when you, my fellow Members, Jobbik, were still against Europe. Here too, my fellow Member Szilágyi said either that we are constantly accusing you or that I would have said that you are constantly against the European Union. No, I was just saying that you're against it, you're against it, you're beside it, we're going to reform it a little bit. It is right that the position is changing because it is ageing, but I think that in some way they should now decide in the same direction. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-139	Thank you very much. I can only speak to Congressman Tibor Bana if you press the button in a proper speech, because then I have the opportunity, but not for two minutes, because in a two-minute circle, there can only be one faction. A proper speech will be followed by Congressman Tibor Bana.
u2015-06-16-140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to point out to my colleague Zsolt Csenger-Zalán that it would be good to clarify certain concepts. We have never been against Europe, and we certainly do not mix Europe with the European Union. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: Flag Burning!]] So let's not use these terms as synonyms. I find it regrettable that, on the government side, Europe and the European Union often seem to be covering the same thing. The problem we have is that this community has long since represented what the continent has previously meant in terms of fundamental values, and it does not mean the value community that is very important to us Jobbiks as well. Our main problem is that the Lisbon Treaty and previous Treaty amendments have already shown this process, but this is what has really confirmed that the EU has gone to the United States. On the other hand, we say that the Europe of nations based on the preservation of the sovereignty of the Member States is the concept that we represent. Congressman, you have the same position. [[János Pócs: Only we don't burn flags.]] On the other hand, this is not what we see when we see them on the European Union stage. Yes, it is indicated here that Jobbik, if any, has made a strong point of view. Yes, because when it came to saying that Hungary was losing cohesion money, we thought that, in the situation where you were organising the peace process, it was important to express our view that we could not agree that it wanted to put us under pressure in Brussels. But our position has always been clear: we say that the Treaties and the Treaty of Accession, which are legally part of them, should be amended, because the issue of agricultural land has, astoundingly, been included in the chapter on the free movement of capital in the Treaty of Accession, and indeed in this section XX. The parties of the century, Fidesz and the MSZP share a shared responsibility. But now that Britain's action has taken place, I think that there has been a situation in which we could actually take action for the purpose of the amendment, and that should be done on the EU stage. I can give you countless examples that this is not the case for you. I would like to point out, for example, that, in the context of the EU-US Free Trade Agreement, their MEPs are clearly supportive of this issue, and, by the way, when there was a debate here in Parliament on this issue, in most cases we heard from a pro-government side that not only negotiations should be accepted, but also, at the end of it, that this otherwise extremely economically ineffective agreement should be supported. So here we can see an enormous difference between words and actions. And that, at any time, you would have made a clear belief in the concept of a Europe of nations, which is clearly not to be taken seriously on the issues mentioned above, so that is not the case. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr György Szilágyi is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-142	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to move on to the same line of thought. I am very pleased to hear you and your fellow Members nodding here that you have voted for a Europe of nations all the time, but I do not know how the signing of the Lisbon Treaty fits into the concept of a Europe of nations at that time. Then how does it fit in with the support of the EU-US Free Trade Treaty mentioned by my fellow Member? If you voted for a Europe of nations a long time ago and talked about it, I don't know how we didn't see it. Perhaps because they did not vote in favour of what they did, and they did not argue in favour of what they did. But they say so, so it is good, you know, Congressman, if during a campaign like this, when there are elections in Hungary - which has already been discussed here, what will happen in 2018 - then a party takes the trouble to put a program on the table, which you have not really done in recent times, but if the programme of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary... [[Happy Stephen intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Give me a two-minute push, Congressman, István Happy, I'd love to hear it all the time, feel free to give me a two-minute push. So the Jobbik for Hungary Movement, if you take out the 2009 European Union Election Programme, our 2010 parliamentary and 2014 parliamentary electoral programmes, all three programmes find the same thing: the concept of Europe of nations and what we are saying now, what you are constantly trying to make appear in a different way, which means our relationship with the European Union. And you can't find anything like this, because you haven't put down any programmes, you're talking about a Europe of nations on the basis of half-phrases, while, as I said, the Lisbon Treaty could be signed with a calm heart. How, then, did this fit into the concept that you now claim you have always represented? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] For a two-minute speech, Mr Lajos Kósa applied. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-144	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Listening to the debate of the fellow Members, I would just like to note one thing. Whether a nation's Europe is thinking in a concept or in some other Europe, one thing is certain: in no Europe is the one who burns the symbol of the European Union, the flag of the European Union, publicly. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] [[16.10]] Now, Jobbik, my fellow Members, has done this, not just anyone, one of Jobbik's faces, leading politicians. After that, those who publicly burn an EU flag clearly do not think in any Europe. This is symbolically the meaning of it, meaning it in its message, and it cannot be misunderstood. No one got the wrong idea. Therefore, if we take seriously what my former fellow Members have said here, for example, that we are looking at what is done, not what is written, the paper can really carry everything. If we look at the actions, Jobbik is burning the EU flag consistently, and it speaks for itself about what people think about Europe. You can argue with each other, you can disagree with each other, a lot of things; but burning a flag is a brutal expression of opinion that will tell you more clearly who's thinking. That is why we say that Jobbik is brutally, unmistakably anti-European, anti-EU, and until President Novak apologizes to the general public for the otherwise very brutal and otherwise not particularly elevated, I would say: for the primitive act that he has done publicly, whatever you fellow Members are saying is really right, the actions are speaking. You burned a flag in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will be followed by Congressman Tibor Bana, and then I can speak for two minutes.
u2015-06-16-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I would also like to make it clear once again to my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, who has just arrived here, so he probably did not even hear the previous speech that Europe and the European Union are not the same at all. So this current union, which is moving towards the European United States, is far from being identified by the European values that were very important to Jobbik, since we were founded. How could it be the same when, for example, the EU is completely insensitive to the issue of indigenous minorities, our separated brothers and sisters are particularly affected. However, when, say, we get information about the accession process of a given country, we can see that the issues concerning the various sexual minorities are present there for a long time, on one and a half and two pages, for example, in the case of Serbia, the rights of the LGBTQ community have been written for so long, and that the issue of national minorities such as the Hungarians there and the Hungarians in the south was settled with a few sentences, as if everything were okay. And the fact that this particular flag burning was done on Jobbik's part at the time, yes, in a particular situation, in my previous speech, I pointed out that it was a state where a peace process from the government side was organised because the European Union had brutally intervened in our internal affairs, and we thought that we should express our position that we do not want to give in to this pressure. But let's just say that it was not about burning the flag of a country in this case; we condemn this far from our side, no matter what country's flag is burned from someone's side, as a Christian national radical party is not even a question for us. It was a symbol of a community, and in this way we used to try to express our strong opposition to the steps towards the United States of Europe. I continue to ask our pro-government colleagues, Lajos Kósa, to support our debate day initiative on the possibilities of changing our relationship with the European Union along our national interests, because there are countless cases on which we have heard promises from you, but then it ends that no substantive steps have been taken. And we are talking about this, yes, we should increase the role of the parliaments in the Member States, for example, the red card procedure, the issue of immigration is being raised, but when Jobbik raises the issue of the return of the border guard, they have no answer. I have already mentioned the issue of indigenous minorities; and one of the most serious issues is the protection of agricultural land, since the land law adopted last year does not provide a substantive protection for our national treasure. But I have mentioned only a few examples, and it could be extended, and, by the way, the debate day would also give you the opportunity to add additional additives to this, because we do not think that we have the Philosopher's Stone. Obviously, there may be cases in which we can also act for our national interests, and we really need to find our partners. So we do not claim that we should not - and I have referred to this in my previous speeches - find the allies with whom we could do this together, and, of course, in each case, the ally on these matters could be different. But I am sure that if such an attitude were to characterize us on the European Union stage, we could achieve serious, meaningful results, as we have seen countless examples, not only from older Member States, but I could mention, say, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, where, unfortunately, Beneš Decrees can still be in place today, which also express the collective guilt of Hungarians in the Highlands and also Germans. So they were able to achieve this in their own interests to our detriment, yes, we would have the opportunity to do so, but if we stand back and only talk to the Hungarian public about these important issues, then of course we will not show any meaningful results. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-06-16-148	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased with Lajos Kósa's speech, although he has not been here all this time in the debate, and there may already be something that we are repeating because he is now the Vice President of Fidesz, and his speech is very well based on what is the biggest difference between Fidesz and Jobbik's vision of Europe. The fact that Lajos Kósa here stated that he believes that Europe is a European Union. He believes that the future of Europe can only be the European Union. And we say no. There is no equality between the European Union and Europe. It is not possible, my honourable fellow Member, to make a sign of equality between the European Union and Europe, because I have already said here that Europe existed before the European Union, and indeed Hungary has defended this Europe many times, and we have defended Europe many times in our history. I say that Europe can continue to exist in the future without the European Union, a Europe where, on the basis of mutual benefit cooperation, the nation states are mutually supportive and cooperative. And the only reason why there is no equality between the European Union and Europe is because think about it, my fellow Member, that when we defended Europe, there were European Member States that did not even exist at the time. There are nations who were not even on the map of Europe at the time - and now European Union Member States - when we were already protecting Europe. So the European Union and Europe are not one and the same. We say, and therefore there is no need to deny this flag burning, we regard this EU flag as a symbol of this European Union system, but I ask Mr Vice-President, if it is not such a problem that it is a symbol and does not symbolize that Hungary is, for example, a colony, then why is it not in the Hungarian Parliament? It's nice that she's not in there, by the way, but why isn't she in there? That's because you feel it. You too feel that Hungary's place in the European Union at the moment is not the most appropriate and not the best [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] The European Union wishes to keep Hungary in a colonial line with this Treaty of Accession and the Lisbon Treaty. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-149	Thank you very much. The next two-minute speaker is Mátyás Firtl.
u2015-06-16-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to you here, you actually want to have a debate day right now, when we are talking about Act T/5138. This is the law that we were talking about, and on the other hand, there was a debate day here. Ladies and gentlemen, When Tibor Bana tells me that I have made my speech as a lead speaker in a euphoric mood, it must be acknowledged - because he acknowledged my fellow Member with his following sentences - that we have been able to boast the best possible positions within the European Union through our negotiating delegation in obtaining support money. If we have achieved this, then I can say what you just said, my honourable fellow Member, is that action on the European scene. This action on the European stage was how we could find our national interests in the negotiations where we could achieve this position. Next is how we defend or not defend our national sovereignty in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, It is possible to argue, there is much to argue about, but the fact that so far in the European Parliament, in the European Council, no one else has defended Hungarian interests except Viktor Orbán, not only now, not for the first time, but I do not know in what right you say that we are not trying to defend our national interests, we are not trying to defend our national sovereignty, of course within the framework of the rules we belong to. We have entered the European Union! [[16.20]] Today's proposal also begins, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with our commitments, it is necessary to carry out the process of adopting this ratification procedure or a bill. I therefore ask with respect that this debate be held on this day of debate, and now, if you still have one, put your proposal on this bill. And I am still saying that we should support the adoption of this bill.
u2015-06-16-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr István Happy. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-152	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The truth is, honourable Members, it is difficult to argue with the facts. I understand that a lot of things have gone to oblivion with you, such as the political pile of jobs you've forgotten. They only have two politicians in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, with a pretty fat salary, making a lot more money than small town mayors. But that's not the problem. Otherwise, they forget a lot of things. Yesterday, for example, the facts were denied by your representative, who said that his school was built only and exclusively in a pro-government settlement. Interestingly, they forgot about Turkszentmiklós. The mayor will be informed that you do not acknowledge that there is a better administration in Turkszentmiklós. [[György Szilágyi: This is another topic!]] Yeah, it's another subject, I just wanted to draw attention to how you guys forget things in a day or two. But to keep to the facts: Jobbik's President stressed that Hungary should leave the European Union and initiate an extraordinary parliamentary meeting to discuss this. Gentlemen, that's what the president of Jobbik said. This is where we have to step out of the European Union, and that is your opinion. True, this was a little earlier, not in 2015 during the cute campaign, but in 2012, because in 2015 there was a cute campaign, but that was your position. I understand how your position has changed, but at least don't deny what you said before, and sometimes stand up for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. Both Mr Bana and Mr Szilágyi are allowed to speak for two minutes only in the next stage. It is now time for a proper speech, Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-154	Mr. President. Dear House, Of course, it is not true that I would confuse or identify Europe with the European Union. The more I do not do this, because the use of the word Europe is a multi-faceted concept, and when someone talks about Europe, it is always my impression that one does not want to define exactly what he wants to talk about, because so much is understood in Europe. The political, geographical and other aspects of the concept are unclear, and this means a sort of escape path for the speaker. I am, of course, talking about the European Union. I would like to continue to stress that any political, but I can safely say that even if one party comes to the public debate by burning the symbol of the other party and even doing so proudly, it actually says that I am not open to debate. Because, by the way, human contact has rules, written and unwritten, which, if I ignore, you know what's going on. I'm sure the right-handlers feel that if a conversation starts with one partner punching another in the face instead of saying hello, they don't think it's a call for a peaceful debate. But the courage of better colleagues to burn the flag that represents the European Union means that they believe that this is the welcome one. There's really nothing to talk about from here on out. Of course, it can be seen that the matter is, of course, much more complicated. The flag represents a lot of things, just as the European Union itself is an extremely complex phenomenon. Of course, there wasn't always a European Union, and after it had its beginning, we may also assume that it could end. But the European Union also means a lot to us. With a question like that, what did Novak have in mind for you? To reject the possibility that joint membership in the European Union will allow unhindered contacts with our own national brothers and sisters? This is what the European Union means. It means that I can go to Highlands, Croatia, Romania essentially without obstacles. Moreover, the free movement of capital made possible by the European Union, the free movement of labour and the protection of capital investment will also allow us to build economic relations with the countries around us, which, for example, will help the minority there. This is also the European Union, and much more. Of course, it is true that it also hurts us that the European Union also means that there is a European Union Member State that still holds in its current legislation the law that stigmatizes Hungarians as a collective criminal. That's what we're gonna do. But if we look at it as a whole, then we think that our membership in the European Union means that the overall benefits of the European Union are greater for Hungary and the Hungarian nation than the disadvantages. This does not mean that someone would think that the European Union has come to a beautiful new world. Some of our fellow politicians may be political in the European Union Parliament, who we regard as confused politicians, more like street thermal rollers - because they have started their careers there - as a factor to be taken seriously, but there are a great variety of European politics, the European Union, very complicated relations; there is no need to agree with it. In fact, what violates our interests must be dealt with on a regular basis. This is when the European Commission, Parliament and others condemn the country, bring infringement proceedings against it and a lot of other things. These are normal arguments, they need to be held. This does not mean that, at the first opportunity, we must deny our motivation that our European concept - I mean Fidesz and KDNP - is completely and radically different from that of the European Left, for example. For example, we believe that a number of parts of national sovereignty should not be passed on to the Commission or to Parliament. We are making proposals for this on the table. Of course, you can wave against the Union, burn flags, yell, bring in laptops, that we won't be colonials. It is as if it is possible to break out what the point of this is, because recalling the relations with the mother country of the countries that are truly colonial states does not remind us of the relationship that exists in the European Union at all. But it's a good slogan, but then it doesn't mean anything, because it doesn't make sense what it's all about, because we're definitely not a colony. But we are not a country that shuts up, and the Fidesz-KDNP government is certainly not characterised by the previous socialist government, which, before the Hungarian translation of the Lisbon Treaty, brought it to Parliament to vote. We asked how left-wing government representatives were informed [[Dr. László György Lukács: How do you find out?]] And we didn't vote for it, we said it wasn't the way to do it. So, as a whole, we continue to think that our concept is a Europe of nations; we believe that in a Europe of nations, countries that respect each other's national interests, protect and respect each other, and we do not think that some kind of superpower from Brussels is coming up. By the way, it should be noted that the European Union does not reminisce, from the budgetary side, in any way, of countries that are actually built up as a federal country in some federal system - look at it! - for example, because federal countries are characterised by at least 25 percent of total national income centralisation being put into federal budgets, compared to 1-2 percent of the European Union. The situation is strange, because if someone really looks at the figures and facts, they can easily conclude that if the European Union really works like the Federal Republic of Germany or Germany or the United States - and there are other countries in the world operating on such a federal basis, where the individual Member States have a wide range of autonomy - it is important to see that the larger part of income centralisation remains in place, but that the whole alliances achieve support for the underdeveloped areas, so that income differences do not increase to the extent that the federal system is fragmented. [[16.30]] In addition, Hungary would be the primary winner of this under current conditions of development. Look at the model of cooperation in the United States or Germany. So the joke is that when the right-wing Members are against it, they are not aware that, by the way, the real numbers and the real world have a different connection. However, I do not think that the European Union should operate in a federal system, because it represents a transformation of national sovereignty compared to central sovereignty, which, in our view, is not beneficial to Hungary. But there is no doubt that on a number of issues, and my fellow Member Firtl is right, cooperation also means the implementation of a series of practical issues. In this case, even on every issue, let us say, in the framework rules defining the characteristics of green vegetable production, this angle of inclination of cucumber is complicated, it is possible to always go back to its roots and start the Roman Treaty again, why the Union was created. After all, the European Union's advantage is that, for example, it seems to have removed the constant war threat of a continuous European confrontation between France and Germany, and therefore Europe has an unprecedented welfare era, and besides it has an unprecedented welfare era, but it does not always have to go back to this; or it can be, but it will never be done. I am sure that what my better fellow Members have just said - by the way, the TV is on in my office, so I can follow up on the parliamentary debate, because, in addition to the development of today's era, such fantastic devices are invented that they do not need to be physically present to keep track of what is happening in the world - but, by the way, their argument really points in the direction of conducting the party political debate now. What can be done every time, because it's not against house rules, but we're never gonna end up with them. I would just like to say one thing, but I would like to return to the basic idea that I liked very much, which Mr Szilágyi was kind enough to say that actions mattered. There's always something to talk about, what's important is what's done. But if we look at one or two of Jobbik's symbolic actions, then at least it's a surprise. For example, it is the fact that Jobbik does not succeed in emphasising Hungarian national affiliation, the importance of relations with the divided parts of the nation, and the rest, and yet, when voting in the Hungarian Parliament for the institution of dual citizenship, the President of Jobbik symbolically did not take part in the vote. Don't tell me that you were in the cafeteria, or you were more important than what, after the Trianon peace dictatorship, was one of the most important public and legal steps to reunite the nation. And Gábor Vona didn't take the trouble himself. He must have been busy. That's how it turned out. They just understand what actions mean in a case like this. That Ferenc Gyurcsány was not present, I understand that, but that Gábor Vona was not present, does mean that children, larifari, the act, is talking! Gábor Vona voted with his feet, he didn't bother to come here and press the yes button. He had something important to do. He didn't want the coffee at the cafeteria to get cold, he must have given a very important interview to the Kuruc.info. Sadness doesn't know why. But the fact is, it's a fact. I say that when we compare these facts in your own symbolism with that of Jobbik, I say that you are right, Mr Szilágyi, I liked this: the facts speak. Gábor Vona was not present in the vote on the most important case for Jobbik, one of the most important cases for the nation. In the company of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Obviously they weren't together, but Ferenc Gyurcsány wasn't here either. I understand Gyurcsány politically, and one day, the annales will tell us what Gábor Vona says, what he was doing at the time, which seemed more important than voting for dual citizenship. But Mr Szilágyi is right, the actions speak. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-155	Thank you very much. Mr György Szilágyi is next to take a proper speech. Repeat speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'm glad Lajos Kósa can watch TV, because then I guess he should have seen it on TV more often when it was said, for example, why Gábor Vona wasn't here. But you're right, you have to vote with your feet. I would like to ask you, in this great national union that you are now proclaiming, in this great, we are paying attention to our fellow countrymen living across the border,, and they are very important to us, then you will tell us how you voted with your feet when you left the Trianon Memorial Day together with the Fides. Mr. Kósa, how did you vote with your feet when you left Trianon Memorial Day? ! Well, let's talk about that. When you stood up here instead of standing up, you remembered Trianon, you left this room. That's how you talk. He says words have done! Yeah, you know what the words are? Once again, you proved the difference between actions and words. What did he say in his speech? That when the MSZP brought the Lisbon Treaty here, you stood up and asked them very hard: how do you imagine bringing the Lisbon Treaty to this House without a translation? ! And I'm guessing they were told very hard - then what did they do in action? He's been voted! Well, these actions and words. You prove exactly what we're saying. What is the difference between actions and words? The vote with the feet was a very good example, because you voted with your feet when you left, and actions and words were a very good example, because you voted in favour of the Lisbon Treaty. Sentences can also be quoted here to Mr. István, who is happy. Imagine, Mr Happy Member, if you could say the same after my speech today. I told you, too. What did I say? We should quit the European Union, ha! If, for example, the Treaty of Accession is renegotiated, what we are doing is not appropriate. You can take words and slip them, you can try to prove to you that there will be a place here in 2018. By the way, I'm helping you with this, absolutely, and I'm not even trying to tear apart the things you said here. Really! That's it. Then it is that advantages and disadvantages. Yeah, that's what we talked about. Because István Happy also said in his speech what Gábor Vona said at the time: let's organize a debate day. What's the point of a debate day? To talk about advantages and disadvantages. After all, Congressman Kósa says that he has just stated in his speech that he believes that the European Union has far more advantages than a disadvantage at the moment. I accept his opinion. That's what he thinks. I don't think so. So what I'm saying is, I think there's a lot more to it than an advantage. I'm not saying there's no advantage, I'm just saying there's a lot more drawbacks. This is supposed to be the topic of the debate day, which could be to stand up, to conflict with our arguments, why I think that there are more disadvantages for the Union than advantages. And you're gonna tell me why you think there's more to this than just a downside. And I know, and I can say - because L. Simon László is not here, you do not misunderstand - so I know that there was a confectionary in Vienna and everything else you've been talking about, so to speak, you have listed the slogans that are used campaignally, that there is no contact with Hungarians across the border, that borders and unification and so forth, but you also mentioned that these are interestingly the advantages and disadvantages again. Indeed, there is an advantage, however, that it is easier to travel; this is perhaps one of the greatest benefits of the European Union, that it is easier to travel, say, within Europe. But then the fact that the Beneš Decrees, which you mentioned, are still in place; the fact that our fellow foreigners, where appropriate, are able to assert how much they are prohibited by certain EU Member States; what has happened, let us say, on the issue of autonomy - I do not think that I should continue to explain these things, but this is what we should discuss: the issue of advantages and disadvantages. And indeed, we have also said that I consider it a disadvantage - although I'm sure you watched it on TV, so I don't want to repeat myself, but I tell you - I find it a disadvantage to destroy our agriculture, I find it a disadvantage to destroy our manufacturing industry, and I find it a disadvantage to lose our markets. And if we could rebuild these and add to it the money that we are paying to the European Union, then we could come out with a lump sum of how much money we have left for development and everything else. Because in the current system we live almost as we do, and you also thought that this was not a good condition, just as there have been certain social groups in Hungary in the past, that we have been sitting almost, and that the European Union is an aid, we are waiting for what kind of support or development we can make with EU funds and the like. The only thing we don't realize is that it might be a very nice square. I don't have to tell you, as mayor, how beautiful it is to build a square or a fountain. [[16.40]] I do not want to attack you, which is why I am saying playgrounds, because we know that there have been problems and problems around the European Union's fidesz playgrounds. It's also nice, but I'm not sure this country needs it with development money right now. You may need economic recovery programmes that will enable Hungary's economy to catch up. He also told me that he had never seen me - how did he say it? - a welfare system has been built in Europe. Just don't tell people about this in Hungary, because they don't feel it! You know, they may feel this in Germany and France, but if in Hungary, when we have been members of the European Union for ten years, they go out and tell people to be happy because there is an unprecedented welfare system here, they may laugh at or not laugh at themselves, but weep because they know exactly how they live, they know exactly how these European Union citizens - because they are supposedly citizens of the same rights as the Germans, the French or the English - are making the same amount of work, say, the Germans; what is the difference between the German and the Hungarian standard of living; what they can buy at the same prices in Hungary when they enter the store and what they can buy in Germany, say, in the case of payment. Well, these are the big differences I'm saying are huge disadvantages. So really, indeed - I apologize - this is not a debate day, you are right, but we would very much like to have a debate day in the European Union, sit down, let Fidesz-KDNP take part in it as much as possible and everyone who feels this issue is important and let us discuss it. We would also like to see a common position on this issue, on our relationship with the European Union, where there are no differences, and where it would be completely irrelevant, where appropriate, who governs the country. The Parliament on these issues - to protect the interests of Hungary, to protect the productive land, to build agriculture, to build up the processing company, and in all the provisions and measures that will benefit the country and benefit the Hungarian people - would agree unanimously and we would try to go in this direction together; that could be the goal. Unfortunately, I'm a little skeptical about it because of words and actions, but we hope this world will come. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been leading this debate for 42 minutes, I am taking part in a political debate here, and I am not hearing a word about the system of the European Union's own resources, the publication of the Euratom Council decision. I would like to inform you that Parliamentary Act 46. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 gives the President the authority to withdraw the floor if the subject is not discussed. I'm telling you, I'm gonna live with it. This is how I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-158	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I understood the signal, but I must respond briefly to what has been said here, as statements can be quoted, my happy fellow Member; Viktor Orbán said in 1999 that there is life outside the European Union. [[Applause for Your Ancestors: That's right!\]] I think everything must be interpreted in the right way and in the right way, and Jobbik's programme has always been consistent. We need to look at our programmes for elections to the European Parliament and for parliamentary elections, in which the Treaty of Accession has always been amended in an appropriate manner, in accordance with our national interests. And if my fellow Member Kósa is talking about the difference between words and actions, then I would also like to refer to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán saying earlier that, without the Szekler autonomy, Romania's accession to the EU will not be supported, and when it came to this, Fidesz and KDNP gave their consent. [[The First of Novak: Shame!]] , in the same way as the Lisbon Treaty was voted on in December 2007...
u2015-06-16-159	Congressman! The first half of the two minutes passed, and he wasn't talking about the subject.
u2015-06-16-160	...and then three or four days later, the Parliament supported this, Fidesz and KDNP. But I would also like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Firtl, who, in connection with the system of own resources, said that he does not understand our basic position here, even though I have made it clear what are the main reasons why we cannot support this motion. I also acknowledge that the negotiating delegation has been able to achieve results, as it has been mentioned earlier that the cohesion resources at our disposal are decreasing even more, and we have always been characterised by a constructive attitude, which I said in the speaker's speech. Nevertheless, a 20 percent decline is a great achievement, I think it is quite deceptive. The other important point, which is why we cannot contribute to this, is the issue of the UK correction, which will cost us HUF 21 billion next year's budget. A number of countries have raised the possibility of eliminating this, and we should also do so on the EU stage, so that words and actions are really in line. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-161	Thank you very much. Mr Zoltán Lukács will also have a two-minute speech.
u2015-06-16-162	Thank you very much. It is very enjoyable to listen to those comments about who can be eurosceptical without being so very, very different. The problem is that this agenda is nothing more than the publication of Council Decision 2014/335/EU Euratom on the system of the EU's own resources, the publication of a decision; it is not even the decision or the content of the decision, but whether this Parliament can publish the already adopted European Union Council decision. And then I won't agree whether the Lisbon Treaty was translated, because whoever knows how the European Union works doesn't say that there isn't a Treaty translated, because each document appears in every language of the European Union at the first moment, so it doesn't have to be translated, because it's translated; we'll leave it. I am not going to agree whether a debate day on the European Union is really a solution to the problems of the European Union when we are being squeezed into 25 and 28 and 32 minutes. We really do not agree to such a problem because we find it ridiculous to have 25 minutes to say otherwise what is the opinion of such a tremendously extensive problem and what is the solution. Let's talk about it, obviously we have to talk about it, but one debate day is absolutely not the answer: everyone would talk next to each other again, the 25 minutes on the board would be over, and we wouldn't be any further. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the announcement of this resolution, which means that it supports this resolution. Nor does it mean that it accepts everything the European Union is doing, nor does it mean that it rejects everything, but all it means is that this resolution is being declared by the House. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members once again that T/5138. There is still one person who wishes to speak on this proposal. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-16-164	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I must start by repeating the President's comment, the speech by Mr Firtl Mátyás and Mr Zoltán Lukács, in which you reminded us all that it was about the publication of a bill on harmonisation. Yet, there have been allegations made that I, as I believe, as a representative of the government present, must respond to. In particular, the government represents national interests only in words, not in action, and it should be given substantial action. Please, I think that the Hungarian Government is not known in the European Commission, in Brussels and throughout Europe as a government that does not stand up for national interests. In addition to the present topic, two cases have been mentioned by the better representatives: the representation of agricultural land and Hungarians across the border. With regard to agricultural land, a new regulation has been introduced, which many people even think goes beyond EU rules, and an infringement procedure has also been initiated against the domestic rule, against the rule which, I think, is aimed at living off the land, who live locally, and who also ensure the livelihood of their families. Another thing is the representation of Hungarians across the border. Let me highlight one thing: today, thanks to the parties of government, Hungarian representatives of areas outside the European Union can also make their voices heard in the European Union. Please, Transcarpathia, Hungarian representative of Vojvodina is in the European Parliament. What would be more justified by the fact that the government and the governing parties stand up for Hungarians across borders than by the fact that their representative is present in the European Parliament and can tell us all the problems? [[16.50]] Allow me to turn back to the subject that we are discussing here. I have to say here that in the debate on the Community budget, there is action, and factual figures show that the government has stood up for national interests and has succeeded in doing so. Congressman Mátyás Firtl also mentioned specific figures, so allow me to highlight from three aspects that the government has also successfully stood up for national interests on this issue, also in the case of the Community budget. The first comparison can be made in relation to the Commission's original proposal, which was mentioned by Mr Tibor Bana. Let us look at the Commission's original proposal and then what results have been achieved. Sky and earth are the difference between the two. Yes, the Hungarian government has successfully represented the need for more resources. Let us look at this comparison from the second aspect, from the aspect of the Community budget as a whole. It has also been said that the Community budget is shrinking. How is it that in a shrinking budget we were able to reach a Hungarian position, according to which, compared to the previous period - as the congressman once again mentioned - the per capita support will increase by HUF 50,000? However, I think these figures show that the government has successfully stood up for Hungarian interests. And allow a third numerical comparison: compare the Hungarian position with that of other EU countries. [[???Szilágyi György: Az átváltás?!???]] We're in a podium, Congressmen. I therefore think that the proposal that lies before the Honourable Parliament is indeed a proposal that reflects the EU's agreement after standing up for Hungarian interests. Finally, I must say this, the current document is a document adopted by the 28 Member States of the European Union and, as has been said, it is no longer possible to amend it here. Of course, it is not just the result of the government's presentation to Parliament; I would remind everyone that during the long negotiations, the government presented its position in detail and even agreed in the Parliament's Committee on European Union Affairs. The committee was discussed in detail, and we also held a parliamentary position. Here again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as regards the UK correction and the correction mechanisms, the Hungarian initial position was to simplify the current system - in which I do not argue with Mr Tibor Bana, I also think it needs to be simplified - but let us see that we had to reach an agreement signed by 28 countries. I know exactly what the British are saying, and I personally consulted several Members. That is why I say that when we talk about Hungarian interests, we also need to know that all 28 Member States had to agree that this agreement should be in front of us. If it could have been achieved that there was no British correction, then we could not have talked about more EU GDP points, the British would not have paid a penny into the common budget - we all know that the British are net contributors, the British are partly financing the subsidies that the Hungarian economy can use, whether we look at the past period or the years ahead. Here, allow me to say again, factually, that it is a compromise proposal, which, on the basis of the facts, I believe, justifies the successful representation of Hungarian interests; a proposal which, if adopted by the Parliament, will have the possibility, for example, to transfer nearly HUF 1400 billion of support to the Hungarian economy in the next year's budget; a proposal that, if adopted by the Parliament, would have the possibility of a 3.7 per cent annual average net position in terms of net position characterising the Hungarian money flows in proportion to GDP between 2014 and 20, and which would be used for EU support or a very significant net position, yes, would also be accompanied by a contribution to the budget of the European Union. In addition to all these Hungarian interests, with respect, I propose to the Parliament to support with its vote the proposed bill, to support the efforts to open up a thousand billion-dollar EU funds to Hungary and to support the government's endeavour to implement a sensible policy that puts domestic businesses in position in order to develop the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-165	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would just like to inform all those who have tried to advise me during the speech of the Secretary of State that the Rules of the House 38. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 clearly states that the author may conclude immediately after the end of the debate, so the closing point is not part of the debate. The fact that the Parliamentary Act authorises the Executive President concerns the debate. In the closing word - it literally says: "You can say a closing word in which you can answer what has been said in the debate, so that in the closing word you can also say other points of view, perhaps those which you think it is important to put in other light. I would like to inform the House that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending Act X of 2006 on cooperatives until closure. A separate motion by our fellow Member Lajos Kósa Fideszes T/5126. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa to present the item on the agenda within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-166	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, The current bill seems simple, but it is one of the stages of a rather complex process. It is about a very special form of employment in Hungary, which, oddly, exists only in Hungary among the EU Member States, and this is the institution of student associations and school associations. This was established in the early 90s, and the particular cooperative relations in Hungary made this possible, and it is all about the fact that students can work in a school cooperative from 16 to 18 years of age in an organised form, or in a student cooperative with higher education and university law, and this form of employment covers a wide range of areas, from simple trained work to intellectual helper work, to the completion of, say, internet IT services that require serious preparation. This has been quite popular before, and its roots are back in the '80s, but the fact is now that roughly 130,000 students are working on this regularly. If you think about it, this means that more than one third of those in higher education are working regularly in student associations during their university years. Of course, student cooperatives in the whole employment system represent only a small section, as 130 000 of 4.3 million employees do not seem to be so much, but given that this is a form of employment that makes it possible and helps Hungary to have a much lower unemployment rate for age groups aged 18-25 than the average of similar or slightly more developed European countries, I must say that this is a form, I can safely say: Hungaricum, which is worth supporting and developing. Working in student associations means socialization, knowledge, a little opening up the world for college students, because who, say, goes straight from the high school bench to university, really doesn't know the world of work, doesn't know, so to speak, the life in capital, and it's a lot of experience at a time when he's still protected, because he's working, he's going back to college, he realizes that there are bosses, he realizes that, by the way, bosses can be a lot of different kinds of people, he has to work disciplined, he learns to organise himself, the management of student unions also comes out of students, he learns to get a job on the market, he has to take responsibility for it. [[17.00]] So the young person acquires a lot of useful knowledge, who is then more than once located at the company where he worked as a student cooperative member, and especially when it is no longer just a matter of taking part in the seasonal work of student cooperatives, let's say, in the car park of Tesco, from this type of work to the digitalisation of various important documents. There is very positive experience with this form of employment. The social meaning is also extremely useful. It's extremely useful. The fact is, we have seen that student associations raise a number of regulatory problems on their side that are worth considering. Therefore, in cooperation with the government, we have already improved the competitive position of school cooperatives at many points. For example, they are also concerned with the fact that those entrusted with the school association must accept disabled people over a certain quota. To prevent this from being bypassed, we adopted legislation earlier. It was said that we turned the VAT on the entire labour market, because we saw that this was the only step, and the student associations pointed out that it would bring about HUF 25-30 billion in revenue to the budget. It drives out and cleans out those temporary agency workers who also competed with student cooperatives and, by the way, obviously VAT, so to speak, bypassing it, over which labour borrowers have often turned a blind eye, since they are not particularly interested in the development of budget revenue. The current proposal is also about student cooperatives and is discussing a very important issue. In particular, it means that under a certain minimum commission fee, you can't sign up with school cooperatives, otherwise you can't sign up with anyone. Another pass of the cooperative law has already said this in connection with the amendments, precisely because if there is a minimum wage in the employment world, then let us also create the minimum wage for students. There are two parts of this amendment, because it does not stop on its own, which only gives the government the opportunity to provide, in a government decree, a formula for how the minimum commission fee is to evolve. Obviously, this is linked to the minimum wage, so we did not want to put it in the legislative text. On the other hand, the government decree should also provide for this, and we discussed with the government how much compulsory employees of student cooperatives should receive from this minimum fee. It's all so high that it means that students actually get the minimum wage. This means that, given current income conditions, the income of students working in the school cooperative will on average be 10-15 percent higher. This also helps the Hungarian government's economic policy, which the Fidesz faction supports to a great extent, by trying to catch up with the Hungarian economy and catch up with the European Union average from the income side. Because everyone who says that wages in Hungary are much lower than the European average is absolutely right. But this will not happen on its own, but can only be achieved if economic policy, through various means, constantly exerts pressure from the bottom to the rise in wage levels. I would add that this could lead to a significant draw on the Hungarian economy from the demand side later. So it would actually be better to adjust to a higher level of balance. This path leads through small steps, because it is also easy to figure out that correction in too big steps has very serious economic policy risks. It's a small step. I ask Members to support this proposal. By the way, it is typical that at the press conference that we held with the school associations, not only the presidents of the cooperative associations, but also the president of HÖOK came and said that he was very much in agreement with him, we were right to push the money that could be made in the school cooperatives. He said that this is a major help for students whose families are not among the best conditions to finance higher education studies. By the way, I've seen this on my own, and I've worked as a member of a school cooperative in my university, and it was good, because I could get a very significant professional experience. It is really important, it affects one third of all students in full-time higher education, along with the other measures that we have taken before and which are still in front of the House. I am referring only to one: we also initiated the possibility for passive students to work for a year, so as long as their passive period is in school cooperatives. This, by the way, means roughly 30,000 extra jobs for students, which it also absorbs... It is not in this proposal. [[???Dr. Szakács László: Múlt héten volt!???]] This is a previous proposal, the previous proposal. What I'm trying to say is that it's not a sporadic proposal that we just accidentally thought of, but it's part of a concept. It consists of amending our intention and many separate pieces of legislation to actually strengthen this special form of employment, which is a Hungaricum, when this type of series of amendments ends. In fact, if the Members support us in this, we believe that this should be taken to the Union. We can say that, contrary to what Brussels is currently doing in relation to the employment of people under the age of 18 and 25, as opposed to the EURES programmes, there is this possibility. I think that the EURES programme is a mistake - it's my first job in the European Union, in English shortcuts - and it's actually nothing more than a programme where the Union is organizing a great deal of money to bring young people from countries where there is not enough labour supply to where they are. Typically, the main focus of the EURES programme is the transfer of young people from Mediterranean countries to German and Northern countries, and the EU spends a lot of money on this. It organizes programs, grants applications, grants to employers and others. We claim that the EURES programme is what it is. But if there is already money for this, then let us create forms of employment that are very helpful to these young people, and let us say to the Union that this is our spiritual contribution. It's a special form of employment, not in any other country. We can easily initiate the fact that Hungary is not only intrusive, it is not only constantly trying to act in Europe in its own interests, but we want to put something down on the table of the Community for best practice or other reasons - it is one of those things. Look at today, in Mediterranean countries, there is 50 percent unemployment in the ages of 18-25, which is brutal. And this doesn't apply to day school students, but to people who aren't in full-time employment, so who are looking for a job. And the only idea is to take these young people to the northern countries? It works somehow, but it's not real. While we can also tell you the many benefits of this form of employment in school cooperatives and student cooperatives. It is true that this also involves budgetary support. At the very least, we know that the employment form of the school cooperative has benefits from the public cost side, which entails a waiver of budgetary revenue. So, in this sense, budget support, because, by the way, the wage costs of school cooperatives are supported. But if we counted it, if we extended it to the European level, it would otherwise be financed from less than the EURES programmes. So I think it's worth thinking about. The government has also calculated the benefits of this, and we have been able to convince him to let us do it. Otherwise, the admission of passive students to the employment scheme of the school cooperative also entails a budget cancellation, but there is no doubt that some 20 to 30 thousand students can legally work in school cooperatives, which will cleanse the economy and apply as a minimum of VAT on the other side of the budget. Overall, I therefore think that this is a matter that is worth supporting. I know that other politicians have dealt with this idea, and there have been even proposals on a similar subject before Parliament. Then we said, if you still remember that it's okay, and we're gonna support them, we're just gonna wait until we see the overall figures for next year's budget, so we can look at whether it's okay or not. [[17.10]] We know that this proposal also raises questions in a budgetary context, which, if we do not know how to plan the budget next year, is at least a little daring - not to say jumping into the pool, but we do not know if there is water in it - so in this sense it is bold to negotiate early. However, we see that the government's decision to decide on the number of the budget for 2016 - we will vote next week on the amendments and then on the whole - enabled us to bring this in. The Secretary of State can tell you that we also argued quite a lot with the representatives of the cooperative, because, in the beginning of early spring, they were extremely vehemently expressing the view that student work was coming, that summer was the great season of student work, and that it should be ready by then. We said we couldn't do this without budgetary context. But the good thing now is that the adoption of the budget is on the verge, in which we have been able to calculate these figures, the NGM has agreed - especially thanks to the attitude of the NGM, because after many debates we have convinced each other - and in this sense we can represent it. With regard to the reverse VAT - perhaps the Secretary of State remembers it - we also argued about what it entails in the temporary agency market, we managed to get it accepted, the EU accepted it and look at the VAT payment in this market: the market has indeed been cleared. The minimum service will also mean that those temporary agency workers and cooperatives who are obviously willing to make a commitment price below the minimum wage will have to cheat the VAT, otherwise they will be ruined, they will fall out of the market. Unfortunately, we know that the market works by the fact that it is the big multis, but even the smaller ones are putting out applications where even, how can I say, competitive offers - which are otherwise frivolous - make those who want to work seriously have to go into a price that cannot be anything other than marching towards the gray zone. Otherwise, this proposal will also help to eliminate this. So, honourable House, honourable Members, thank you very much for earlier comments from Members who have otherwise thought in the same direction. The LMP and Jobbik had similar proposals or aspirations, and now I ask you to support this together, because now, looking at the budget, it is bravely acceptable, and a case that, in front of the Summer Work Brigade, helps students to work and receive a little more wages, and this is where the student minimum wage is held. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the secretary of state to present the government's position now or later. [[???Banai Péter Benő: Most.???]] Now. Is it clear that Secretary of State Banai will? [[Peter Benő Banai nodds.]] Then I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő, who represents the government's position.
u2015-06-16-168	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Government supports the submitted bill because it contributes beyond what has been said to the improvement of the conditions necessary for the work of educational institutions and can contribute to the creation of the necessary conditions for the studies of the members of the school cooperatives. Approximately 130,000 people work in Hungary every year through school cooperatives. The employment relationship between the school cooperative and its member is special, and this employment relationship is also subject to the general rule that, as a basic wage, workers cannot be paid less than the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage. School-cooperative employment is able to provide members with job opportunities adapted to the needs and qualifications of their members due to flexibility. It is in the primary interest of all workers to have full access to the remuneration of the work carried out on the pay day. However, it is considered to be special that wages represent a particularly high proportion of the costs of the student cooperative, so in this case the possibility of paying wages is directly proportional to the rate of the service fee for the work. Therefore, if the amount required to cover the wage and minimum operating costs is not covered by the service fee, it is very easy to fail to pay wages. The draft law seeks to guarantee wage payments, and the government therefore supports the proposal for a minimum service fee. The establishment of a minimum service fee will eliminate in future the risk that the recipient of the service will impose a fee below the level of wage coverage on the service-performing school network in the framework of a market deal, thereby ensuring safe payment of wages. In view of this, the Government supports the proposal and asks the Honourable Parliament to also support the motion submitted. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now up to the speeches of the Members, including the lead speaker's round. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Gelencsér, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. The time frame is 15 minutes. Congressman Attila Gelencsér, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-170	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill was submitted to Parliament in order to ensure the operational coverage of the school cooperatives and thus to ensure the safe payment of the wages of the members of the school cooperatives. The bill also covers a number of constitutional principles. The government considers it important that Hungary strives to create the conditions for every able-bodied person who wants to work to be able to work. It is particularly important to improve the chances of young workers being employed. The Fundamental Law lays down that positive discrimination can be applied in order to create equal opportunities. The national creed also states that there is a need to rely more on the future generation, so it is absolutely justified to improve their situation. In recent years, the government has taken a number of measures to promote young people's incentives and opportunities to work. This has been the case in recent years for the summer schoolwork programme, where young people between 16 and 25 years of age could get jobs in local authorities. In 2013, the government spent 1.5 billion forints and 1.7 billion forints, which allowed nearly 16,000 and over 23,000 young people to participate in the program. In addition to earning wages, it was also important for the programme participants to try themselves on the labour market and to build their careers with greater awareness. The reactions of the labour market have shown that they have often been able to employ highly qualified students, and that this form of work is particularly suitable for some jobs, as Lajos Kósa said. In the opinion of the profession, it is important that students and students are able to expand and test their knowledge already in the course of learning, and in some cases they can even acquire their future jobs. On average, 180 to 200 thousand young people work in Hungary every year - as has already been said here - of which 130 thousand are those who do so within the framework of a school cooperative. In addition to providing greater security, it also offers more flexible work opportunities that are more easily compatible with the curriculum. School cooperatives have been operating since 1983. Experience has shown that they require 15 per cent of the net turnover of the cooperative. As a result, the remaining 85 percent can be paid to their members. Since there is significant competition in the labour market, it would be appropriate to increase the protection of young workers, so the proposal also sets minimum service fees for school cooperatives so that workers can be guaranteed a wage. Under the proposal, therefore, the government is authorised to set the minimum service fee for services provided by the school cooperative by means of a regulation. Mr President, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.20]]
u2015-06-16-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-172	Thank you for the floor, Honourable House. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, What our fellow Member Lajos Kósa has said is that there is certainly such a reading of this legislation, adding that we have made quite a step forward. We agree on the presentation of student associations, but we have come a little too soon from the tesco Christmas tree sale to the European Union's wage level to the solution of the labour market problems for young people in the European Union. I think that this legislation has a reading that is a little less targeted than that. Last week, the House really discussed the passive and active student relationship, and I think we agreed on what was in it. Mostly you can agree with what Lajos Kósa said in his current exposure. But all we have to say is that there are two proposals here, one of which you have withdrawn. The two proposals are not very different, there are two small differences. One is that one of them is not only our fellow Member Kósa, but also our fellow Member Szatmáry. And the other is that you have set a minimum operating amount of 15 percent. In this second proposal, since the former has been withdrawn, it is already excluded from the supervision of the legislation, and on the basis of a formula or a formula that will come to pass, we now know that the government will, in general, be bound to the minimum wage in its regulation, to determine what is going to happen to these payments and how the operating costs of the school cooperatives should be determined. This present proposal, tabled, seems to be a technical amendment, but, as my fellow Member says, I see a deeper meaning in this, but I see this deeper meaning elsewhere, because to quote László Kövér, we already have much more experience than we have any illusion left. What we see is that, while the justification can be used to establish government intentions, we now know that they will link the main element of this formula to the minimum wage, but we do not know this formula yet. However, we think, as Congressman Kósa said, that market segment, which is whatever it is, if it is 130,000 people, and these school cooperatives are thus, especially if they are to be charged with operating costs around 15%, which they will be obliged to comply with, is likely to shrink this market segment and not solve the problems, but create problems. Because there are between 8 and 12 percent of these costs in the temporary agency, and it is quite simply cheaper to hire a worker than the school cooperative, in Hungarian: to achieve any goal with student work. What my fellow Member has said, by the way, can be agreed with all of them, from work socialization to the acquisition of professional experience. That's what they're gonna narrow it down. Based on this formula, which we now suspect will be linked to, which number will be closer to, they are actually fixing this work. There will be a minimum, such a fixed price, that, if I say it nicely, there will be a quasi-official price for this work, which clearly distorts the market on which this Hungarian unicum, as you say, has so far played a certain role. The question is that, if it is so successful, the question is, if we think that such an exemplary programme, even against the European Union's many tens of billions of euros, is much more sensible to introduce such a unique, unique form of cooperative and work organisation, even throughout the EU, then why do we narrow it down? Why are we narrowing it down? Why make it a fixed price, why make it official? And now I refer back to the fact that there may also be a reading of this which my fellow Member Kósa has said, but there may also be such reading that current actors must be excluded from the market. Today, we were discussing such a proposal, when legislation was created, it pushed one of the media companies out of the advertising market, and after buying the company, Mr.Garancsi, a good friend of Viktor Orbán, they realized that the regulation was wrong and they took it back. That's what we're afraid of. Because we have a lot more experience than we have any illusions left, whether it's about leading current market players out of the market, finding out their flaws when they're in someone else's hands, and then leading them back to the market, but with the direction of people close to Fidesz. In other words, only the chosen can remain. The previous version, which was already recorded with our fellow Member, Mr Szatmáry, may have been supported, because it would have brought this proposal before the legislative procedure, it would have brought in the formula, or it would have been my Lord's forgiveness, the absolute number that was written in it; and it could be debated with it, 15, 12, 8, it could have been 20, but you have withdrawn it and said that you should be more in the government's jurisdiction. I keep it quiet and in parentheses, and I go from the subject to one sentence, everything now goes into regulation control, the MFB, all state-owned companies and all their acquisitions, portfolio building. There's a concentration of power in some of the Ministries now that's amazing. But when I get back here, you tell me everywhere that the crisis is over, it's the construction period. During the construction period, the rules of fundamental democracy are respected, not regulation governance is needed. We also believe that Parliament is flexible enough and that this market is quite rigid enough to have been able to apply it safely in law. But you're removing him from Parliament's jurisdiction and putting him under the government so that the government can favor whoever he thinks is nice to him. When we were preparing for this debate, we did not know how the operating cost would be determined. Now it is worth taking part in the debate because we have learned that it has something to do with the minimum wage. What we're seeing here is that the state is not really going to be a big part of this. The state's gonna collect taxes on this. So the burden on businesses will increase. By the way, we are glad that the students will receive the compensation for their work, and we are glad that the entrepreneur can pay the tax, but ultimately the entrepreneur will pay everything. And one more thought to the end: we have heard long and hard work and incredible effort to bring this proposal to our attention at the same time as negotiating the budget. Well, my fellow Member, think about it if we had discussed the budget in a normal way in October, based on normal facts. Then I think we shouldn't have been so crucified, it's true that at that time we wouldn't have been able to incorporate this legislation into summer work. I mean, can't budget numbers fit? Anything you want, it's okay. If you read the chapter of the EMMI where we spend 12 billion on football, I'm curious how much money you're going to get. Here, adding the amount invested, energy and the benefits derived from it together is not price-valued. Ladies and gentlemen, Whatever you want, it's okay. One thing you have to be sure of is that this is also your responsibility. The Hungarian Socialist Party will not support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-16-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gergely Farkas. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-174	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In my view, the issue beyond discussion is that the issue of school cooperatives and student work are very important and very useful for young people. It's no coincidence that we've been dealing with this for years. We have made a number of proposals, as the rapporteur pointed out. [[17 .30]] I would also like to correct that in every case here you have voted off our proposals only because of the budgetary implications, for example. In particular, our proposal for passive students, submitted three years ago, that they should be entitled to do student work, you specifically said at the committee meeting that they did not refer to budgetary implications, but that they said that you do think it is right to distinguish between those studying in the day, those attending higher education institutions and those with passive rights. I am glad that their position has improved in this respect, and at last, after three years, this proposal has been adopted, because it is indeed helping thousands of young people to get a job even when they are experiencing an inactive student status. The problem exists, which is the subject of the current proposal for a resolution before us, the bill deals with, but I also have a question about formal requirements for Lajos Kósa. It wasn't said in the expozee, but I think it could have been an interesting thing, what happened last Wednesday, when the bill was withdrawn a few hours before the concrete proposal was discussed, and then presented in a new form, which had already moved the specific formula into a government decree and the extent to which a student worker had to pay the minimum. This is therefore a big difference, because we know very well that it does not hold a government decree to you, but that, if it had been enshrined in law, they should have brought this proposal to the House every time, which, in our opinion, would have been right if this issue had been discussed here in front of the House, and, let us say, opposition parties could also express their views on the fact that the ominous, let us say, 15 percent, we agree or disagree, otherwise, if we are talking about student work here, what other issues arise in relation to this issue. We consider it wrong, and we consider it a very wrong step, that instead of having law on this, and the Parliament could modify it after a more serious debate, instead you can amend it in a government decree, who knows what lobbying is, according to what interests. I understand that this is easier for you, but we cannot agree with this very much, and I would also like to see Lajos Kósa react in his closet, or even after my speech, to what took place here in the background, which made that bill have to be withdrawn, and this new form, which we have not been able to support, was presented instead. The problem exists, as I said, that in the case of student workers, it has happened that, either because of the trick of the school cooperative or because of the employer's trick, these young people received less than the minimum wage per hour. At the same time, I feel that this proposal, despite the fact that we appreciate the intention and think it is good, cannot solve this problem at the same time, because, unlike government communication, it is not about students getting a new minimum wage or raising their salary, because the Labour Code has clearly stipulated that the minimum hourly wage is the gross HUF 604 gross. The fact that there were students who didn't get that much wasn't because of the lack of legislation, but about the tricks that we've witnessed here in relation to the student work that they still don't care about, and I feel that this is a serious deficiency. I find it lacking that there is no possibility for a young person to do so when, say, the school association or the employer acts in a way that adversely affects him or is unfair, there is no opportunity for him to take the necessary steps. I would much rather consider it important, or I would also consider it important, to create an opportunity for these young people - here under young people, it is important to think a little bit about their situation, in many cases 16, 17, 18-year-olds, who are really ignorant, do not know what system the labour market is based on, what opportunities they have, what rights they have, and this is not expected from such a young person, but a large number of high school students are also doing student work and cannot be expected to be aware of the possibilities, to be legally prepared - we would consider it very important to create, in addition to such proposals, an opportunity for these young people to take the necessary steps to report their problems and abuse. Another psychological situation that might come to mind here about young people is that a lot of young people are happy to get a job for a few months in the summer, can work something, can raise some pocket money, so let's say at the end of the summer, they can go on vacation for a week. Such a youth often dares not risk confronting, say, his school association or his employer, swallowing these problems and forgetting them or turning a blind eye to them, and many of these experiences have come to us that some school associations or employers have abused them. What I would therefore like to raise here in the context of this debate is that we should also address this issue and create opportunities for legal assistance for these young people, because you are not dealing with this, and I say that this would be almost more important than setting a mandatory minimum wage right now. Let's talk a little bit about 15 percent, which I'm not sure that's gonna happen. In the previous proposal, this was part of what the government decree would eventually determine, and you know that we do not know, but it would have been good to talk about it. In fact, according to professional organisations, 15 per cent of the margin required for smaller school cooperatives or a percentage necessary to maintain them, but in many cases a larger school cooperative can operate with a margin of 8-10 per cent. In this sense, this regulation, let us say, will give the larger organisations, the larger school cooperatives, a competitive advantage, because for them this 15 percent margin, if you will determine this much, will result in greater profits for a larger school cooperative, thereby increasing their market influence. It is also worth talking about if this is the right way. It is not certain that the right way to go towards monopolisation in relation to school cooperatives may be a much better option for smaller, often specific or even regional school cooperatives, and in this respect this 15 percent can really benefit larger school cooperatives. In the present form of the regulation, a Bianko decree, really states that the government will decide what kind of... - this is exactly what this paragraph says:. The Government will be authorised to set the minimum service fee for services provided by the school cooperative by decree. It's a Bianco decree. This is a Bianco regulation, we do not know what it will contain in practice, it is a big step backwards from the proposal you presented first, so we cannot support it in its present form either. There may be a number of questions that not only I am asking, but also those who are experts or who have insight into this system, this sector of the labour market. It is not clear from the bill, for example, what sanctions may be imposed by the tax authority if a person does not comply with the 15% or other percentage rule, we also do not receive any information as to whether this new legislation may apply to the contracts in force. So there are questions that have been raised by professional organisations, because there is nothing to hear about, nor can we read about it in the description, nor can we read about it in the explanation, nor have we heard about it in the expo. But once again, our biggest problem is that we are talking about a Bianco provision that affects us in such a way that we cannot talk about this important issue here in the future in front of the Parliament, which we consider to be a bad direction. We also miss the fact that the system that, even despite this minimum service fee, schools and employers can play tricks can be abused, they can take advantage of the situation of young people, which comes from a smaller experience in the labour market due to their age... - there is no possibility to report these abuses, and we would consider this very important. In order to prevent this, for example, preparing for student work in education would be considered a proposal worth considering. It wouldn't cost much, say, within a high school, to spend an hour or two in a class teacher's class saying that, yes, if young people go to such school associations, what opportunities they have, what rights they have, what guarantees protect them from exploitation. [[17.40]] I would ask you to consider these proposals, and I would also ask Lajos Kósa to answer why I would like to pass this proposal in the form of a government decree, why they will not give us the opportunity to talk about this important issue here in public. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-176	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kósa and Kristóf Szatmáry MPs submitted this proposal. With regard to the law a few years ago, we pointed out that we regret the fact that often the pro-government, so the proposals tabled by them, to say the whole legislative work, are sometimes put in a bit of a difficult position with their unexpected proposals. This is one of the things that we see now that this proposal has been unexpectedly withdrawn, which would have introduced a minimum service fee for the employees of student cooperatives to protect the wages of student workers. The proposal would have set the minimum service fee at 117.8 per cent of the minimum wage. Based on the fact that school cooperatives typically spend 15% of their net turnover on operation and 85 percent on wages, the minimum service fee would have provided sufficient coverage for the minimum wage payable to students. The proposal responded to the real problem of the fact that in the price competition in the student labour market, cooperatives are cutting down fees, resulting in the fact that in many cases student workers do not have access to the legal minimum wage. For this reason, it is indeed appropriate to set a minimum statutory service fee. However, lobbying interests could have been stronger than the interest of student workers in the statutory minimum wage, since the authors unexpectedly withdrew the proposal last week, for which no justification was given. To this day, we do not know what could have happened after the Economic Committee took the proposal into consideration. We can only speculate - did the representatives change their minds at the pressure of the school cooperative lobby? It was obviously very awkward for them, so Lajos Kósa thought of one and came up with another bill. This proposal, leaving literally the justification for the previous proposal, contains only one empowering provision for the government to fix in a regulation the minimum service charge to be paid for services provided by the school cooperative. This is a step backwards from the previous proposal and we are still waiting for explanations from the government representatives as to why their previous proposal had to be withdrawn. We would also like to have a guarantee that, even at the level of regulation, a formula similar to that contained in the previous proposal will be introduced. Ensure that minimum service charges covering the minimum wage will be imposed. If this happens, it can contribute to the whitening of the student labour market, which, at the same time, would require the establishment of an effective control system, with the introduction of regular labour checks. It would also be necessary to teach labour-related knowledge within the education system, as students do not have the necessary labour law and labour skills when they leave the labour market. As a result, they are in a vulnerable position in the world of work. In addition to the settlement of student labour wages, it would also be very important to settle the remuneration of students in higher education internships. Under the Higher Education Act, a student subject to an internship can work on the basis of a contract of employment with a professional practitioner. According to the current rules, the employer is not obliged to pay a fee for the duration of a contiguous traineeship of less than 6 weeks, but in the case of a practice exceeding that, the remuneration is mandatory. This is at least 15% of the minimum wage per week. This means that the minimum remuneration per month is less than 100 per cent of the minimum wage, only 60 per cent of it. This is a low amount that should definitely be raised. The proposal is therefore supported by the LMP, but we are waiting for an explanation of why their previous proposal was withdrawn, which would have guaranteed the minimum service fee at the statutory level. Let us now vote blindly on this proposal by not seeing how the government intends to regulate this at regulation level, whether there will be a guarantee of payment of the legal minimum wage or if lobbying interests will prevail. So we would like to get an explanation and a guarantee that students will receive an adequate wage guarantee. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-16-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Lajos Kósa, rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Lajos Kósa points to Péter Benő Banai.]] The representative of the government can speak at any time, that is perfectly natural, Member; we should read the house rule once. [[???Novák Előd: 25 évig megvolt nélküle!???]]
u2015-06-16-178	Mr. President. Dear House, With your permission, I have just agreed with the Secretary of State that if you wish to speak on behalf of the government, you should speak before me. If you give me the opportunity, I would like to make this motion. [[???Szilágyi György: Ajjaj! Az elnök bólint.???]] Thank you very much. I thought there might be a way to do that. I was hoping for it. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-179	Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai, please.
u2015-06-16-180	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I took the view from the debate that most of the speakers agreed with the aim of the motion, and agreed that there should be a minimum service fee that should be fixed. There is only one question as to why it is appropriate to set this minimum charge in this form. That was, in my view, the main question. [[???Dr. Szakács László: Mert nem bízunk a kormánypártban.???]] Because, in the current legal order, as well as the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage are defined by a government decree, it is therefore appropriate that the minimum amount of the service fee be set in the present case by a government decree. I would also like to mention that, in most market economies, the legal order, in a similar way, does not define the minimum benefits mentioned in legislation at the lower level, but rather in legislation at the lower level. Therefore, from a legal point of view, I also see that the objective set out in the motion has been justified by the legal side. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-181	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform the House that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. Congressman Kósa, what are you applying for? [[???Novák Előd: Ülj le, egyes!???]]
u2015-06-16-182	[[Without sound:]] Mr President, as rapporteur, I would like to...
u2015-06-16-183	May I have Congressman Kósa's microphone sharpened, please?
u2015-06-16-184	Thank you very much. I was thinking, as a pointer, I'd like to react now, because...
u2015-06-16-185	Congressman, this is no longer an option. I gave you the floor, you didn't use it, I can't say the word twice.
u2015-06-16-186	But, Mr President, I asked the President in a motion for a point of order, and I did not say that the representative of the government, who indicated that he wanted to speak to him, should be heard before the closing.
u2015-06-16-187	Congressman, let's not open a debate, you didn't ask for an order of business. If you had asked in order, it would have appeared elsewhere on my monitor. I can speak on a point of order, of course, on a point of order. This is a matter of substance.
u2015-06-16-188	Well, Mr. President, thank you very much for the opportunity.
u2015-06-16-189	You're welcome.
u2015-06-16-190	Then we misunderstood each other. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-191	No problem. Some other time... [[Novák Előd is sitting in the expert box clapping.]] Visitors in the gallery shall not give an opinion. Congressman, you are able to remain in Parliament in your capacity if you are in your place, so I ask you to refrain from being pleased. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill to amend certain laws in the context of the reduction of state management benefits will follow until closure. The submission is T/5145. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Kis Miklós, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[17.50]]
u2015-06-16-192	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill amending certain laws in the context of the reduction of state management benefits is set out in Annex II to the State Reform Act. As you know, the government has also committed itself to reducing public debt, one of the main objectives of which is to create a cost-effective, cost-effective public administration. In line with this, there has been a review of the benefits granted to state leaders and eligible persons for the same classification, the scope and extent of which are also reduced by the government decree on the granting of state leaders prepared and adopted by the government on this subject. During the creation of the new Government Decree, the primary legislative objective was to ensure that the benefits of government governance, government-related supervised bodies such as central offices, government offices, are not fully linked to the granting of a state leader, but that the government has the power to regulate these benefits at the level of regulation. This makes it possible to differentiate benefits with regard to state leaders and other managers. One of the objectives of the bill is to establish the necessary legislative rules for the establishment of new legislation and to provide for the statutory powers necessary to establish rules at the level of the regulation that already provides for such differentiation. Accordingly, the bill amends the current empowering provision of the Act on Central Government Administrations and the Status of Government Members and State Secretarys in order to ensure consistency with the Government Decree on New State Driving Benefits. It lists precisely the officials whose benefits are regulated by the Government decree, such as ministers, ministers of state, administrative secretaries, deputy state ministers, commissioner of government, prime minister, prime minister, commissioner, minister, head of government office and head of central office. By not adapting the allocation of statutory officials to the future benefits of a state leader as a result of the amendment, the government will also allow the benefits to be reduced and differentiated among the managers concerned. The bill also amends the law on metropolitan and county government offices for the same reason. In the case of government commissioners leading the metropolitan and county government offices, the law also includes an authorisation clause for the creation of a government decree, and in this case, the clear aim is to not be entitled to the full range of benefits due to the Deputy State Secretarys in the future, but to create the possibility of reducing them. There is another purpose of the bill, of course, to clarify the current legislation, which has a deregulation objective and, on the other hand, a technical amendment. In the case of the latter, the amendment of the Law on Public Service Officers will obviously facilitate the application of the law and, on the other hand, the aforementioned deregulation objective, since provisions concerning the use of the central resort of the government will be repealed from the law, given that in 2014 the government decided to make other use of the facility that had been operating as a central resort and that it would no longer implement a government relief. In short, the Government Decree, as it was decided on 20 May, and the most important changes in the Government Decree on new state management benefits are as follows. This was partly affected by changes in the staff and partly by changes in benefits. I'd like to mention the most important things about the staff. The benefits are defined as the main rule for the Minister, State Secretary, Minister of Public Administration and Deputy State Secretary, taking into account the number of persons entitled to some benefits under the law. The Regulation specifically regulates the number of additional officials entitled to receive benefits under statutory authorisations and the benefits that can be granted to them. The application of the law is facilitated by the table in the Annex, which will make it easy to see the scope and extent of the benefits due to the right holders. As far as benefits are concerned, ministers appointed in the following period, undersecretaries of state and the government commissioner's entitlement to maintenance allowances granted so far will cease. In the future, only the Minister, the Secretary of State and the State Secretary of Administration will be entitled to special medical care. The Deputy State Secretary and the other officials of the Regulation are no longer entitled to this allowance as the main rule. The change affecting non-state managers entitled to State Secretary's allowances is that they will be entitled to use a lower category of passenger car. For example, the Commissioner of the Government, the Prime Minister, the head of the Government Office. The development of a fuel card and fuel consumption system will be re-regulated, by the way. Travel-related benefits are also reduced, so there will be changes in the comfort stage of the flight ticket, as well as changes in the use of the airport's government-waiter's room and the train's comfort level. Benefits related to residence abroad also change. In this respect, for example, the Minister of State, the Secretary of State and the Minister of Public Administration may waive his daily allowance under a separate government decree; and given, as I have already mentioned, that he does not have a central government resort, this benefit, i.e. the right to use a government resort, is no longer included in the Government Decree. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-16-193	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives, the speeches by the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr László Salacz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-194	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of June, the Government presented the proposal that we have just discussed, which aims to amend certain laws in the context of the reduction of state management benefits. The Government has already stated in the National Cooperation Programme its intention to abolish the legacy of unsuccessful government in the period preceding 2010 and to re-establish the functioning of the State. The offices operating as a regional body of general competence may be among the most reorganized agencies in the Hungarian administration system. From 1 September 2010, the metropolitan and county administration authorities received strong powers to coordinate the activities of the regional government, with which the operational integration of the territorial government has already been achieved. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In light of the circumstances, the government's fundamental intention is to create a good state, the means of which are to radically reform public administration, modernise it and create a real State of Service. That is why we have started restructuring and rationalising the structure of the public administration. On the basis of this bill, the government's priority objective is State Reform II. to increase the efficiency of the public administration in the framework of the programme, more coherent and controlled than ever before. It also aims to create a cost-effective territorial administration, thereby achieving the efficiency and effectiveness of the government's territorial responsibility. The primary objective of the reform of the public administration is to create a friendly public administration and to ensure the freedom of society to act in the public interest. On 1 January 2011, the metropolitan and county government offices were established. This has significantly reduced the territorial fragmentation of the previous period. A single and transparent budget has been set up to ensure efficient government administration. For citizens, the establishment of government offices has made the administration of a number of official procedures much faster and simpler, especially by first building government windows at county and then gradually walking level. On the basis of this bill, in view of the government's intention to establish a cost-effective, cost-effective public administration, the benefits for state leaders have been reviewed. [[18.00]] The government's determined objective is to reduce the scope and extent of the benefits that have been made available to date. On this basis, a review of the Government Decree on benefits and conditions for public officials of state managers and public administrations has been carried out and a new draft regulation has been drawn up. In preparing the new government regulation, the primary objective of the legislator was to ensure that the benefits of the heads of government management or supervised bodies were not adapted to the benefit of a state leader, but that the government was entitled to regulate these benefits at the level of the regulation. This allows for the differentiation of benefits for state managers and other managers. The aim of the bill is to create the necessary legal rules for the establishment of this regulatory model in order to reduce public debt, including the necessary legal powers to establish rules at regulation level. With the importance of all this, I think we all agree, because this is also in the country's common interest. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-195	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Lukács, head speaker of the MSZP, here.
u2015-06-16-196	Thank you very much. Ladies and Gentlemen, From Fidesz, ever since he came to government or before, we've heard the cheaper state, then he talks about a government reduction, he talks about administrative cuts, and he's been talking about how he wants to run the government at a cheaper rate than his predecessors, and he even wants to run the government at a cheaper rate than he used to run it. This law was also used with this password, but we believe that this is not the solution to the problem. The Orbán government will continue to fatten itself and public administration after 2010 and after 2014. Let me give you some talk about what this government looks like at state leadership level. At the end of the Bajnai government there were 15 ministers, 20 State Secretarys and 49 State Secretarys. This is a total of 85 people, as far as state leaders are concerned. The subsequent Orbán government reduced the number of ministers with 9 ministers, but worked with 47 State Secretarys and 80 Deputy State Secretarys, which are 136 people compared to 85, and the following Orbán Government: 9 ministers, 54 state secretary and 101 Deputy State Secretary, which is 164 overall. This means that this has increased to 164 people compared to 85 in 2010. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We should not be reducing the benefits, but reducing the number of state leaders, because we do not want to believe that 164 people are needed for what you have been able to provide in the previous cycle, and in previous periods the number of ministers, State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys has not come close to this level. Now you're the ones who brought in a law, and you're with him the same way you're used to writing something on the cover, and then there's something else in the law. For example, it was written that they wanted to reduce the benefits. It's an old recipe, but that's not what it's about again. Let me give you an example. For example, here is the proposal 4. The provision contained in Section 2 of the Act states that the Ministers are currently entitled to a maximum of the Deputy State Secretary's salary, i.e. less remuneration than the Deputy State Secretary's remuneration. Then the current amendment will basically take out the maximum word, and it looks like that's not the only thing they'll get, but this is what they'll have to get. This certainly does not seem to be a reduction in our reading. And you will not eliminate the possibility of political job accumulation, which we have all talked about a lot, but say that there will be a government decree and that it will regulate the benefits for this political slepp. Since this regulation is not known, and we are once again in the same place as many, many laws, that it is only the law that the government will make a decree, on which Parliament will no longer have any influence, and we will adopt this law, and believe that you will, God forbid, make a government decree that will serve the salvation of all of us, and then there will be much less leadership and much less. And we say, as always, that we do not make regulations, but regulate these issues in the law, so that we can argue about it in Parliament and see exactly what they want to do in these matters. Otherwise, the best way for the government to cut costs is to radically reduce these management posts, which we have already said. Otherwise, without this law, you have the opportunity, because the Act on the Status of Government Members and State Secretarys 75. Paragraph 2 of the Act states that the Government is authorised to regulate the number of State Secretarys of State, Deputy State Secretarys and Government Commissioners and Ministers who do not have state leadership mandates in the ministries by decree. So if you really wanted to cut these costs, you would be free to reduce these costs under this law by not naming 30 such people per week and not giving them salaries, cars, secretariats and other benefits. I must say to you that in these promises you are not credible. They are not credible, for example, because I would remind you that, a long time ago, on 10 February exactly, we tabled a bill that would have covered precisely government cost cuts, but you swept it off the table. This bill is about preventing government elite from piling up jobs - by the way, this could be one of the manifestations of corruption - and this bill has been submitted, and the majority of the government in the Justice Committee of the Parliament has not even been willing to take this issue into consideration, so it has not even appreciated talking about it. Our proposal would have offered a real solution to these matters, to reduce government costs. Now your proposal is a series of pretense measures, and once again, a series of pretense measures that are practically meant for us to believe that you will be able to run through the regulations in such a way that it will cost people less money. We also think that it is important to talk about who might be in these positions, how it is possible for state leaders to be tasked with additional tasks for which they take up two salaries, and that they are often given a task that comes from their state leadership mandate, so they should perform it in that context. Compared to this, they are entrusted with an extra task or no additional task, only to receive an extra commission, and often whether they are representatives or state leaders perform that one task for two salaries. We say that this job accumulation should be completed and made incompatible. We believe that the government commissioner, who also holds a state leadership position, should not receive two salaries for his activities, should not receive two remunerations, be satisfied with a remuneration, or even consider making these assignments incompatible. Of course, then you will not be able to perform these tasks in relation to the possibilities of two secretariats, one of the secretariats or one of their agents. We have also tabled a proposal that the Prime Minister should not be able to give a mandate to the Prime Minister's agents corresponding to the payment of State Secretary's salary. We also suggested this, and we do not see that it was considered worthy of support. We believe that your bill contains only the title of cost reduction. We don't really think it's a big deal for you to say that now you're going to tell those government actors who have traveled first class and business class so that they don't travel first class or business class anymore, while it's your minister who doesn't know how much he's traveled, where he's traveled, with whom he's traveled, who he refuses to tell you these things. [[18.10]] As we see the small roads of the Minister of Defence, which is not the official route, it is more of a private journey, but it was paid out of public money. That you're saying there's gonna be a cost reduction, that the train's gonna be set for someone not in first class, but in second class, or they're gonna tell government officials at government offices to, say, replace the bigger car with a smaller one. We think they're all fake solutions that don't actually save a lot of money. I'll say it again, because we think that a real saving would be done by solving this task with a lot less people, by reducing this huge water head if they didn't appoint so many completely unnecessary people for tasks that the government should be able to solve within its existing system. And we also see that in small items, you are now showing great rigour, and in large lots we see that they are so very tight. Small money, great rigour - big money, little rigour; that's what this bill is all about. We have tabled once again amendments to this bill, which are virtually identical to the proposals we tabled months ago in the same cost reduction case. We expect you to support these proposals. At the same time, we're saying that this government whiffing is basically what you're talking about. You see, people have had enough of you spending your money with three hands and trying to make a law they can tell you they can communicate that now you've had enough of it, and now you're going to spend less. Obviously, the question is that if you are now aware that you are spending a lot more than you should and are spending public money more gallantly than you should, of course, the question arises as to why, during your last five years of government time, this arises now, in the sixth year. While you cannot say that you have not been warned, because there is no opposition party that has often not mentioned these spendings and these unreasonable payments. We ask that this bill be added to our proposals, be inclusive in this matter, our proposals are a real cost reduction, and then this law can really be about what its title is about. As long as they're not included in this law, we think it's polish, and it's not really about making a real cost reduction, it's about looking like it's a cost reduction. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-197	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-198	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The State Reform II. We would like to make further changes to the public administration, of which our citizens will have the most tangible result, namely that the time spent on administration will indeed be reduced, as well as the fees and charges associated with the various administrative procedures will be radically reduced, so that people will be able to manage their affairs for less money in less time. To this end, we support the continuation of the extension of the steering windows, while increasing the number of steering windows and their national territorial coverage. The State Reform II. As part of this programme, we support the continuation of further integration of government agencies. The aim of the transformation is to increase efficiency, which is linked to the reform of public human capital. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/5145 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the reduction of state management benefits. Bill No.2 of this State Reform II. completed as part of a programme. All this in an environment in which Fidesz-KDNP is committed to reducing public debt, one of the main objectives of which is to develop a cost-effective, cost-effective public administration. On this basis, a review of the Government Decree on benefits and conditions for public officials of state leaders and public administrations has been carried out, a new draft regulation that would allow for differentiation of benefits for state managers and other managers. Ladies and Gentlemen, The primary objective of the bill is to ensure that the benefits of the heads of government management or supervised bodies are not adapted to a public management allowance, but that the government is entitled to regulate these benefits at the level of the regulation. To this end, the bill establishes the necessary legal rules for the development of this regulatory model in order to ensure the necessary legislative powers for the establishment of regulation-level regulations. The bill therefore lists precisely the officials, naming the minister, the State Secretary, the State Secretary of the Administration, the Deputy State Secretary, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's Commissioner, the Prime Minister's Commissioner, the Minister's Commissioner, the Head of the Government Office and the Head of the Central Office, whose benefits would be regulated by the Government Decree. The bill amends at the same time the Act on the Capital and County Government Offices and amending the Act on the Establishment and Territorial Integration of Metropolitan and County Government Offices in 2010 CXXVI. Law, too. In the case of government commissioners, the power to establish a government decree is included in the law, and the aim is to ensure that in the future they are not entitled to the full range of benefits due to the Deputy State Secretarys, but also the possibility of reducing them. Finally, the bill sets out for deregulation purposes the 2010 XLIII on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. from law to provisions which do not have normative content, given that the government no longer has a central resort. Please support T/5145. The KDNP supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-199	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr President Novak, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-06-16-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is amazing that the government's deception, in the title of this bill, is about the reduction of state management benefits, but it actually only involves the abolition of the ceiling. But it is also amazing that the MSZP already demands the abolition of the job accumulation, which it did in the government when it was on the government, that we only look at the last eight years that the current government has mentioned so much, but there were four cursed years of Hungary under Gyula Horn before that, so they did not signify the abolition of job accumulation. And let me start with that, because it took Jobbik's appearance to reduce the legal form of political crime, I think. Because its most common form was that a Member of Parliament was also a mayor, a county assembly representative or a local government representative, perhaps three at the same time. And it seems that no party has so far taken the self-limit that Jobbik has already arrived at the National Assembly, and with which, as a good example, we have been able to reach it, of course, this has required a serious social outrage because of the practice of the other parties, but we have managed to achieve that we have restrained it, and this is the most common form of job accumulation that has ceased. Of course, when we submitted this proposal, even the governing parties swept it down, but the seed was ripe, and since the last municipal elections, for example, it could not be a mayor. Even though every other parliamentary party had a parliamentary representative in the previous term, every party had a parliamentary representative who, while preserving its mandate, even made a mayor. We, too, have won the interim mayor elections, but still, using this self-limitation, I think we've managed to get the most common way of reducing it. However, newer and newer loopholes are opened here, which is why, unfortunately, the question of job accumulation is indeed topical, but perhaps not exactly the MSZP that, say, László Botka in person, but earlier in bulk, when, let us say, they were even a little stronger, indeed continued this practice. [[18.20]] I am glad that if we can talk about the job accumulation of politicians, and I would not call it a political job accumulation if a municipal representative is still a county assembly representative, because these are not full-time jobs. [[???Boldog István: Főleg, ha jobbikosok!???]] These are not full-time jobs... Congressman, feel free to press a button, you do not need to constantly pub-politicize; you can say the criticism. What I am saying is that I do not consider as a full-time job a task of municipal representatives, but let us say that I consider it to be a task of a Member of Parliament, and that is why I am glad that we have succeeded in achieving this change, even though I know that this has caused a very serious harm to the interests of you and I personally. And I know that it really hurt you when I called it a legal form of political crime, but I still think that's my opinion. In fact, I also believe that the current legal forms of political job accumulation must be removed, because this is still a legal form of political crime. At present, a Member can be a Commissioner of the Government, Prime Minister, Prime Minister or Minister of Ministers - perhaps the most common - and for this he can also take on extra allowances, while in principle, as a Member of Parliament, he should not be able to do any other job. There are only loopholes, and they are created in a series, and we have seen this in the previous cycle with the district heads, the heads of county government offices, which have created the opportunity to live with such a way of job accumulation. That is why I would be pleased if we closed the gate even before the job accumulation opportunities that have been listed above, and that we could also see clearly what authority the minister now seeks in this law, not just anyone, János Lázár - because it has a picantrey in view of his various famous affairs - what he would like to regulate in a government decree. Because at the moment only the upper ceiling of this bill has been abolished, let us say that it was not possible to grant more than a State Secretary's allowance, now in a government decree... We do not even know whether these government regulations will be tailor-made, as we have already seen here, not only a personal amendment of law, but also a constitutional amendment, if we think, in the case of the mayor of Győr, so we have seen regulations that are personalised here, and I think it is unacceptable. It is unacceptable, for example, on the basis of the Kubatov lists, on the basis of sympathy for Fidesz, or on the basis of those who are the calm commies, as Gábor Kubatov said, who may not support Fidesz, so who are those commie calmers, "sorry," said Gábor Kubatov, "and I don't think it would be right to share benefits like this, who is doing well, doing his job as a good Fidesz boy, a state leader. Say, the head of the KSH, if he doesn't get the statistics right, he could fall off the service car next year? Or how do you intend to control the in principle often independent state leaders? I don't think that's right. And what is most sad is that this proposal was made by John Lazarus. In fact, they are installing the rules on benefits to the level of government decrees, which they believe will be the guarantee of a reduction in expenditure, but it must be seen that if the author of this law is the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, then he will obviously also be responsible for that regulation, although I would expect an answer from the rapporteur, but it is likely that the regulation will be prepared there. According to this, the government can regulate itself, it will not be linked to the system of state management benefits, and it is incomprehensible why this would be a guarantee, according to the government, for savings as well. And here it is necessary to recall some of the cases of John Lazarus. I do not wish to present now, say, the famous example of the pheasant holocaust, the so-called pheasant holocaust, but indeed, John Lazarus had such flagrant rags of public money that caused public outrage in a wide range of society, which had a right to overcome the outrage of society. For example, there is the latest case where he said he wouldn't tell us where he was, which hotel, whom he met, for how much, if even a court required him to do so. On such a level, you can make such a snazzy statement after a serious scandal has developed, that in four nights you have managed to bring together the original cost figures - because you have seen several numbers here - a hotel bill of nearly HUF 2 million, and we do not know if this means luxury prostitutes disguised as manager massages, or what kind of national security risk you are talking about when you do not reveal how you can accumulate a hotel bill of HUF 2 million in four nights. I also think that it is cynical in itself that it is the national and we want to entrust the reduction of public fees, the reduction of management benefits, who, in his first parliamentary term, at a very young age, was an extremely unscrupulous record of reimbursement of the parliamentary cycle between 2002 and 2006, which was the system of reimbursement without an invoice, because at that time the MSZP and SZDSZ were actually operating a completely immoral system, and the remuneration system presented earlier by János Lázár was certainly more transparent, so let us say on his side. However, it should be said objectively that he received HUF 18 million in four years for travel and accommodation expenses, in the four years when he was not a government politician, but rather a rather unknown politician. He said then that he only took as much money from the National Assembly as he owed, i.e. 18 million 200 thousand forints in four years in addition to his fee. Overall, only in that first term did he receive HUF 41.4 million as a Member of Parliament, simply because of this one post, while speaking only seven times in four years - he was well heard: seven times in four years! I have calculated that this cost the voters 6 million forints per speech, and more, as the contributions were obviously charged to the Office of the Parliament. So János Lázár cost 6 million forints per speech, but I could say that if you look at the length of his speeches, he received more than 2 million forints per minute as the beginning of his political career here in his first parliamentary term since 2002. After all, I didn't even dare to calculate the hourly rate, but leaving such a person with the seemingly reduction in state leadership benefits, I think, quite simply cynical. Allow me to recall, however, perhaps the largest political recruiter in recent decades, who is unfortunately also related to János Lázár, the author of the present proposal, and is therefore closely linked and the way he responded to this question. How can Gábor Bódi, who has been transferred from the Bajnai government, fill four full-time jobs in public money at once if he only has a 10-hour working time as Deputy State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office? With this title, I submitted an interpellation to János Lázár, to which he answered, but I think it is not quite acceptable. Let us therefore recall the largest job hoarder in recent decades linked to János Lázár, who made 2 million HUF 600 thousand a month, until I began to press this issue in a series of ways and force him to back down, and in essence the author of this proposal, János Lázár. He made more than twice as much money as the ministerial salary, since he had four full-time jobs at the same time, and all of them were paid with public money. Of course, the small people should work, work 10 hours a day, and the Minister is not ashamed to say: "Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's Office is not a family-friendly workplace. To quote him, and to quote, the Prime Minister's Office has no obligation to work for anyone. At least in the meantime, not only would state leaders set an example, but, for example, Gábor Bódi filled three more full-time jobs, leaving all of this without consequences. And then let's believe it, or let's give it permission, and believe that he will actually reduce these benefits in a ministerial decree, which has at least one ceiling so far, and then he won't be on a legal level. Or will John Lazarus define more solid ceilings? Hard to believe. For example, the largest job surveyor in recent decades, which has been revealed at all, since the declarations of assets of the Deputy State Secretarys are unfortunately not published, although we have demanded this several times, we cannot look into it as representatives, but it has been leaked that Gábor Bódi is managing the state-owned Kopint-Datorg Kft. for 1 million a month, while the also state-owned Antenna Hungária Zrt. for 175,000 a month. He was a member of the Board of Directors, and for 648 thousand a month he was president of the National Communications and Informatics Council (NMHH), which, in principle, was independent of the government, which is also spicy because their task is to give independent opinions on draft legislation - so obviously there is no serious disagreement, no debate if he is sitting on both sides of the negotiating table. He might even be his own chief advisor if I could suggest so much to János Lazarus, a fifth full - time job. It may be appropriate to add that Gábor Bódi was also the Secretary of State of the Bajnai Government, who, in the course of the past eight years, was able to save his power, let alone be accounted for. So much for these state leaders. But speaking of goose, be fat: do you think you might want to appoint this government leader as the sixth full-time job? I think that we can slowly ask Lajos Kósa for the Superman Prize that we have now awarded him for the job accumulation mentioned here by the MSZP after an Internet vote that he has earned as a representative and once as the mayor of a distant city. [[18.30]] I am glad that we have managed to reduce the number of jobs in politics somewhat, but, as I quoted at the beginning of my speech, there are still a few points that await you. Such an incident could happen, for example, and there was not enough interpellation to settle this, since it was in vain that Gábor Bódi replied to this interpellation, and I quote that he was ready to give up his fee in the places filled, and in the plural, I had to investigate what had happened in January in my written question. In his reply, he said that he had resigned only in one place, which was said by John Lazarus, although there he had written directly about his benefits in plural, and there were several places in one place; we did not know so far. Then I had to ask another question, and then another written question, until I finally managed to get these salaries and fees cancelled. Although it is suspicious in itself that he has not given up his job, so it is worth it, so to speak, without a salary or a fee, that in itself raises the suspicion of corruption, and I would not say that it is a commitment, because if the Prime Minister's Office has ten hours a day, then he cannot perform these tasks with honor elsewhere. So it is extraordinary cynicism that while small people are being worked at the Prime Minister's Office, not only would the leaders set a good example, but they also develop into such unscrupulous ones. Based on all this, I ask you to exercise self-control and tell me what you're up to in this government decree, which you're actually asking for. We have done everything we can not only to reduce the number of jobs in politics, but also, let us start with ourselves, to make the remuneration system of its representatives more correct. When the last time MEPs were presented to use motorways free of charge and park free of charge, this was also withdrawn as a result of my criticisms as Speaker of Jobbik - perhaps the only critical comment at the time, in that debate - and because of the serious, widespread social outrage, that is not disputed, which is why it was withdrawn, but it still needed Jobbik to do so. I am pleased that my proposal for a new amendment has already been adopted by the committees, in which we have managed to prevent the possibility of a new job accumulation by Members, since we are currently faced with the proposal in which they would have proposed that regional development councils should be members. I am pleased that this amending proposal has been adopted and I hope that the remaining opening loopholes in the political stockpiling will be closed over time. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-201	Thank you very much. Mr István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-202	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, According to government communication, the bill we are discussing now is needed to reduce spending on state leaders. This is certainly a welcome goal in itself, and no action taken on the road to a cheaper state is unnecessary, but when considering the importance of the proposal, it is worth taking a look at the big picture, i.e. where this government started, what promises it made, and where it has come from with regard to the proliferation of bureaucracy and the reduction of political culture. Before 2010, Fidesz repeatedly pointed out that the state apparatus, the ministries, were full of unnecessary posts for the clientship, but that the operation of the state apparatus was actually unnecessary. The reduction in the number of ministries seems to have gone in the direction originally promised by Fidesz, a slimmer and cheaper state. However, reality has quickly confronted us with the lack of serious intention of real spending cuts and more effective management in the right-wing government. Think of the exuberant State Secretary's Faculty, parallel departments, departments or parachuted Fidesz politicians at the head of county government offices, the government commissioners. It is worth recalling here that, according to a summary made at the end of 2014, state leaders have never cost the budget as much as they do now. The total number of state leaders is 165, with the Commissioners and the Commissioners and 213. The total monthly salary of state managers exceeds 190 million HUF gross, they cost us nearly 2.3 billion in one year. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and his 10 ministers are 55 State Secretary and 99 Deputy State Secretary. They are also supported by 31 ministerial Commissioners, 5 government commissioners, 2 prime ministers and 11 prime ministers. State Secretarys are nearly three times as many as before the 2010 government change, the number of their alternates is double that number. The average gross HUF 927,000 is nearly four times the average Hungarian earnings - which is HUF 234 600 gross per month - and this is accompanied by additional benefits, such as the service car driver. The proposed amendment provides for the possibility that government-led or supervised bodies such as central offices, government offices, executives' benefits should not be adapted to the benefits of a state leader, but should be entitled to regulate these benefits at the level of a regulation by the government. In other words, this bill creates only the possibility of the promised reduction of expenditure, the final word in the new decree of the government. We hope that spending will indeed fall significantly, and the whole affair will not just be a communication bluff. However, it should be noted that even if the expenditure cuts promised are implemented, they will be dwarfed compared to the enormous increase in expenditure recorded as a result of the previously described increase in apparatus. We therefore recommend that the government be truly courageous and take down the waste under their governance, put an end to political culture positions, and try to reduce red tape and the proliferation of state apparatus, as promised by their original promise, even compared to the former socialist governments. The LMP supports any initiative to prevent unnecessary waste of money, including this proposal, but let us indicate that this is not enough in itself. They can also expect us to keep track of and keep track of their promises, so we are also looking forward to the Government Decree on concrete measures. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-16-203	Thank you very much. It's a two-minute lap. Congressman János Pócs, two minutes, please.
u2015-06-16-204	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. After all, this afternoon we have witnessed the fact that there is absolutely no harmony between the words and actions of Jobbik's representatives, because in one sentence, Mr. President Novak says the political accumulation at least five times, but, honourable Member, it should not be forgotten that there is a family in this House whose members are held by Parliament without a single election. It should not be forgotten what a contradiction is, honourable Member, when a person burns an EU flag and takes a salary from Brussels. Congressman, it should not be forgotten that this government and Fidesz were the ones who reduced the number of Members of Parliament and the number of representatives of local governments by half as long as you were speaking. If someone was paying attention to the words of Mr. Novak, it was coming from every sentence that he spoke of himself. You know, Congressman, who deals with himself has problems who deal with others and is responsible. The government has done its job, not you, this government has divided the number of Parliament and Members. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-205	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Lukács, MSZP.
u2015-06-16-206	Thank you very much. Let me repeat it again, because your predecessor Novak must have miscounted or ignored. I understand that this is now being published, and that we need to set it together or put a sign of equality, but it is the fact that the last socialist government solved its task with 85 people, and the current government solves its task with 164 people; I would not put a sign of equality, which is almost twice as much as we have given it. And the other is that I'm obviously not going to convince him, but I could argue about it, and for a long time there were debates about whether it was good for a mayor to be a member of the legislation, and whether it could be good for that settlement, or whether it was bad for a mayor to be a member of the legislation. There were ideas to become a member, but don't get two salaries, about which long debates went on anyway, there was thought in this. [[18.40]] Maybe it's a good thing the legislature isn't the mayors now. However, mayors who, by the way, have run for mayor's office and have been elected by their community cannot be called criminals. So they were not appointed or entrusted by someone, but the community knew that they were also representatives, because they were preceded by municipal elections in the parliamentary elections. That community chose that man knowing that he knew he was a Member of Parliament, by the way. With that in mind, however, the majority of the community elected him mayor. Maybe this isn't good, maybe we don't agree with that. It's not like that anymore. But that's why we call these people criminals. By the way, obviously, they're all decent, normal people, they've done their job, they've run their town, they've run their settlement, they've done their job, they've done their job, they've done their job, they've run their town, they've run their town, they've done theirs or they've done theirs. But I wouldn't call him a criminal, because these people didn't become criminals because they were elected to two positions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] At most, you disagreed...
u2015-06-16-207	Please stop, Congressman.
u2015-06-16-208	...but crime is different.
u2015-06-16-209	Mr. President Novak in two minutes, Jobbik!
u2015-06-16-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. János Pócs, I think you have given a rather unworthy answer to the interest, which must have been painful for you, that you cannot be a mayor in the future, or you couldn't have been a Member of Parliament from the previous municipal elections. [[???Pócs János: Az én feleségem nincs itt!???]] I find it incredibly unfair to point out that I met my wife in politics. As there has always been a husband-wife member of the Parliament since the change of regime, so it is in this cycle. To add, there have been periods in which five husband-wives were members of the Parliament at the same time. [[???Lukács Zoltán: Volt bizony!???]] In fact, I would add that Viktor Orbán's wife was also the candidate for Fidesz. It wasn't up to him that he didn't become a congressman. It was up to the voters. So you could have been Viktor Orbán's wife to the Parliament. I think that we would go in the wrong direction if we started to regulate whether the members of the Parliament could be brothers, as we can see, let us say, in the circles of the MSZP, for example. Father-son, could they be lovers? Or how are we going to determine these? Or could they be partners? If we split up, wouldn't that be a problem? So I think it leads very far, but the most important thing is that we do our job. We are also one of the most active Members, according to objective statistics, and we are working for that work. In fact, there are two other tasks to obtain the same honor fee as any other Member of Parliament, and this is also my answer to Zoltán Lukács, why I call the political job accumulation of a legal form of political crime, that one person takes a full-time salary from several places. I think this is unacceptable. And not only is it immoral and exorbitant social injustice, but it is also not able to honor its task. I brought the example of Gábor Bódi here because it was the most remarkable. It must be said, however, that during the MSZP and not only during their governance, there has been a similar accumulation of jobs since then. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] within the circles of the MSZP, even if such a record number of State Secretary is indeed the MSZP government...
u2015-06-16-211	Please, just stop.
u2015-06-16-212	It wasn't like it was in Fidesz. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-16-213	Dear Parliament, We now return to the speakers who have asked for a normal word. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik!
u2015-06-16-214	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, Congressman Pócs, allow me to refuse on behalf of Dóra Dúró, who is not here, what you have said here. Believe me, Dóra Dúró is a very talented young woman who is still running for president of the Cultural Committee in full professional support and normality. And the fact that you're bringing in Dora Dúró, the one I'm talking about, is actually the wife of your predecessor Novak, I think that's unworthy. If you get the chance, I don't want you to publicly humiliate yourself, but you might want to apologize to Dóra Dúró personally, by the way. Because just so we're clear, Dóra Dúró is not a member of this Parliament because she is the wife of Ancient Novák, but because [[???Pócs János: Megválasztották????]] 'Cause it's supposed to be here professionally. That's my opinion. Let's talk about what this bill is about. It has been said many times that cost-effectiveness, cheaper state, more rational spending of public funds. These are calling words that, of course, who is the fool who wouldn't support it. Of course, that should be supported. You have said this justification, cost-effectiveness, forward, this must be supported. It's just that you've been saying that for five years now. If you'll excuse me, let's go back a little bit. Presentation of the first economic package on 8 June 2010, Viktor Orbán in the Parliament says: Action 23, Ladies and gentlemen, full telephone, furniture, car purchase, replacement stop, shutdown in the public sector. As far as I know, this would still apply, and that we should not go through what kind of car purchases, furniture purchases and the like, so you insisted on this in 2014. With effect from 1 January, a ban on the acquisition of IT equipment, furniture, technical equipment, machinery and passenger cars shall apply to the budgetary bodies under the government's direction or control. So they even confirmed it in a resolution. What happened next? Let's see what happens next. In 2014, it was not even a month before you announced this real saving effort, and, as I say, it was announced in a government resolution. The Directorate-General for Public Procurement decided to purchase 26 passenger cars worth nearly HUF 200 million, of which there were 24 high-end cars. These stops are still in place, but 2015 doesn't start any different, it starts in a completely similar way than 2014. As far as car purchases are concerned, another 40 vehicles were ordered, of which 32 were the top mid-class vehicles this time, worth a total of HUF 430 million, i.e. cars worth nearly HUF 11 million each. I think that compliance with saving measures would be just as timely at the moment, and it should be said not only in words that we are, how cheap we are, how serious we are about these things, but also in actions, as the example shows. This is not so far from this bill, because if you think that when you reorganized the ministries and created such superministeries, what was the key word? That these responsibilities should be concentrated, that these powers should be concentrated, because from now on they can be carried out in a cheaper, more cost-effective and smaller apparatus, the same task as that carried out under the MSZP administration. After that, what was the result? The fact that there are three times more State Secretarys at the moment, even though the reorganisations have been done. According to the general justification for the legislative amendments before us, you now say that the introduction of this amendment is necessary in order to create a legal background for the government to, by the way, develop a new regulation in which it will regulate the benefits of state leaders. So this is a new regulation. I've just given you a government order, a government decision, and how well they've respected it, but here it's about how you'll be able to regulate the benefits properly. In my opinion, the justification is not logical, as it is currently governed by a government regulation. The limitations of the Government Decree are determined by the proposed amendment law, which currently states, I quote, that the maximum amount of remuneration corresponding to the Secretary of State's salary and the State Secretary's allowances can be obtained. The current legislation therefore limits the amount of payments and the scope of related benefits from above. Thus, the current legislation also provides an opportunity for differentiation. Then I do not understand why, for example, the Secretary of State in his expo is talking about the fact that this now creates the possibility of differentiation. So far, the possibility of differentiation has been created, because the ceiling has been defined and you have been differentiated as you wish. So you don't have to create such a law to differentiate! In reality, the amendment proposal concerns the abolition of the top ceiling as defined in the current legislation. At present, the government can only create a regulation on remuneration in which the maximum benefits cannot exceed the maximum rates laid down by law. The amendment therefore creates the possibility of this in fact, so that a government decree can be made on the basis of which, so to speak, benefits higher than the State Secretary's allowances are legally established. Moreover, for persons who are not subject, for example, to legal and ethical standards that are generally binding on civil servants and government officials. The written justification is therefore not, in my opinion, related to the text of the amendment. The objectives set out in the explanatory memorandum would also be perfectly feasible in the current regulatory environment. [[18.50]] What you are talking about in the explanatory statement, at this moment, even today, could have been done by you; but it has not been implemented. Then why do you need such a law? Apart from the pointlessness of the specific amendment, it is worth considering the argument system that can be read from the proposal on management benefits. The rapporteur wishes to reduce the salaries and benefits of state leaders, government commissioners, prime minister commissioners, prime minister commissioners, ministers and government officials. The reduction of benefits is justified by the fact that it is the government's determined objective, with a noble simplicity. From now on, you'll probably do that, and we'll take your word for it. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you think it is possible to expect quality work for disproportionately low remuneration? Do you think that those who are currently doing their job as we can see around us in everyday life will come to mind if their income is reduced? You're gonna be ashamed and you're gonna do your job better? Or let's look at the other side. How do you think the state leader, who is currently extremely high-quality, will react to the reduction of his income as a reward for his well-done work? If it really is the government's determined aim to reduce expenditure, why do we not see a trace of this in the bill on Hungary's 2016 budget presented the other day? Let's face it, we are talking about an act of pretending to have no real purpose, driven by momentary political gain. In my opinion, those who do their job well must be paid with honor. But if you do your job wrong, you don't have to pay less, you have to fire him as quickly and as easily as possible. Well, that would be the normal state, where every action, when workers or agents are not doing their job in the same way, has consequences. By the way, the previous Fidesz government has created the legal possibility of changing state leaders easily and cost-effectively. Well, why doesn't the government use this tool to bring in such billings, so to speak? On the basis of the above, I am obliged to assume, ladies and gentlemen, that the actual reason for the proposed amendment is, in fact, something quite different. The amendment is not aimed at reducing costs, but, on the contrary, it makes it possible to pay for all kinds of positions without content and real tasks. I am not referring primarily to the heads of government offices or to the head of the central office, but to the opaque, in many cases harmful activities of the various strange, prime minister and ministerial minions, which are still uncontrollable and untraceable. In the absence of knowledge of the actual tasks of each actor, the performance they provide is invaluable and, in the absence of accurate knowledge of the performance provided, the proportionality of the benefits paid to them cannot be established. The legal regulation of the benefit system is a certainty for all those working there that makes the public service career predictable and predictable. If this legal guarantee disappears, subjective differentiation will gain further space, there will be no hope of finding dedicated, competent professionals for the tasks to be performed. Therefore, in my view, the proposal cannot be supported on the basis of the arguments set out above. I do not consider it appropriate for you to submit various legislative proposals here in a series, and we have discussed this today, when the justification is entirely and completely about something other than what is in the law. With this, I feel that they are also trying to deceive not only the opposition representatives, but also the voters who have put opposition representatives here, and they can sit here in Parliament with their trust. After all, you see the opposition representatives as being completely stupid and also the voters who follow these bill proposals and their debate. So it's finally time to speak directly, openly and honestly, not to hide behind the words of the law-altering proposals that are completely different from what you set out in the explanatory statement. So I don't think it's eligible as it is. If you really want to differentiate, or if you really want to create a more cost-effective state, then you still have a lot to do, because in the last five years, you have not been able to do anything about it, let alone cheaper public administration, rather than cheaper, this state that you run, but, in my opinion, it is becoming more expensive and worse. There are positive restructurings that will have the effect of measuring in years, but the question is whether these restructurings will actually fulfill the hopes and promises you have made. It is also possible that no, it is possible that they are on a completely wrong and wrong path. After all, you measure everything to one thing. You still believe that you are two thirds majority in this country; and I must tell you that you are no longer. That is why the vote on the two-thirds laws shows this. So they can't do everything they can now either, they can't even steer in the arrogant, pompous and tall-talking style they could do in the past four years. Bad news: there's three more years, and after three years, they won't be able to do it at all. So it would be good to start making laws that start thinking about solutions that are not the result of your two-thirds pride, but would indeed be laws that are in the interest of Hungary and the Hungarian people and that this country should indeed be a living state, a much cheaper state, a much more cost-effective state and a much better use of public funds. I wish you good work for the next three years, but not with such laws. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-215	Thank you very much. We're gonna have two-minute requests. Congressman Novak, Jobbik!
u2015-06-16-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If, indeed, the pro-government speakers talking about the reduction of public debt really believe this and it is not just some kind of new sham, then let me recommend the free internet to them, as a proposal to reduce the costs in itself. But, above all, the state aspect of this is that a better proposal on the free internet, if it were to be taken to heart and implemented, could boost teleworking, televising, electronic administration. This would reduce car traffic, the unnecessary queue, even the number of redundant employees in certain areas, and could be transferred to more meaningful, productive jobs. I mean, they're not just public interest. There is also a specific private interest that could benefit people directly from the reduction in public rent. After all, if you didn't have to spend so much on travel costs, let's say based on teleworking or telemedicine, then that could be a part of the state's budget cuts alone. I am asking you to consider using the revenue of the advertising tax that we also propose to implement the free internet, because if a few billion forints of advertising tax that mainly affects multi-companies, then this free basic internet service can be implemented as a kind of subjective right for all Hungarians. This could be a continuation of the reduction in costs alone and also by reducing the price of major Internet packages. There is a place to push it down, because in an international comparison, it is amazing how high the charges for Internet use in Hungary are. That is why I ask you not only at the level of the horse-zung, but also at the level of the actual programme, to think on the free internet. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-16-217	Thank you. Happy Congressman István, Fidesz, in two minutes. [[19.00]]
u2015-06-16-218	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Novak! I'm sorry, but I'm guessing you're frustrated that you've never been elected mayor or congressman in a single district in your life. They always put him on a list, got him a vote on the list, and he got in. That's why you may be calling decent mayors and congressmen criminals in an outrageous way. On behalf of all my former mayors and fellow Members, I request this. The people who have been elected mayor or congressman in 5-10-15-20 years, that's because they've done their job with honor. They weren't criminals because you think they were. Because if they were, then obviously the authorities would have acted against them, and the other would have been that they wouldn't have been elected. And that you are here to call the abolition of the great political accumulation: I am sorry, but as I understand it, you have very few Members in the previous Parliament to do so. Obviously, the governing parties were in the majority that they could do that. Since you're so fond of political job accumulation, I would recommend that you look back at your speeches for the past four years and read them because you never talked about being a full-time job there; you talked about having more political posts. Now, please, in Szolnok County, Antal Soós and Lóránt Budai are representatives of the county and local government, and unfortunately, they're taking on a lot more tributes than a small town mayor. That's what you should take care of. And if you're talking about the free internet, you should also talk about when the Internet will be free in the town of Törökszentmiklós, because this was promised by the better management, they just forgot to implement it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-219	I can see the application, but since there is someone from your group in two minutes, Congressman Luke, I would be able to speak to you as a speaker, if you would like to say so. He did that. I would like to ask you with all due respect and inform you that, at the moment, you may have forgotten that there is a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws in the context of the reduction of state management benefits, and not the details of the activities of any representative who is currently a member of the Hungarian Parliament. At this point, it is for Congressman Luke to take the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-220	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I understood and read the warning between the lines. Of course, I had something to say to you about the bill, and this is also related, for example, to what Mr Happy has just said. He set an example in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. Then let's look at a Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county example, which even matches the position of Minister and mayor of a small town mayor, but also with his county assembly representative, because it is enough to mention Szabolcs Fazekas, who was not so long ago as a fish-proof celebrity to the Ministry of Agriculture, and has done a sacrifice thanks to his work as a fish commissioner, who is also the mayor of the small town of Tomajmonostora, and also a member of the county assembly. So it looks like there are miracles after all. But the chairman of the same county assembly is Sándor Kovács, who, before he was incompatible, was a representative of the Karcag municipality, a councillor, a member of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, a delegated member of the Committee of the European Regions, and, by the way, had, I think, two of these activities. Oh, yeah, and he's a former Minister of State Commissioner, just like you were, by the way, a former Minister of State Commissioner. So it is safe to see that these political stockpilings must be eliminated. You said that the Fidesz MEPs had the opportunity to do so because they were more than one in number. Well, that sounds like an opportunity to give birth to a thief category. So, if there was a chance, because they had more opportunities, they were more likely to build jobs; then there is something about what your predecessor Novak is saying, that such a promising opportunity is, after all, a job-acquisition direction towards political crime. Therefore, it must be stressed that the state of affairs has been unsustainable, and it remains untenable that ministers are entrusted with everything for all the said and created reasons, otherwise activities that are provided by public offices, which are otherwise provided by other bodies and provided by other persons. For example, the most shocking role was this fish commissioner, and by the way, I don't know if I managed to achieve it with my own research and questioning, or if they were not satisfied with its activities, but the activities of the Minister's Commissioner have been dealt with in a very short time, and it seems that his appointment has become obsolete. Therefore, the state and - we can agree on this - the ministries need a diet, they need to implement a diet on their own, and otherwise these initiatives can be supported overall. There's a mistake here in the construction mode itself. By the way, the aim is to make the state slimmer, and, by the way, to reduce mega, monstrum and really peak state secretary's war, this is primarily important. It is also particularly important to close the possibilities of ministerial commissioners, because many times it seemed that, in the context of a cadre policy, we can safely say that these positions were misplaced, which, by the way, appeared in the local media in the midst of a great fanfare, because they were successfully announced everywhere that the representative, who had many jobs, was also present as such. So I definitely wanted this to be part of what I had to say. I will also note here on the Margó, since you mentioned Lóránt Budai by name, that Lóránt Budai's only one and actual main job is that he had previously been employed in one of the county health institutions, and therefore my position, knowing the legal situation in which he is in, and as a lawyer I can safely say, is that I believe that he has unlawfully terminated his employment as a hospital director belonging to your party. So many times, I see a political attack behind it. I keep telling myself, in his case, it seems to have worked on some sort of order. Of course, you will have the opportunity to clarify this in the Hungarian courts, in the labour and administrative courts, to the Lóránt Budai, mentioned and referred to by you. I believe that we have explained at least four times, now with my former colleague Novak, five times what we consider to be a political accumulation of jobs. It is now clear to you, and I ask you to consider our position. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-221	Thank you very much. A two-minute speech will be held by Mr István Happy, Fidesz.
u2015-06-16-222	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I have already asked Congressman Luke, if you would refer to me, to speak about what I said, because I did not say what you said. On a permanent basis, I see that you do not understand the words quite well here in Parliament, because I said that we reduced the number of Parliaments, that we were the ones who eliminated the conflicts of interest between mayors and Members of Parliament, that we introduced this conflict of interest rule, because we made up the majority of Parliament in the previous term. So I'm gonna ask you again, if you quote me, you're gonna talk about what I'm talking about. And as far as you're concerned, what you're saying is not unique. I told you yesterday, I told you today, yesterday, their lead speaker in one of the debates was able to say that only settlements with government leadership were given a school, but that is not true, because Törökszentmiklós also received it, and it has a better leader, and then ask him once, in case they find out. I would also like to say that, if it only concerns the full-time job, it is rather strange what you said, because in the previous term there were a lot of fellow Members here who were, by the way, full-time Members, who, by the way, served as mayor without paying. As far as the Ministerial Commissioner is concerned: honourable Member, most of the ministerial commissioners have, by the way, carried out their duties in a social mandate, so have I, and therefore we have not received any benefits. I think, if you're in pain, that there are people who, in addition to the government and the representativeship, are given a task in society, which they carry out with honor, then perhaps you should try to achieve such a position. Maybe if you're elected in a private area, you'll have the opportunity to do the same. But as long as you're on a list, it's hard enough to get to this point, especially since you're only a opposition party in Parliament right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-16-223	Congressman György Szilágyi is next in two minutes, Jobbik.
u2015-06-16-224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I promise you, I really do not wish to respond so much to István Happy, because I understand him; they voted for him - he says - there was no one else here to stop the accumulation of jobs. You voted for it, and you've been so offended since then that you can't be a mayor in addition to the fact that you're a Member of Parliament, that you're constantly showing resentment. Congressman, I understand that this must be a very bad feeling, and it also feels very bad that you chose this, and then you may not be a Member of Parliament by 2018. But one thing's for sure: you can tell us a lot more about who got what list and what list, but don't tell us now that we don't have any MEPs, because remember Tapolca, we already have individual representatives, and believe me, we will. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] Believe me, there will be. What I would like, however, is to return to this bill rather than listen to your grievances and lamentations here because you didn't become mayor. [[19.10]] I would like to ask the Secretary of State not only to speak at the end, when we may not be able to speak, so you can ask for a word at any time and they will give it to you, so I would like you to answer the question - because that is the most important question - why is it good that you want to close the ceiling with this law? So what is the purpose of giving these people more than just the salary of the Secretary of State? What is the technical reason for this? So if you would answer that, I would like to thank you very much for telling me why, with your thinking, in line with the government's goals, it is good to remove this ceiling. I mean, this isn't about differentiation, it's about how much the highest wage you can earn, what your professional solution is, and maybe we'll learn something, how it's gonna work on the road to the goal of a more cost-effective and cheaper state, what important step we're gonna take with this, okay? I'd like to have an answer so we can answer it. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-225	Thank you very much, and also for helping to interpret my work by speaking. However, I would like to address Mr President Novák once again. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Happy István wants to use free internet in Törökszentmiklós. You have asked for this election promise, and I am happy to inform you that if you visit Kossuth Square, you may not be able to do this with the full-time Members of Parliament - I completely understand - but there is free WiFi. In fact, so much so that there is an even better Internet network than here in Parliament, because they do not block, for example, the most read right-wing news portal, as László Kövér here with Kuruc.info. So I'm brave to suggest that you don't have to take that promise out of our hands. Once again, I find it unworthy that my wife, now I'm being called to account, is now the problem of why I didn't win an individual district. Look, Budapest is not really our field, but we are doing everything we can to win there and to satisfy this demand. I would add that Viktor Orbán's wife was not only an individual and listed candidate and was not elected in the colors of Fidesz, but Viktor Orbán himself was never elected in individual colours. So before you make such comments about this, think about who you're insulting. I can no longer comment on the fact that you believe that the authority would have obviously acted against those politicians I call politicians who did this. How would he have acted? I was just saying that it's a legal form of political crime. Do you know what it means? It means the authorities aren't after him because it's legal to steal. This means that you can take full-time salaries from two places without performing your duties, because you do not hold a host hour, you do not attend meetings or debates, I could tell you what it was all about, that you practically didn't perform your duties as mayor or your representatives. Gábor Kubatov may have come in here to press a button, but he hasn't spoken in the last two cycles. That's why I'm saying this is unacceptable. I understand if you think this isn't a political crime. I think it is, and please respect this opinion, because we have higher moral standards than the laws, and yes, if we get there, we also forbid, let's say, a ministerial commissioner to be a Member of Parliament, even if there is someone who may not take up extra fees for this, because we know that there is someone who does, in turn, some kind of allowance, plus car, extra secretary, or even extra payment. In the end, I must also refuse to say that I would have said otherwise in the previous term than I did now. It's not like that. In fact, Jobbik's statutes clearly stated what we thought was necessary to prohibit before the previous term, because, as I said, we came here with a good example in the lead, against all the other parties, we have already been obliged to forbid ourselves, we have lived with self-limitation, and there we have already clearly stated that Parliamentary Members cannot fill any other job, even a side job, because it is a full-time job. I never complained that if you were at the same time, let's say mayor and county congressman, I didn't have a problem with that, because I think the two could fit together. I've already objected to that, and if you took it personally, it's a good thing you took it upon yourself that if you were a Member of Parliament in the previous term, you couldn't fit in with a mayor's office. I also understand the pain and generally the harm that I have caused and caused, even if you have to say that you have finally voted in favour of keeping yourself on the government, because there has been such a level of social outrage because of the unscrupulous accumulations of jobs, even if it was legal that this had to be changed. I brought this up, although the MSZP mentioned the question of political job accumulation at first, because, yes, it does belong here, with the state leaders, we can see that it can still be the largest job miller in recent decades, for example, Gábor Bódi, in a sense still, although, in the wake of several interpellations, written questions, oral questions, it finally looks like he has renounced his various benefits and only kept the largest. But I think it's unacceptable that if someone doesn't take money, but for some reason it's worth staying in these decision-making positions, because, yes, it raises the suspicion of corruption, yes, it could be done fairly by someone who doesn't have, say, a 10-hour job in the Prime Minister's Office. Obviously, he does not perform this task in practice, and this is also a bad message to those working there that small people have to work, and that he is not subject to these rules, which John Lazarus makes compulsory. And we have brought these examples here because you are now asking for permission to regulate this issue in practically a government decree by János Lázár. We cannot vote for him because he has so far demonstrated his various scandals, starting with his political career as an unaccounted record player; he has hired nearly HUF 20 million for travel and other expenses without having even ten speeches in that cycle. I think it is these examples that we cannot vote on, and by joining my fellow Member, Mr Szilágyi György, we ask the Secretary of State to join the debate and not just say things that are untrue when we can only shout out that if there is a blatant injustice or untruth, but yet we can no longer explain our arguments. So I'm asking you to press the button and discuss this question: what are you up to? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-227	Thank you very much. I see that Mr Happy is asking for a two-minute opportunity to speak again, and I will, of course, give it to you. I would like to draw your attention, not restricting the rights of your representatives, not to analyse each other's wives and, in particular, other wives who are not present, because this is not a matter at all for the debate of this law. Accordingly, now, Mr Happy Congressman, in two minutes, please.
u2015-06-16-228	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, And we support the presentation of János Lázár, precisely because it was János Lázár, who did everything in his power to make Parliament a smaller number, and to create conflicts of interest, so we will make the law that a Member of Parliament is incompatible with the mayor's office. I would like to draw the attention of the kind right-wing Members to the fact that I was mayor for 20 years, and the fact is that after 20 years, I wanted to do something else. That doesn't mean I'll ever, if my settlement wants me to, I won't go back there, but it won't depend on them, and it won't depend on any conflict of interest or anything. In my settlement they wanted me to stay there after 20 years, regardless of whether I was a Member of Parliament, because even when I was first elected, they knew - as Congressman Luke said - that I was elected as a Member of Parliament in the spring and mayor in the autumn. So it doesn't have anything to do with it. I think that the law we're talking about here is a good law, it's important, and the Fidesz faction will definitely support it. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-16-229	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[???Kis Miklós Zsolt: Nem.???]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. [[19.20]] I would like to inform you that you have applied for a statement after the agenda, Mr President Novak, Jobbik. I give you five minutes. Here you go.
u2015-06-16-230	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The title of my speech after the agenda is that in our initiative to remove the Soviet monument in Szabadság tér, Mayor István Tarlós turned to the government. This is where the case is now, but let us recall where it began, as from spring 2004 it was necessary to protect this Soviet communist monument from the people's wrath with cordons, which was supposed to be used with forbidden symbols of authoritarianism. This is for the benefit and honour of the Hungarian people. But how did we get here? Allow me first of all to present the manifesto of those demanding the removal of the Soviet monument in Szabadság tér from 2004. In the place of the Budapest Liberty Square and its surroundings, the second one stood for a hundred years. It was built by Joseph, which was also called Pest Bastille. In this area Lajos Batthyány, Hungary's first freely elected prime minister, was executed, Lajos Kossuth, Mihály Táncsics, Dániel Rádi, and many other Hungarian revolutionaries and freedom fighters were imprisoned or executed here. This square is named Liberty in their memory, even the surrounding streets bear the names of the Hungarian martyrs. In 1897, the ill-famous building complex was demolished and the current environment was developed. In 1920 a Trianon memorial group was set up in memory of the nation's greatest tragedy, the two-thirds loss of country. In 1928 the monument group was completed with the artifact and country flag, whose pedestals brought land from the county of Nagy-Hungary, the land of Petőfi, the birthplace of Kossuth, as well as the sites of our great historical battles - Muhi puszta, Csele-patak, the battlefields of the 1848 freedom fight - and the burial sites of the Hungarian heroes who died in the First World War - Galicia, Doberdo. Our people have established a national memorial site in Freedom Square. In 1945, the invading Soviet troops destroyed this group of monuments, or national monuments, and built their own obelisk in its place. Thirteen years after the change of regime, in connection with the reconstruction of the square, all the good people rightly believed that everything would finally be in its place; the Soviet soldiers went to the cemetery and the Hungarian historical monuments returned to Szabadság tér. But that's not what happened! Without asking the nation, the political leaders of Hungary decided to rebuild the Soviet heroic monument in its full glory instead of restoring the original state of the Szabadság tér. Against this terrible humiliation, of course, several civil society organisations raised their voices; they organised a protest against reconstruction twice, and they sent protest submissions to important public figures - but all of them were deaf. In fact, the one on the memorial, the Btk. 269/B. Of course, the police and the D.A.'s office rejected it. On top of all this, on the monument the inscription "Glory to the Liberating Soviet Heroes" is decorated in the name of all Hungarians. To the glory of the Soviet Imperial army that occupied our country and occupied our country for half a century, its soldiers raped our women, our daughters and hundreds of thousands of our countrymen on a raspberry robot, a large part of whom died in inhumane conditions in the camps of the Soviet Union, and when our people rebelled against the unbearable regime they dictated in 1956, our freedom struggle was brutally crushed. We feel that Parliament's parties have thus granted the final coup d'état of grace to the whole change of regime, which was based on the fact that we said that the event, which has been referred to as the Soviet liberation since 45, was actually an occupation. Dear Parliament, This was formulated on 4 April 2004 with György Budaházy and many of the signatories, including Mária Wittner. 56 freedom fighter, but here in the National Assembly our amendment proposal for a decision on the reconstruction of Kossuth tér was rejected in 2011 to remove the Soviet monument in Szabadság tér. Therefore, György Budaházy organized civil society organisations and Jobbik also turned to the mayor, as the Russian-Hungarian military tomb agreement provides an opportunity to relocate the monument, but it is necessary to make use of it. Mr. Mayor's Chief of Staff has welcomed us, and it is also known that the transfer, if agreed, can be carried out unilaterally, even immediately, or two years after the announcement of the intention, in accordance with the treaty of war. The 60th anniversary of the War of Independence and Revolution is approaching on 23 October 2016, and we believe that this issue must be settled. Since the monument to the German occupation was built, this shows even more absurd double standards. One occupation was occupation and the other was liberation? It's untenable, let's change that. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-16-231	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches after the agenda, to be more precise, have come to an end. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting tomorrow at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day closed, good evening, good night, everyone. Goodbye. [[Meeting ended at 7:24 p.m.]]
