u2015-03-17-0	Dear Parliament, The 12th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today's speech before the agenda has been tabled by Mrs Bernadett Szél, the LMP Group. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-17-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to talk about the solar beam tax, i.e. the taxation of the solar panels introduced by Fidesz-KDNP in front of my agenda, and I am going to tell you what LMP can and will do in such a situation. I would like to point out that this is a deliberate and qualified case of environmental damage; what the government is doing is precisely this category, the deliberate and qualified case of environmental damage. The Orbán government is the 21st. Indeed, it believes that solar cells are an environmentally harmful technology, which is more dangerous than an acid battery or a diesel engine generator, because at present they have a higher environmental tax than the two mentioned above, and you are trying to protect society from the dangers of solar panels. I've been asked by a number of people why Fidesz did this. At first, I thought, as many others did, that you did not want to do this, but somehow you did, given that you do not have a professional apparatus for the government, because you have abolished the entire system of environmental institutions, there is no ministry, there is only one Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh who is sitting here with us, and I am sure he will respond with great force to my concerns, but the fact is that you have eliminated everything you can hope for professional help from. Unfortunately, it wasn't that you misspelled it. That's exactly what you thought. Now, there may be one reason why you did this, that you were stuck in the 1950s, that in the period before the green revolution, the Fidesz government remained, and that is when you are trying to politicalize here in the 21st century. In the century. That's what you see in your legislative experiments. The fact that you have no idea what a green tax is for, what a product fee system is for. It is designed to guide consumers, to enable consumers to decide which products to choose, and to choose those that are cheaper because they have a less harmful effect on the environment. In this country we're living in, there's the same amount of product charges on the reprint paper they make using paper waste and on the chlorine-bleached copy paper. Now, how does the consumer decide? How can the Hungarian citizen decide which one to choose, if both are the same price? But it's the same with the detergent. There's natural, biodegradable, and there's synthetic - they both tax the same. It is clear, therefore, that you are not wrong, because this is what you have undertaken; and that you are going in this direction consciously, it is also quite clear that you are not taxing these products in the way you should be, it is a net collection of funds in Hungarian. Your only goal is to make sure that the citizen pays as much as possible, and in the meantime, you don't care what's left of them. You treat people in a robbing pace, and you treat the Hungarian land in a robbing tempo, and you treat Globus, the Earth in general, as well as the planet in general. The fact is that you guys are out of your minds, because I was really thinking about what you're thinking: instead of solar cells, you need to power with a diesel engine generator, who doesn't get the wired power? Because there's less tax on it than there is on the solar panel. According to the legislative text, when we read it carefully, we see that your aim is to prevent or reduce pollution, so that we can manage natural resources in a cost-effective way. What kind of pollution do you want to protect the Hungarian people from here? There would be some credibility to what you're saying if there was a separate fund in which, say, the tax they collect from the solar beam, solar panels and generators used in wind power plants and heat pumps would go into a separate fund, and we would try to finance it - but what? In practice, the majority of the solar panels marketed in Hungary consist of silicon and aluminium, completely recyclable, without any special effort. On the other hand, there is, say, the nuclear power plant, for which there is no product charge. I tested you, and last week, I put a bill in committee. First, in one bill, I asked you to abolish these insane taxes, in the other bill, after you voted off the original and made it clear that you did not wish to abolish it, I also asked you to tax nuclear energy, because there is indeed an environmental problem, and for thousands of years we will take care of the environment by leaving a spent fuel behind, which we have no idea what is going to happen to it. At present, in the 30-year operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, 240 billion have been gathered on paper into the Central Nuclear Fund, about 1600 billion forints would be needed in order to permanently dispose of these waste, according to an academic study. But you don't care, you don't tax the nuclear power plant, as opposed to solar panels, wind power, earth heat, they all tax them. So I think you guys don't know what you're doing for a long time, but in a situation like this, as an opposition representative, as a Green Representative, I have an obligation to remind you from time to time where you're going forward. I would like to represent common sense in the Hungarian Parliament [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So I'm gonna put in the bill from month to month that I submitted the other day, and if I have to, for three years. [[The president's ringing again.]] That's what I'm gonna do, because I'm the 21st. I'm political in the century, as opposed to you who stayed in the 1950s.
u2015-03-17-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-17-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I respect your commitment to the environment, nature protection and sustainability, both of you and LMP, even if I have doubts and even have a debate about the feasibility of your ideas in terms of its instruments. But I'm asking you to listen to our argument system with this openness. The product fee tax, as you call it, is not its purpose, and it provides proof of this in connection with the obliteration of the nuclear power plant, which you are thinking of, because the manufacturer is responsible for both EU legislation and domestic transplant legislation. On this basis, Hungary, as all the Member States of the European Union, has an obligation to collect and exploit electrical and electronic equipment, namely that the European Union puts consumer electronics products in the same product range as solar cells. It sets the same product scope, so it sets out collection and recovery rates which are quite strict: 45 per cent of the products sold should be collected by 2016 and 65 per cent by 2019. 75% of the electrical and electronic equipment that has become waste must be recovered and 65% processed. If you had read the product fee preamble, it would have been stated that in addition to what you mentioned, [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: How do you know what I read?]] In order to contribute to the prevention of pollution, this is also proven by the product fee, which is what we do in the case of extra taxes on artificial flowers, for example. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Let's not talk about artificial flowers.]] or, in the case of nylon carrier bags, with the extra product fee, we reduce this, but the aim of the legislation is also to create financial resources. The only question now is, who's gonna pay? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the elements that had become waste - by the way, you did not object at the time in the debate; I am convinced that, in relation to photovoltaic elements, they were thinking of the elements of digital cameras and not of solar panels, so they did not resent it at the time in the debate. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That was a great trick, thank you. Dr. János Fónagy to Bernadett: Quack, quack, quack, quack!]] - who pays for the recycling of these products. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] [[9.10]] In all places around the world, there is a product charge where recycling of waste is taken seriously, and in this respect it is completely indifferent whether or not a product sees environmentally friendly activities during its life cycle. I could give you examples. For example, we take the solar element out of this product range and the acidic battery that can be in an electric car, then do not; or the tyre of the electric car. Shouldn't we charge a product fee for that? That's just as bad as it's gonna be. Or a diving pump that can be used for geothermal power plants, geothermal heating and can be used in mineral water bottling plants. Then let's put it on one side, not the other. Your suggestion is that if we don't throw this out... otherwise I'm going to stress it once again, it's everywhere in the world. Let me give you the Czech example: EUR 0.34 per kilogram in the Czech Republic, similar to the Hungarian prize, where it is otherwise called a re-use fee or recycling fee. You are saying that the one who will never be equipped with solar panels will pay for the recycling of this product, which is our EU obligation, whose house will never be equipped with solar panels, is the one who will never install heat pump heating. It would spread this obligation to others. Otherwise, the government supports renewable energy, as the EU programmes provide HUF 300 billion for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources in the Environment and Energy Efficiency Operational Programme, with loans in GINOP [[The president's ringing the bell.]] for this purpose, and also in GINOP from another source, some 70 billion serve this purpose. Thank you for listening carefully. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]]
u2015-03-17-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Congresswoman, I would like to inform you that Mr Secretary of State has listened to Congresswoman, I think with due respect. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, from the KDNP Group, also spoke before the agenda: we are facing new challenges. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we can agree on at least one thing, whatever our party-standing fellow Member may be; I would be happy if, of course, there were many things, but I am also sure that the success of Hungarian sport is clear, and I think that in the success of Hungarian swimmers and Hungarian water polo players no one has any problem, and we are all even happy about these successes. Hungary is facing a new opportunity in terms of sport, and it will be able to host the biggest sporting event in Hungary's history in 2017. As is well known, Mexico would have organized the 2017 World Water Championship, but Mexico withdrew, and Hungary applied for this prestigious world event and sporting event. I would like to thank the five faction leaders and the leaders of the groups for their attitude, because we had a discussion on this matter, and they were all open and supportive. This is a huge enterprise, a new challenge for Hungary. The only way to succeed is to do the construction works and organizational tasks ahead with agreement and cooperation. Obviously, we have all seen construction projects, and we know that if a person completes the construction after the deadline, it is not joyful to do so by deadline, it is joyful, but we have now applied for the 2021 World Water Championship, and we are trying four years earlier to complete this task so that we can settle this event, so that we can do it before four years. It's a huge challenge in organization, construction, licensing, and much more. Thank you again for the support of the factions and for your attitude on behalf of KDNP. We know that the Hungarian swimmers in the national treasury have greatly enriched the so-called precious metal stock. In the history of the Olympics, our swimmers have won 25 gold coins, 23 silver, 18 bronze, 24 gold coins, 13 silver, 25 bronze medals, and so far the Hungarian swimmers have enriched our national treasure store with 83 gold medals, 74 silver and 55 bronze medals. So far, our water polo players have won 9 gold, 3 silver, 3 bronze medals in the history of the Olympics, 5 gold, 7 silver and 2 bronze, and 14 European championships, 11 silver medals in the European Championships, and 10 bronze medals in the 10 times. I think that this should fill us all with self-esteem, we are proud of Hungarian swimmers, we are proud of Hungarian athletes, Hungarian water polo players. Obviously, Hungary could not be taken into account if such performance were not behind it. One thing is certain, however, that the Hungarian government is also a sport-friendly government, and everyone involved in this goal is in the triple target system, which we have defined as all Hungarian children playing sports, bringing as many world events to Hungary as possible, and building up the necessary swimming pools, facilities, sports halls and other facilities where people can play sports, this triple target system has been a line leader for the last four years, and I feel that the results speak for themselves. The fact is that we have also added to the development of swimming sports and the development of water polo sports, which has led to the launch of the future champions' programme in swimming sports, and the program for all children to learn how to swim with government support. As a result, there are 1,800 more certified athletes in the swimming sport, looking at the work of the last two years. I think that this is a huge number, and we have to work on it, so that this number will grow, that all Hungarian children will really learn to swim safely, and we hope that, as a result, the soaking potential will be greater for the top sport, and that as many Olympic champions, world champions and European champions as possible will be able to be trained by Hungarian coaches and Hungarian swim coaches, and I hope that from Alfréd Hajós to Krisztina Egerszegi Long Katinka will grow many, many excellent swimmers for the joy of all of us together and obviously for the further aging of Hungarian sports. So, once again, thank you very much to all of you, the group leaders, for their first contribution, and I hope that we will be able to hold a successful World Water Championship in 2017. I would like to ask for your further support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Martin Gyöngyösi applauds.]]
u2015-03-17-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament also applied for a speech before the agenda:. The successful struggle of the local government in Lakitelek with the title of fair banking services. I give you the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-03-17-7	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On 25 February, a precedent was given in the dispute between the Municipality of Lakitelek and the Bank of Trade and Credit. That is what I wish to inform the Parliament. Laws on fair banking are already in force last year. In this context, the creditor must provide a much more detailed, understandable explanation of any expected interest risk before the conclusion of the contract. One-sided increases in interest rates and fees will not be possible for contracts with a maturity of less than three years, while interest rates will be reviewed every three years for longer periods. For the client, banks can only change interest rates, interest rates, costs and fees, but not other terms. If the consumer does not wish to accept a change in interest or interest rate, he may terminate the contract free of charge in addition to the payment of the total debt. These consumer protection laws could only be implemented through a very tough multi-annual economic policy fight. In this struggle, the government and Parliamentary Members supporting decent banking have found strong allies in many municipalities, civil society organisations taking on the cause of indebted persons, as well as in the legal, economic and financial human intelligentsia, recognizing the dangers of a debt trap. Let us not forget that financial institution workers who performed their work honestly and faced the complaints of debtors daily were not, in substance, beneficiaries of unfair banking procedures. [[9.20]] The municipality of Lakitelek has been involved in a similar fight since the summer of 2011 and the municipalities do not qualify as consumers under the law, so the favourable legal changes in recent years do not apply to municipalities. However, the municipality of Lakitelek did not accept that the Commercial and Credit Bank, which loaned to the Lakitelek Water Facility Company, had raised interest on three occasions unduly and unilaterally, in breach of the contract between the bank and the borrower. The municipality has given a ready-to-pay guarantee in this case and, despite its objection, the bank regularly deducted significantly more than the fixed amount from the municipality's account. In 2011 and 2012, the municipality asked for a total of nine investigations by the relevant public bodies, namely the Hungarian Competition Authority, the State Audit Office and the State Audit Office of Financial Institutions, to be carried out unsuccessfully in this case. Five times the municipality, and I myself, the parliamentary representative of this region, including Lakitelek, have turned to the competent authorities on four occasions, unfortunately without success. Zoltán Felföldi did not give up the fight, and in 2012 he went to the court for redress. First, the Metropolitan Court gave the City of Lakitelek the truth, and on 25 February 2015, the Metropolitan Court confirmed this decision. The court of second instance ordered the bank to repay almost HUF 30 million, as well as to pay the interest on late payment and to reimburse the litigation costs. In addition, for the future, he banned the bank from raising the increased interest rate, which meant an additional HUF 34 million, i.e. a total of HUF 64 million will be returned to or stay with the municipality on the basis of the court's decision. This extraordinary revenue will cover the reduction of local taxes and the improvement of social care in Lakitelek. Thank you for that. Zoltán Felföldi was mayor and the municipal representatives and lawyers who supported him. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-17-8	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-17-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, Congressman! First of all, I would like to say that, according to the government, what the local government has done is exemplary when it stands up for its own right. Zoltán Felföldi, former mayor, did well to see that the municipality could be right and that this right should be enforced by the authorities. The years of struggle have brought fruit. Not only was the municipality of Lakitelek right, but the town's cash register is growing by 64 million forints. Indeed, voters living there can enjoy such a success. I would like to say that the local government's attitude and thinking are spookily similar to the government's thinking, because when millions of people and foreign exchange credit contracts were tried by the government to save and win the people's truth, then the activities of the local government and the government show a very similar attitude, and in fact the results are similar, because in July 2014 the government finally achieved that as a result of the Curia's legal unit decision it was possible to legislate and that people were right in these laws. It is true that what the government has done and the laws that the Parliament has adopted affect far more people than the success of the local government in Lakitelek, however, it must be remarkable, exemplary and exemplary in the country for communities, local governments, civil society organisations, and even businesses, that they can be right and true if they can stand up for it, are well prepared and can legally support their right. I believe that the local government in Lakitelek is not only a financial winner of this trial, but also a moral winner and winner. Once again, congratulations to the council. And I think that there should be a very important message for people other than consumers who are opposed to the bank, including entrepreneurs and municipalities, that they should also go on a judicial journey for their right. Once again, the activities of the municipality are remarkable and exemplary. I congratulate you on your results and wish you similar success for the further work of the inhabitants of the settlement, as well as the parliamentary representative of the settlement, Sándor Lezsák. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-10	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Lukács, MSZP Group also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The dominos of the fidesz bank scandal fall in one by one. First, István Töröcskei's Széchenyi Bank, who was the head of the Government Debt Management Centre, fell for you, and then the Fidesz DRB banking group from the savings cooperatives fell in, and lastly the Quaestor, the leader of which is Csaba Tarsoly, one of Fidesz's most well-known economic backgrounds, the Prime Minister's confidant, is a very good friend of Minister Szijjártó. He runs this fallen company and is still walking around Hungary smiling, and fewer and fewer Hungarians understand why the young man is still at large. Fidesz background people have been taking money from the common register, and now they're after people's savings in the bank. I don't know if Mr Matolcsy was placed at the head of the MNB to allow this, who, by the way, has been missing for three weeks and doesn't speak, but he has authorized Quaestor to issue a $60 billion bond with 10 million stock capital and then to make another $150 billion bond issue illegally. Ladies and gentlemen, this is your responsibility. I hold in my hand a decree of 8 April 2010, in which the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions forbids the Quaestor Group to inform its customers as if they were a state guarantee behind their products. A few days later, your government came to power, and then for five years the Quaestor did this uncontrolled, and despite this order, you didn't say a word to them. That's how they could steal all this money. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen. The Hungarian National Bank has a hundred billion dollars in profits. The Hungarian National Bank has hundreds of billions of dollars in profits, and this is the profit that must be used to compensate anyone who is stuck in Quaestor. It is not unnecessary to buy real estate, it is not to buy paintings, it is not to launch training programmes for nothing, but to compensate them for it. I know you say the National Bank is independent, but ladies and gentlemen, the representation of the Hungarian people is the Hungarian Parliament, and if the Hungarian Parliament wants to exercise ownership rights on behalf of the Hungarian people, the bank must also pay attention to that. By the way, we're asking the D.A. today to bring an action against supervision in the public interest, because if you're gonna find your responsibility in it, the state needs to be good for the money that's stuck. We're asking the D.A. to start this today. [[9.30]] We also need to find out, ladies and gentlemen, if the news is true that before the scandals started, more people have been able to extract their money from these companies. Because if that was the case, there is a suspicion that someone has done so, then according to the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted in 2012, he can be sentenced to three years in prison. Abuse of inside information means someone got a tip in time, a good tip, and they were able to save their money before the scandal started. Our question is whether there are those who took their money before these scandals, before the money was blocked. Who are they? How much money did they take out, and when did they take out these money? The question is, then, whether there were any privileged persons who had been informed of the steps of authority before the financial lockdown, and were tired of the till before that, took out their money, and the others and the ordinary people were stuck with their money. You have to answer that, these answers are not just for us, but for the people too, because society is slowly treating it as an open secret that there are such people. There are such officials, and there are privileged ones who were able to withdraw their money before the scandal broke out. We want to know how many people in the two weeks before February 23, who took and how much money they took from here. How many, who and how much money - this has to go public. Ladies and Gentlemen, We want to help people, we want to help the 200,000 people whose little money, their last savings, is left in this bank. We see the Prime Minister worrying about football in Győr instead of worrying about the 200,000 people who are standing there without their money and don't know what's going to happen to their future. We don't need to save the football in Győr, but we need to save the 200,000 little people whose money is stuck! The Hungarian Socialist Party has established an interest representation forum, with thousands of people joining it in one day. We will help the victims, and we can primarily provide legal assistance. We've opened our offices, so look for us. We're gonna stand next to the people, and we're gonna help you make sure that this fidesz scandal, this fidesz theft, doesn't take away the last of your money. We'll always make sure these fidesz thieves get their punishment. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-12	Thank you, Congressman Luke. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2015-03-17-13	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The noise of the MSZP is quite incomprehensible. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What noise? Further interventions from the lines of the MSZP.]] It's probably just a saying, and it's the saying that the best defense is an attack. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The MSZP chose the attack as a defense against the broker scandal. The party who did nothing under his rule chose the attack. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No, it's not true!]] In order for the financial system to be transparent in Hungary, the financial system in Hungary, financial service providers should be controlled, and people who abuse these opportunities will be punished. Therefore, the MSZP, before making accusations, must answer the following questions - Zoltán Gőgös would be better off to respond - that in 2002, when you took over the administration, there was supervision of financial institutions every two years. I ask why this legislation had to be changed in 2004. Answer me! [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Why did you have to change it? In 2004, why did you have to make legislation that was in force until 2009 that, in essence, investor service providers do not need to be checked? [[Zoltán Lukács: That's not true.]] And if you were in government to this day, that would be the case, only at the request and pressure of the IMF. [[Zoltán Grimlock keeps interrupting.]] Of course, now the MSZP wants to help, right, when it's in opposition, and they're sitting here as a dwarf faction, and they need a lot of people behind them. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: There will be.]] But I'm asking you, in 2004, what your financial organization did, why didn't you tell people that you shouldn't take on currency loans from millions of people? [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't talk about that.]] Don't take on foreign exchange loans - but that's what I'm talking about, because it was your financial control system! Not only have you prevented people from getting into trouble, you are an entire country, but you have been encouraged and helped. [[Zoltán Lukács: András, you are a decent man.]] Or it should be answered that he mentioned here that the President of the National Bank of Hungary, András Simor, is the President of the National Bank of Hungary. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Where is he now?]] who has lost 25 billion forints, 25 billion forints, and you are proud of that. [[Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP]] Yes, the current National Bank, that's right, is profitable. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Tell me why András Simor, President of the Hungarian National Bank, put his investment in an offshore company! [[Zoltán Lukács: Madness.]] He took his investment to the offshore company and abroad. What was the reason for that? I'll tell you why. Now, he had inside information about how the financial system and the financial service providers operate in Hungary. He did. [[Zoltán Lukács and Zoltán Gőgös intervene.]] And he saw that his own money was not safe in Hungary. Or answer the question as to why the audit of Buda-Cash took place in the light of the outcome of the 2010 parliamentary elections. Why? Why not before and after? [[Zoltán Grimlock: Károly Szász!]] There's consciousness in this, too. The awareness is that every five years you have to monitor it according to your system, and the next check is after the 2014 elections. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Disaster.]] If Fidesz hadn't won now, in 2014, then this filth that happened to these companies wouldn't have been revealed to this day. [[László Kiss: Then it wouldn't have happened.]] They would have continued in the same way, and that's what the leaders of Buda-Cash were playing for. I'll tell you a question about the Quaestor. Guess what, the Fidesz government didn't build the first stadium. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] Believe it or not, the MSZP government had Quaestor build the first stadium. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] In Győr, and not for 12 billion, a wonderful stadium, but with a loan of HUF 17 billion, which the Hungarian Development Bank gave to Quaestor. When you talk about Quaestor, Fidesz relations, you account for this 17 billion. [[Zoltán Lukács: Hundreds of billions of HUF. Interview from the lines of the MSZP: You did not answer the question.]] which he received as a loan from the Hungarian Development Bank! Besides, they didn't ask for a mortgage on the stadium. This had to be done by the Fidesz government in 2012. Gentlemen. You have facilitated fraud, corruption, and now it's over. Take note of that. [[Zoltán Pride: What's the end of it?]] It was discovered by the Fidesz government, and the Fidesz government will end what they did. This decade of financial corruption that you have created in this country has come to an end. And Fidesz did this. Thank you. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches. Zoltán Lukács: Clap your hands for the last time, then go to talk.]]
u2015-03-17-14	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State Tallai. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr Tamás Sneider, Vice-President, also spoke before the agenda: a collection of signatures for pensions, peace, border guards and free internet. You have the floor, Congressman, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-03-17-15	Mr President, Dear House, The Jobbik Hungary Movement launched a signature collection action last week on four issues. Four issues that we believe can be achieved in the next three years, preferably as soon as possible, since these are not one case of burning issues. Among the walls of this house, I have repeatedly said that we want men to retire in Hungary after 40 years of employment. If they had this opportunity, it would be what some of the women had already been given. It is true that only part of it, since in 2011, when the law was passed, was adopted in a completely different way than Fidesz promised women at the time. This is obviously why many opposition representatives abstained at the time, since only half and a third of the women, to whom Fidesz promised to retire after 40 years of employment. Instead, he only made it possible in a different way, and only for some of them. Well, the first question is whether, after 40 years of employment, men can be at home with their families and loved ones, whether they can go to a park with them, into the garden, play with their grandchildren in peace and quiet. We have never received an answer to that question, whether you would do so. In fact, we got a cynical answer that kept avoiding the question. The expected age of a 30-year-old Hungarian is 33.5 years. In other words, it is not statistically worth the pension, so it is safe to say that the average man in Hungary is working to death today. But we didn't get the answer to how hard it was to do a job at the age of 55-60. It's almost impossible. And whether it makes sense, even then, to continue to keep these older people in public work or in other areas. [[9.40]] Or we didn't even get the answer that if these 55-60 or 60-something-year-olds retire, they could replace younger workers and reduce unemployment. The other important question is very simple, and it is about providing free internet services to all Hungarian citizens in Hungary. We believe that the request is very simple: this would make a lot of good out of virtually a few, because the money that should be spent on such a system would be returned several times by boosting telework in Hungary, televising, electronic administration, and it would be even possible for an average Hungarian person to find work with the help of the Internet. Today, this is practically a clear requirement for everyone, and I think that is not even a question, and unfortunately Hungary is the third worst country in the line that shows where we are in the area of Internet use. The third question is whether you agree that in Ukraine, if the fight widens, Hungarian soldiers should not participate. I can very simply translate this question, ladies and gentlemen: do any of you want your child to be out in the Don turn after your great-grandfather? Because that's what the story is. I feel that my two children will have nothing to do with the Don turn after their great-grandfather, the story is so simple, and I think that much of Hungary's population thinks this way, and we must declare it to everyone, whether it is the great power or the middle power, who wants to drag us into any war conflict in the coming period. And finally, the fourth question that we are asking is nothing more than whether we want a border guard on the border of Hungary. Hungary, I would say, is the only European country with a Schengen border that does not have a border guard. This is a comedy situation in itself, and we do not have border guards against countries where hundreds of thousands of people were slaughtered in the civil war a few years ago, and thousands, tens of thousands, in the other country, have just been slaughtered in recent days, weeks, months. I believe that in such a geopolitical situation, the minimum is to have a border guard for Hungary, and we would like you to restore this, which has been abolished in the previous period. These questions, we believe, are now topical policy issues in a significant part, questions on which we expect, by collecting hundreds of thousands or millions of signatures, you will respond positively, and you will not have to wait three years for other parties in government positions - if any, Jobbik - to implement these ideas. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Please consider this when we put hundreds of thousands of signatures on this issue. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-16	Thank you, Vice President Sneider. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2015-03-17-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I must admit, I was quite surprised that Congressman Sneider would be speaking before the agenda on behalf of Jobbik. After all, Congressman Sneider is now attached to the Autumn Speech of Jobbik, who has told us the lines that we suspected were never the real goals for Jobbik, only political marketing is important, and therefore they can change style at any time. [[Dóra Dúró: You should too! You could use a change of style.]] Well, at least now it turns out it's a self-confessed policy. Let me read, Mr Sneider, your own words, which completely discredit you for the last five minutes, since you say that you do not do what you say out of conviction, but do the opposite in many cases. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When I talk about how to communicate, the elderly are here again - because you have repeatedly talked about pensioners. Although I don't know exactly how much credit should be given to your words after the following sentences, which you said yourself. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Talk about the point.]] Without them, there can no longer be a vote, because there are so few middle-age and young people, and fewer young people are going to vote, so that the pensioner group alone can form a government. [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] Well - and now Mr. Sneider's communications councils are coming - to address them, you have to be a nice, cute child - which you brought about in the last few minutes - (Tamás Sneider intervenes) Because we are extremely strong in Eastern Hungary, but now we are here, too, on Transdanubia, in a lot of places, very much came up beyond the Danube, thank God, because Gypsy criminals are coming and killing old people, we can now say this very well. The old man votes for us to protect him. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Tamás Sneider: Unfortunately! I just need to put in a few words...]] And here goes on to Mr. Sneider's communication advice: "What does an old man want?" Peace, peace. That's what we have to suggest. You were also the executive of this communication council in the past few minutes. And that's why you shouldn't seem very violent, because then you say, "Oh, no, that's not gonna be any better than the gypsy criminal. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So you're saying that you're thinking the same thing as before. [[Dóra Dúró: That's right!]] Other than that, they're doing a cute child communication, or a cute campaign, which suggests peace and quiet, doesn't want to be violent. As many of you came in four and a half years ago in uniform, who were still Members, but now they want to make this peace, peace, and not violence look like a representative. Just, you know, honourable Member, when you stand up and speak for the elderly in Parliament, everyone will remember these sentences. [[Tamás Sneider: That we want to protect the elderly! Good.]] In which you acknowledge that you think the same thing about Gypsy crime, you do not consider your real affairs to be important to pensioners, just because you cannot win an election without them, so you suggest to your partymates and to yourself that they make it look like they're not a threat to old people, but as if they were their children or grandchildren, and that they can gain their trust, but regardless, you think the same thing as you say the term Gypsy crime for many times now. Honourable Congressman, The fact that you did not vote for women to retire after 40 years of employment, and this was justified by the fact that the years spent raising children - I took that out of your speech - are, of course, taken into account. [[Tamás Sneider: Nobody said that! Well, at least don't lie.]] So this kind of rejection doesn't exist. And the fact that anyone who doesn't work gets a 40-year preferential pension, I think it's a highly controversial claim. So you're still in debt. [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] for the 133,000 people or perhaps more, for the ladies who have already retired as a result of this discount [[Tamás Sneider: And they paid the pension contribution afterwards!]] why that bill was not voted on at 7:30 p.m. on 20 December 2010. [[Dóra Dúró: Because you voted off our amendments!]] As far as border guards are concerned, honourable Member, you know very well that border guards are carried out by the police and equipped with much more modern technical equipment than the border guards of the time four to five years ago. A total of 46,000 people today are assigned to carry out border police tasks [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] and because of the border surveillance tasks that the police carry out (Tamás Sneider intervenes.) , now Schengen needs to be met under stricter conditions, so the regulations on border surveillance are stricter today than they were 5-6 years ago. And what we have to say is, if illegal immigrants can't be stopped at the border by the police serving there, come on in. So, according to stricter legal requirements, the border guards are equipped with more modern technical equipment, but that means that you have forgotten the Gendarmerie as your previous proposal. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Looks like that wasn't cute enough for their cute campaign. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-18	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. It follows the discussion of the legislative committee's report to the Act amending certain laws relating to the restructuring of the regional administration system, adopted by the Parliament on 3 March 2015, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/3115/18. Letter from the President of the Republic No T/3115/19. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report of the Legislative Committee T/3115/21. can also be found on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. For these, a total of 15 minutes is available. First, I will give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee, in no more than eight minutes. [[9.50]]
u2015-03-17-19	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is T/3115. The President of the Republic renegotiated the bill on the amendment of certain laws sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic and relating to the restructuring of the territorial administration system, and submitted a report to it in favour of 17 yes and 6 no. The committee closed without proposing an amendment to the proposal for a regulation. The committee agreed with the Government's position and maintained the bill in its unchanged form, given that the President of the Republic did not object to significant and relevant parts of the legislation, but to a point of the law, and raised an objection to the citation of the notice precisely. The government and we also see that, under the law on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major importance, this fits into the original concept of the law, so that this does not need to be changed. I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that the guarantee rules remain as set out in the Act on the Rules of Administrative Procedure and Service, and I am thinking of the right to be notified or the right to appeal. On this basis, I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-20	Thank you, Congressman. The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum time frame of 7 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-03-17-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I was also surprised to hear the opinion of my fellow Member, Imre Vas, at committee meetings, that the President of the Republic actually sent the bill back to Parliament because of minor issues. I do not really know where to put it, my honourable fellow Member, because if a provision, according to the President of the Republic, violates the right to a fair trial and redress, then I do not know how and on what basis you claim that this is irrelevant. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, that you, if the President of the Republic has not turned to the Constitutional Court, but has sent this question back here for consideration, then at least to your President of the Republic, who came out of your parliamentary bench, who was before your Speaker, why not consider his opinion. This debate was also largely the subject of the Legislative Committee's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, Our conviction was and is that the President of the Republic did not do the right thing when he sent this proposal back to Parliament. It is not because this proposal or this law would be good, but because if the President of the Republic considers, in the same way as our position, that the individual sections and parts of this proposal violate the right to a fair trial, or violate the right to an appeal, it should not be sent back to Parliament, but to the Constitutional Court, because it is certainly, if these rights are violated, then the law, as it is, is unconstitutional. We regret that the President of the Republic is not playing it with us for the first time now, because it is easier to send it back here, and then the majority of Parliament will approve it, or approve it with a small amendment, as is usually the case, as it does the majority of Parliament, its principle friends, that the Constitutional Court may decide otherwise on the bill. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is shameful that they are not even willing to consider these proposals in substance. We had a debate with Mr State Secretary at the time, and I am only quoting this briefly because this is essentially linked to another bill, which was also sent back by the President of the Republic, but because these two are strongly linked to the subject, it deserves at least one mention. Secretary of State, you may now realize that you made a huge mistake when you didn't consult with the advocacy organisations. More will be discussed in the debate of the other law when the House discusses what the President of the Republic has sent back with this proposal at the same time. After these mistakes, I think that the government should have had at least as much insight - I say once again - that it deals with excuses and criticisms in substance, not in its good tradition, to try to push the whole thing again with strength, as the text of the previous poor regulation has said. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-22	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[On Dr. Zoltán Kovács' signal:]] Before I give you the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have 10 minutes to speak in the debate and to present the possible closing phrase. You have the floor, Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács.
u2015-03-17-23	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The Government has dealt in substance with the transcript of the President of the Republic, considered it, and wishes the Parliament to accept the proposal in its unchanged form. [[Defiance in the opposition's benches. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. András Schiffer and Dr. Gábor Staudt applaud.]]
u2015-03-17-24	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate you have 9 minutes 40 seconds to say the closing word, if I count correctly. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I shall give the floor first to the Member who has applied in advance in writing. Gergely Bárándy, Hungarian Socialist Party!
u2015-03-17-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Technically, in this situation, I do not wish to exercise the right to speak, because what the Secretary of State has said is everything but a meaningful comment. I was hoping that he would say something meaningful after the majority and minority opinion of the Legislative Committee. The fact that it has been dealt with in substance is only intended to be maintained in exactly the same form, I do not say that this position is impossible and logically completely wrong or untenable, but I think that if it had actually been considered and dealt with in substance, then it should have been acknowledged that the President of the Republic is absolutely right in this regard. So if the pro-government Members or the Secretary of State are still willing to speak in this debate in order to be able to respond, I will leave the remaining nine minutes. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-26	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer, Head of the Group, May Other be Politics.
u2015-03-17-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to briefly mention what is not included in the President's veto, in the President's letter, namely that this bill destroys the green authorities, integrates them into government offices, weakens the environmental authorisation procedure, and reduces the professional guarantees that have so far existed in environmental procedures, in the selection of experts. Since the decision of the Constitutional Court of 28/1991, the validity of which has not been changed by the new Fundamental Law, it is clear constitutional requirement that the level of protection achieved once before cannot be reduced. From now on, I think there may be agreement that these green authorities and organizational guarantees that are condemned to be disbanded may be worth more than the sole board of the Presidential Office of the Republic. As far as veto is concerned, the president lived with a political veto, even though, on the basis of the above, the right to a healthy environment, the interests of future generations, would have allowed him to use the institution of the constitutional veto. He didn't do it. The President of the Republic, by the way, rightly objects to the fact that for certain priority investments, the date of notification of the decision is the fifth day after the date of issue of the notice. And now we have come to the point where, unlike Antal Rogán, I would like to talk not about our common affairs, but about your common affairs. [[10.00]] Do you know how this priority investment law was born? In the spring of 2006... - not even 2006, 2009... No, in spring 2006 the Socialist Government submitted this bill, and there was a MSZP-Fidesz pact that allowed you to vote together, your common sin is that today there is a legal institution in Hungary that virtually destroys civic participation and formalizes environmental licensing in the most transformative investments with the most serious consequences. However, this process did not start at that time. During the period 2002-2010, the customer status rules of the environmental law were first weakened, the 2003 motorway law, the so-called highway law, and then the Bavarian Investment Act, then the Construction Act, and then in 2008-2009 the administrative procedural law narrowed down the rights of citizens to participate. During the last four-year cycle, the key investment law was developed to such perfection that political commissars who lied about the communist regime could give instructions to the licensing authority. We now get to the point that, in the investments that most affect life, the most affect people's everyday life, the most influence is on how the value of a property changes, what dust pollution is expected, what other inconveniences the local people face, making it virtually impossible for the self-organizations of local citizens, the people living locally to intervene in these procedures. I would like to make it clear that this is your common sin, who has been ruling this country since 2002. This process started in 2002, and you guys are going to do what the Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments failed to do in an impertinent, brazen way. And I would also like to make it clear that for LMP in the future, every single law which tries to exclude large investment, large investment in natural heritage, from Community control will continue to be unacceptable, no matter what noble purpose it refers to. Each of these laws serves one purpose: so that the oligarchs close to you and the various multi-companies with you are free to raid this country as freely as possible. If there are a total of five days from the publication, it means that local people, local associations, are practically insane in these administrative procedures. Let's be clear. This is not about the licensing of a pizzeria in these cases, it is not about the various investment of small businesses in the catering industry, it is about when high-capital companies or the state are making investments that fundamentally affect the quality of life of a given environment for several generations. You and your predecessors want to banish citizens from such procedures, from such procedures they banished with the highway law, and with the original flagship investment law, the people who will carry the burden of these investments. It's a shame what they're doing [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and in this they are the exact continuation of those who governed the country before 2010! Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-28	Thank you, Congressman, Mr Group Leader. The next speaker is Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-03-17-29	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Fellow Members! Just as we did not support this bill in the original vote, of course we will not support it now. We have said this in the debate, and we cannot stress enough that we cannot support the reduction of the rights of territorial government administrations in any way by integrating them into the government office. Even then, and now, I have been exemplary with the environmental authority, and since then I have received letters from, of course, anonymously from various environmental authorities, where there are various figures that 15-20-25 percent will be reduced immediately after integration into the government office, the transfer of their assets, their infrastructure to the property of the government office, and similar fears will be expressed in them. This, of course, leads to further weakening of interest in the public administration system, and in particular in the environmental authority system, which cannot be allowed in the present situation. Since 2010, there has been a continuous, strong weakening, the dissipation of the environmental authority sector, to which Jobbik cannot assist in any way, nor can we assist in the fact that decision-making is increasingly shifted to a political level rather than professionally, on the line of environmental licensing, as on other lines, on other lines, political decisions have long since been taken instead of official decisions. It is clear that the aim is to reduce the obstacles to large investments in pro-government background economies. The environmental authority has so far been a major obstacle in this area, and they are now trying to eliminate it in its entirety, and it is quite clear that a government office will not be a professional, but will make a political decision on a matter of gravity where an entire government is behind an investment, an investment intention. Where money laundering, where corruption is involved, an authority should not be an obstacle. This Jobbik wants to lie across with his whole body, we will not be able to support it, and we will oppose it in every way and by all means available. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-30	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2015-03-17-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to make another attempt to ask the representative of the government or the members of the Fidesz KDNP, who haven't used a single second of their time frame to do Parliament the favor of explaining to us here in this debate why they don't want to change despite the transcription of the President of the Republic, because they haven't done so yet. We told you the arguments, we told you why we think we should, and you didn't tell us why you didn't. [[Foreman Novak: A country awaits the opinion of KDNP!]] In recent times, KDNP has almost never spoken in time-framed debates, and the Fidesz has not, but we find it strange that the government does not. Mr. Secretary, what you said in the last, like, six seconds, that was because you didn't, right? Because there was no argument for it. So, Mr. Secretary, we'd be obliged if you'd say something about this. [[Zoltán Lukács: Then. When.]] When Members still have the opportunity to reply, i.e. not in the closing words, if possible. And Fidesz MEPs would be obliged not only to us, but probably to the public and the country and the people involved, if they could tell us why they disagree with the Republic President's transcription, why they do not wish to consider a single letter of it, and why they do not wish to change a single letter of the law. So I would continue to look forward to these speeches, and - I repeat - not in the closing, because Jobbik and I have time to respond, and even if they do this favor, I suppose the faction leadership is willing to give the LMP a minute or two to respond. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-32	Thank you, Congressman. I don't see any more applicants. [[Zoltán Lukács: Shame!]] Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. [[Zoltán Lukács: There was no debate! Dr. István Hiller:]] I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-03-17-33	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear fellow Members, First, there was the opposition at the TAB meeting, but there was no debate, there was no comment from the opposition, I would like to say this, there was no debate, there was no discussion in five minutes, there was no end to the discussion of the proposal - so I do not understand how the minority opinion came up, because there was no debate just now, what Gergely Bárándy talked about, so there was no debate about the non-existent debate that lasted for zero seconds. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It could have been now, couldn't it?]] I would like to say that the President of the Republic challenged one point out of a major 22-page bill that the government had considered and thought that the debate in the general debate at the TAB meeting [[Dr. András Schiffer: You just said there was no debate!]] in the last closing debate here, Congressman Schiffer could have just said: [[Dr. András Schiffer: I told you!]] What you have to say, don't yell at him now, please. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'd like to tell you, too. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy and Dr. András Schiffer intervene.]]
u2015-03-17-34	Mr. Secretary, a moment of patience...
u2015-03-17-35	Congressman Bárándy, you should have yelled in your fall...
u2015-03-17-36	Secretary of State...
u2015-03-17-37	...he was very quiet there. You should have yelled at him. [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Oh, how weak!]]
u2015-03-17-38	Just a moment, please.
u2015-03-17-39	That's the thing.
u2015-03-17-40	Schiffer...
u2015-03-17-41	And some of his other associates. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]]
u2015-03-17-42	Mr. Schiffer...
u2015-03-17-43	Mr President, I would like to continue...
u2015-03-17-44	Secretary of State, a...
u2015-03-17-45	...so I'd like to tell you... [[István Apáti: Guard! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-03-17-46	I would ask Mr Schiffer, Mr Group Leader, to proceed according to the house rules, and I would also ask Mr Barándy to urge his fellow political groups to be more patient. Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[10.10]]
u2015-03-17-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then I'd like to continue. So I can only repeat what we said in the general debate. In the current legislative context, the citation, which the President of the Republic objects to, is contained in the government decrees. We thought and expanded this possibility that, in the case of so-called priority investments, not only a government decree, but also a law regulates this, which also expands the possibility of customers because the announcement date is extended by five days. From this point on, the legal effects which, by the way, enter into force immediately at the date of the announcement under the Government Decree-Law. So I would like to say that this was an extension of the original proposal. The point is, however, what we would like to say in this regard, and the government has considered it, and the government has also said that it is not green investment, but would jeopardise significant EU investment if this were to be removed from the proposal. I will give you a few examples: for example, a billion HUF or an additional extension of the postal wi-fi system to the development of the village care network, such as the administrative customer relationship development, which would mean better customer service in approximately HUF 12 billion. This is a total amount of HUF 3.2 billion that falls under the category of priority investments. This year, even 1,500 billion would have to be paid to users. We thought that if we went back to the government order level, this would speed up even more. If we extend this by law in general and customer rights, this is also important for customers, but it does not prevent the payment of 3285 billion, the payment of contracted EU funds, or endanger it. Ladies and gentlemen, These considerations have been decided by the government, which, by the way, has been expressed earlier by the government spokesperson, which I am maintaining in this case, and I call on the fellow Members to vote unchanged, as this would be a step forward compared to the previous situation. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-48	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Kovács. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place at our meeting today. Dear Parliament, Coming up next is the Judicial Committee 4/2014-2018. Ü/3163, submitted for rejection of the IUB ad hoc resolution. trial of an application with a serial number. I would like to inform you that the MSZP Group has asked the Parliament to decide on a case-by-case resolution of the Justice Committee. The debate will be the first to be heard by a Member of the Group proposing a decision and then by the rapporteur of the Judicial Committee. The speeches will then take place. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-17-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Justice Committee has taken a decision in its ad hoc resolution, which the House Committee has shown that even the affected László Kövér does not agree with. The factions could have witnessed a rather interesting situation when the Speaker, at the meeting of the House Committee, virtually stated his intention to apologize for the statement concerned - which I think the minutes of the House Committee will testify to with proper credibility - and then, a few days later, the Justice Committee took a decision with opposite content. I would like to point out that the basis for all this was that President László Kövér, when he was chairing the meeting, said the following sentence to our fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, You can smile when you hear that statement, say, in the pub or on the street corner. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right!]] But even if it's not for a man in high position, it's for, let's just say, a normal person. This was not the first statement by László Kövér that, in our view, seriously undermines the authority of the House, he has already had sentences to try to act like a man; when he spoke to Mr Cséfalvay at the time, he added, as a last word, that I am sorry, referring to which Member should reply to his sentences; or - to give another example and also to quote him - László Kövér said: "So if you think you should quietly order a large spritzer next to the pub atmosphere. [[György Balla: That's right! Happy Stephen: He was right!]] But it would be even better if they acted like human beings in the National Assembly, it would affect us. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, When László Kövér places such great emphasis on the fact that anyone who shows up a Molino or uses a worse term in Parliament will fine this, I believe that he should start on himself. You should start with yourself, because perhaps you do not need to be a linguist to judge the term "jump off" to be unworthy of a Speaker; you do not need to be a linguist to conclude, I think, at first, that an impartial session is violated by the Speaker of the House who says such a sentence or half sentence to his fellow Member. In comparison, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided that this is okay, that it is okay for the Speaker to be able to do so. Does this mean, fellow Members, that if this resolution is maintained unchanged in this way by the House, then such sentences will be freely spoken in Parliament? That when, say, President Rubovszky stands up, you can chant to shut up? Ladies and gentlemen, Is this the pattern of conduct that will increase the authority of this House? If the Parliament says yes to this, that if it confirms the decision of the Constitutional Committee, it will start a process that will have unforeseen consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, Think of the fact that every opposition leader here will feel empowered to say such things in order to remand MEPs in this way. I think it is a pity to continue this speech, and you understand exactly what this is about. And I would think, Your Honor, that we would agree on that. [[Dr. Mátrai Márta: Yes.]] Yeah? Do we agree on that? And why do we agree, Your Honor? Is it because what I'm saying is true, or is it because you're tired of the way I talk? [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. György Balla: You're in the right place!]] You know, the thing is, Your Honor, with your vote, you will be able to prove which one you mean. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that this crazy decision that was taken in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - I hope by accident - should now be replaced by common sense in plenary. Thank you very much. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Long live! Bravo! Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2015-03-17-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to István Vitányi, rapporteur for the Justice Committee, within a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In his submission, the MSZP Group asked the Judicial Committee to state in a case-by-case resolution: Speaker László Kövér has offended [[Zoltán Lukács: Shut up!]] [[Zoltán Lukács: Shut up!]] the provision of the Act on Parliament for impartial sittings at the meeting on 23 December 2014 (Zoltán Lukács: Shut up!) Ordered Congressman Zoltán Gőgös to order. At its meeting on 16 February 2015, the Judicial Committee discussed the submission and took the view that the Speaker, in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the Parliament, had ordered order, according to the record, that the Parliamentary Assembly's order, the Speaker's State Secretary, had not violated the provisions of the Parliamentary Act concerning impartial sitting. [[10.20]] We believe that this is exactly what allowed the Parliament to continue its work. In the opinion of the members of the Committee, the chair of the meeting did so in a number of other cases, regardless of party standing. The possibility that there may be more opposition representatives involved in such cases may need to reflect on my fellow opposition Members, as they have a number of parliamentary instruments to express their displeasure, but in most cases they choose to yell at, the unrated, obscene style. I note that ordering can't be considered as partial. The resolution states that it is for the chair of the sitting to ensure the smooth conduct of the Parliament, who is entitled to the right of discretion within the framework of the law in respect of the statements and measures necessary for the maintenance of the order of the sitting. It would advance the achievement of fair parliamentary work, the preservation of Parliament's authority and dignity, if in the future the MSZP faction or its members set an example of their own conduct, so as not to put the Speaker in such an awkward situation. It is enough that I refer only to today when András Tállai responded to his speech before the agenda, and in the benches of the MSZP we were once again able to witness the conduct that was scratching the boundaries of good taste. I trust that the MSZP is developing, and hope dies last. As a consequence of what has been said, the house rules are set at 138. I ask the Honourable Parliament to reject the request of the group of the MSZP, thus maintaining the resolution of the committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to reject the request of the group of the MSZP, thus maintaining the resolution of the committee. Thank you for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2015-03-17-52	Thank you very much, Congressman Vitányi. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: László Teleki.]] If you withdraw [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I didn't even press it.]] I'll give the floor to Congressman Novak, Jobbik.
u2015-03-17-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As the most frequently fined Member, I have asked for the floor, because the fat penalty regularly hits those who speak out, but who have not once hit the pro-government representatives or even the Speaker himself. Of course, this style is unacceptable from any leading president, especially from the Speaker himself, of course, but it is not normal for László Kövér to react to this arrogant teacher's uncle style with some kind of kindergarten method, and here he complains about making two words on the agenda that he resents. Is there nothing more important for the Hungarian Parliament to discuss? But if it's an agenda, let's just say it's a regular one, and we know the left is sensitive to that. There has been a report in Parliament published on the Népszabadság website, the title of which is also in a quotation sign: Mr Novák, shut the fuck up! László Kövér said this several times, but we didn't run to the Justice and Order Committee for redress. There are bigger grievances to the Hungarian people, we Jobbikos, for example, when István Ujhelyi, as the leading president of the National Assembly, is arbitraryly banning the word gypsy crime, and thus pushing the subject off the agenda does not allow the problem to be addressed, the proposals for solving one of Hungary's biggest problems. Such arbitraryness is indeed a violation of the dignity of the Parliament, even of the freedoms of its representatives. It violates Parliament's dignity that the cafeteria can be alcoholic, and unfortunately only Jobbik's representatives take self-limitation, and we are the only ones. [[Uproar and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] who have also called for this in the House Committee, but no faction has supported this proposal to ban alcohol abuse at work. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] It violates the dignity of the Parliament, that not only did Tibor Szanyi drink here, but we remember his speeches, which almost cried out for a probe. It violates the dignity of the Parliament that he regularly smoked here in Parliament's corridor, and sometimes the monument suppressed the cigarette in an ashtray. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He insulted the dignity of the Parliament, that in the colours of the MSZP, the Member who entered the Parliament took his prosthesis out of his seat. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-03-17-54	Thank you very much, Congressman, two minutes...
u2015-03-17-55	And it also violated the dignity of the Parliament that former members of the Central Committee of the MSZMP could enter the National Assembly in the colors of the MSZP. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr András Schiffer, Mr Group Leader, in two minutes.
u2015-03-17-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I am obliged to adjust my fellow Member, President Novak: we also accept self-limitation in the Parliament building. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Other than that, unlike Jobbik.]] And we don't drink alcohol. And to my fellow Member of the Council, I would like to signal Péter Harrach's illustrious saying that yelling is a parliamentary genre. On the motion of the socialists, on different grounds, we will vote in favour, and the different reasons are the following: namely, this is not a question of violating the impartial sitting of László Kövér. The leading president - and I have also met him in the last term - can also be partless if, by the way, he is very culturally instructing the Member so to order, and vice versa; the figure of speech in itself, which I have already thought of myself, which László Kövér used, is not, in itself, a violation of partiality. The problem is that the dignity of the Parliament itself is a standard of house rules and parliamentary law. László Fatvér used to keep watch on this, which is why he used to hand out fines and discipline opposition representatives when, by the way, they express their displeasure on a very cultural basis, but on a visual basis. I think that, if the dignity of the Parliament is so important, it is a powerful obligation for the head of Parliament and the Speaker of the House. It is not that in this case the Speaker was impartial or impartial; it is that the head of the House, the Speaker, cannot speak thus, even if a Member has broken order. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Mr Lezsák just put me in an extremely civilized position. There are other leading presidents who have a way of doing this, and that is especially true of the Speaker of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Intercom from the LMP line: That's right! Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-03-17-58	Thank you, Mr. Schiffer Group Leader. The next speaker is Mr László Teleki, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-03-17-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that the Hungarian Socialist Party's submission is clear: it rejects all the speeches that the Speaker has made, so I think that there is no question that this should be supported simply because if we do not comply with the written and unwritten rules that must be observed in the House, then where will the tone of the Hungarian Parliament become? Perhaps what we have just heard in the speech of Jobbik's representative is that it is openly expected to be gypsy, openly expected to be Jewish. [[You're a liar!]] I think that I condemn what Congressman Novak said not only as a gypsy, but also as a Hungarian, because it cannot be deceived. It is not possible to generalize it because we are still living in a democratic country that is not governed by you, but by a larger governing party, but if these human rights are not protected by the pro-governments, it is their responsibility to allow you to be revealed in the way that you are otherwise revealed in many cases. [[Previous Novak: Learn Hungarian!]] Therefore, there is a form of this matter that you wish to do to vote against Jobbik, because if you do not, you will accept that it is possible to speak in any tone, in any style, and to violate any national or religious minority as they would otherwise like. So don't give the floor to what the Speaker of Parliament started, because then there is no going back, and from then on, every speaker of the House can do what László Kövér did. So it's not just about Zoltán Gőgös, it's about the entire parliamentary group, no matter what faction one sits in, and it's about Hungary's judgment from this House. Therefore, I would consider it very important that you vote in favour of our submission, because then it would be possible to see and perceive that Parliament is thinking of a different direction than that represented by László Kövér or Jobbik. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-60	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. The next speaker is Team Leader Antal Rogán, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2015-03-17-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, I find it sad that the Hungarian Socialist Party came here with such an agenda to the plenary session of the Parliament, but I would like to note that it is one thing that, in my opinion, the Speaker is only doing his job when the increasingly regular and harsher representatives are trying to prevent shouting at the beginning of the House and thus try to defend the authority of the House. We could also talk about how many of these there are, but what kind of yelling are these, fellow Members? Since Congressman Barándy is still following me, I would like you to explain to me whether he thinks it's right, let's say, the kind of yelling that he said at one of Parliament's meetings, which simply sounds like, "What a jerk you are!" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.30]] Or, Honourable Socialist Party Group, why didn't you write a letter when Mr Ujhelyi once, as President of the House, said as follows: Mr Ujhelyi, Vice-President of the Parliament [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] As the head of the House, he said to each of the Members of Parliament: "I, as the head of the House, have new driver's licenses, so I ask Members to keep their mouths shut. Then why didn't you write a letter to the Speaker of Parliament, why didn't you take the initiative here at the sitting of the Honourable Parliament, fellow Members? I think that what you are presenting here today is, by the way, a brilliant double standard that no one else shows well, like the statistics that indicate what opposition yellings are like. The vast majority of the yellings are also opposition during the period of interpellation and before the agenda. It is not my place to defend the Jobbik faction here, but I would note that if we look at the proportion of opposition yelling, let us say 42 falls on Jobbik's group in the period 2014 and autumn 2014 and on other opponents, including the socialists in particular, 261. So much for that. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Interviews from Jobbik: Shame! Comments from the lines of the MSZP: We are opposed! What's wrong? We're the opposition party!]] what matters should be kept in order in this House. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-17-62	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-03-17-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I say to Mr. Antal Rogán, head of the group, that the sentence comes from your benches, it is absolutely true that yelling is a parliamentary genre. It's not about what they're yelling at, it's about what they're yelling at. For what I said, and what you quoted, Mr. Group Leader, I apologized. This should have been done by Speaker László Kövér, and he would have done so if your Justice Committee and its membership had allowed it. It is clear from the meeting of the House Committee that László Fat wanted to apologize for this expression, so he wanted to apologize for his sentence. You, fellow Members, have not allowed this to happen to your own Speaker. The fact that protecting the authority of this House would be a frivolous issue, my honourable colleague Novak, I strongly dispute that. It's not complaining, it's protecting the House's authority. It's, you know, the standard of defamation, the standard required for an expression to be objective and subjective in violation of honor. It is objective, what the Speaker said, that he is capable of doing. If you're not subjective enough to do this because you're not offended by it, that's your job. What I would also like to highlight in the context of this debate, honourable Members, is what the rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said, that this was necessary to enable him to continue his work, so I think that he could have ensured and achieved this not only by using this expression. I would like to ask you, and you in particular, Congressman, when you used such expressions against pro-government Members, because I do not remember that from László Kövér. But all the more so is to use it against opposition representatives. Now, that's what impartial sittings and otherwise cultured human behavior don't fit. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]]
u2015-03-17-64	Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-65	So, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say once again that you now have the opportunity to correct the serious mistake of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs...
u2015-03-17-66	Thank you, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-67	If not, there will be serious consequences here in this House. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-17-68	I give the floor to Mr István Vitányi, Member. Congressman István Vitányi! [[Dr. István Vitányi consults his fellow benches.]] Congressman István Vitányi, do you wish to respond to what has been said in this debate? [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-03-17-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to say one sentence. From the mouths of the Members speaking from the opposition benches, these sentences are very charming; they are spoken by those who bring sirens to Parliament, who speak through loudspeakers, who put out tacepao, so I think that their comments were completely uncredited. I ask Parliament to reject the LMP Your request. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-03-17-70	Thank you very much, Congressman Vitányi. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Commission's decision to reject the Commission's resolution, which has just been discussed. Please take your seats. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressmen, ladies, please take your seats. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the house rules are 138. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3, the Parliament shall decide not on the resolution, but on the application submitted. So I ask the Parliament whether it accepts the request of the MSZP Group. Now vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide not on the resolution, but on the application submitted. So I ask the Parliament whether it accepts the request of the MSZP Group. Now vote. (Vote.) The Parliament rejected the request by 62 votes in favour, 106 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the Act on the amendment of certain laws relating to the restructuring of the regional administration system, adopted by the President of the Republic on 3 March 2015 by the Parliament for consideration follows. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/3115/18. Letter from the President of the Republic No T/3115/19. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report of the Legislative Committee T/3115/21. you will also be able to read it on the website. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee has not tabled an amendment, and the final vote follows. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the text of the law, which has not been declared, on the amendment of certain laws relating to the restructuring of the regional administration system. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, The Parliament passed the law by 111 votes in favour, 62 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The second line follows. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the proposal for a decision on the Memorial Day of Ferenc Rákóczi and the final vote. Zsolt Semjén, Imre Vejkey, the Christian Democratic People's Party, Sándor Lezsák, Ildikó Bene and Mónika Dunai, Fidesz, the independent motion of representatives is H/3033. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee's proposal to amend the summary H/3033/7. by serial number and summary report H/3033/8. by serial number. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. Subject to the derogation from the house rules, reservations and separate votes are not possible. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/3033/7. a summary amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 171 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/3033 will accept it. the text of the proposal for a decision with serial numbers, as amended by the proposal for an amending amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended resolution proposal with 171 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. [[10.40]] Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCV on public finances follows. Final vote on the bill amending law. A separate motion by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary T/3871. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee did not submit a summary amendment and its summary report is T/3871/2. available on the network by serial number. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3871. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 172 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan follows. Since no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee related to the debate, we will therefore decide, in the final vote, on the submitted text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2917. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 172 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the publication of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information follows. Since no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee related to the debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2918. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 171 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the publication of the Convention on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information follows. Since no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee related to the debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2919. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 174 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. A final vote on the bill between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Italian Republic will follow. Since no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee related to the debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2920. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 154 votes in favour, 22 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, A final vote on the bill between Hungary and the Republic of Macedonia on the publication of the Convention on Social Security and Social Security will follow. Since no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee related to the debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2921. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill with 176 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. A final vote on the bill between Hungary and the Republic of Albania on the publication of the Convention on Social Security will follow. Since no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee related to the debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2923. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill with 176 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The final vote of the bill on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Korea follows. Since no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee related to the debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3401. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 175 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. The final vote of the bill on the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the mutual recognition and exchange of driving licences follows. Since no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee related to the debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3402. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill with 176 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the final vote of the bill between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan on the publication of a protocol on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation in Tashkent on 17 April 2008 of the convention signed in the field of income and property taxes. Since no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee related to the debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3406. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill with 176 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[10.50]] Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the amendment and supplementing of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the readmission of persons at the common state border signed in Budapest on 12 September 2002 follows. Since no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee related to the debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3407. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill with 176 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the final vote on the draft law amending and supplementing the Convention between Hungary and the Slovak Republic on cooperation in the prevention of cross-border crime and the fight against organised crime, signed in Bratislava on 2 October 2006. Since no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee related to the debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3408. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 153 votes in favour, no votes against and 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following is the 2186/2008 on the Hungarian military engagement in the operations of the International Security Assistance Forces in Afghanistan. Korm. Decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision adopting a report amending the Decision. As no proposal for an amendment to the proposal has been tabled and no committee for a debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the proposal for a decision submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/2024. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 153 votes to 20, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Following a series of events, 2186/2008 on further Hungarian military engagement in the operations of the International Security Assistance Forces in Afghanistan the adoption of a proposal for a decision adopting a report amending a government decision. As no proposal for an amendment to the proposal has been tabled and no committee for a debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the proposal for a decision submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/2025. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 152 votes in favour, 22 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, A decision on the adoption of the resolution proposal on the adoption of the report on Hungarian military engagement in the Afghanistan Destined Support Operation will follow. As no proposal for an amendment to the proposal has been tabled and no committee for a debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the proposal for a decision submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/3348. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 153 votes to 22, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It follows the 1070/2014 on the Hungarian military engagement in the European Union's Central African Republic operation. the adoption of a proposal for a decision adopting a report on a government decision. As no proposal for an amendment to the proposal has been tabled and no committee for a debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the proposal for a decision submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/2021. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 151 votes to 22, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision on the adoption of a report on the Hungarian military engagement in the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic follows. As no proposal for an amendment to the proposal has been tabled and no committee for a debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the proposal for a decision submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/2019 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 152 votes to 22, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision adopting a report on further Hungarian military engagement in the European Union's operation in the Central African Republic follows. As no proposal for an amendment to the proposal has been tabled and no committee for a debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the proposal for a decision submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/3347. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 152 votes to 22, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following is the 1915/2013 on further Hungarian military contribution to the European Union mission to train Somali security forces. a decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision adopting a report on its decision in a government decision. [[11.00]] As no proposal for an amendment to the proposal has been tabled and no committee for a debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the proposal for a decision submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/2023. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 151 votes to 22, with 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision adopting a report on further Hungarian military engagement in the Mali Training Operation of the European Union. As no proposal for an amendment to the proposal has been tabled and no committee for a debate has been received, we will therefore decide on the text of the proposal for a decision submitted in the final vote. I will tell the Honourable Parliament that I must say this text every time because of the minutes. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H-2020. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 152 votes in favour, 22 against and 2 abstentions. The 2011 CXC on national public education follows a series of steps. Final vote of the bill amending the law. Since no amendments have been tabled by the Commission which closed the detailed discussion and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/3119 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 113 votes in favour, 59 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CCXLII on the renewal and development of Városliget follows. Final vote of the bill amending the law. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed debate has not been tabled and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/3400 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 114 votes in favour, 62 against and 1 abstention. Next up is the 77/2011 on the National Energy Strategy. final vote on the proposal for a decision amending the parliamentary decision. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed debate has not been tabled and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/3409. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 113 votes in favour, 35 against and 29 abstentions. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws on higher education. The submission is T/3017. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/3017/8. and the summary report by T/3017/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decisions. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/3017/3 of the MSZP. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. T/3017/3. Tamás Harangozó and Ágnes Kunhalmi propose an amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 112 against and 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3017/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 114 votes in favour, 56 against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3017/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 64, without abstention. Dear Parliament, The year 1952 on the Civil Procedure III follows. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/3018. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/3018/5. and its summary report is T/3018/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The decisions will follow. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3018/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 37 against and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3018/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 42, with 22 abstentions. [[11.10]] Dear Parliament, It follows from the summary method submitted to the bill amending Act I of 2012 on the Code of Labour in the context of the ban on Sunday work in the retail sector. The decision on the proposal and the final vote. Szatmáry Kristóf, Vas Imre, Fidesz and Harrach Péter, Christian Democratic People's Party and Members' Independent Motion T/2413. is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/2413/8. by serial number and summary report by T/2413/9. by serial number. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to Section 4 of the MSZP, the T/2413/3. It proposed to maintain an amendment with a serial number. That's what we'll decide first. T/2413/3. Anita Heringes and Nándor Gúr propose an amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Now, please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 110 against and two abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2413/8. a proposal for a summary amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 167 votes in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2413/11. a single proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 138 votes in favour, 37 against and 1 abstention. It follows from the 2005 CLXIV on trade. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. Individual motion by Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, Mr Roland Mengyi and Mr Imre Vas Fideszes Members T/3414. is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/3414/11. No. T/3414/12 and its summary report. by serial number. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/3414/6, the LMP is the T/3414/6. The MSZP proposed to maintain the amendments to the amendments Nos T/3414/3, 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/3414/6. Mr Schmuck, Ms Erzsébet, tabled a proposal in an amending proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 66 votes in favour, 110 against and 1 abstention. T/3414/3. Mr Csaba Tóth put forward a proposal in the amendment No. The adoption of this proposal excludes amendment No 4. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 110 against and 23 abstentions. The T/3414/4. Mr Tóth's proposal for an amendment was followed by a proposal by Csaba Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 110 against and 24 abstentions. T/3414/5. Mr Gúr and his fellow Members put forward a proposal in the amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 110 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3414/11. a proposal for a summary amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 36 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, And now for the final vote. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3414/15. a single proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 115 votes in favour, 37 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote and the decision to make a summary amendment to the bill on the survey of the population on the basis of a sample of personal, family and housing conditions in 2016. The submission was made in T/3410. is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/3410/8. by serial number and summary report by T/3410/9. by serial number. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. According to paragraph 4 of the T/3410/3. It proposed to maintain an amendment with a serial number. That's what we'll decide first. T/3410/3. Mr István Ikotity put forward a proposal in the amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 12 votes in favour, 112 against and 52 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3410/8. a proposal for a summary amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes to five, with 52 abstentions. [[11.20]] Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3410/11. a single proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 142 votes to five, with 30 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote and the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain agricultural aid laws follow up. The submission was made in T/3412. on a serial number available on the Parliament's IT network. T/3412/11. by serial number and summary report by T/3412/12. by serial number. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/3412/5, the LMP is the T/3412/5. Amendment Nos 6 and 6 were proposed to be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/3412/5. Mr Sallai R. Benedek put forward a proposal in an amending proposal with a serial number. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 111 against and two abstentions. T/3412/6. Mr Sallai R. Benedek put forward a proposal in an amending proposal with a serial number. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 112 against and two abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3412/11. a proposal for a summary amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 133 votes to 10, with 32 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3412/14. a single proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 134 votes to 10, with 29 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now time for decisions to be taken on a series of subjects. I would like to remind you that, following the request of the MSZP Group, the Parliament has already carried out the 2013 LIV on the implementation of the cuts in overhead costs in order to ensure a fair transmission of the positive effects of the reduction of energy prices on the world market. T/2795. The debate on the inclusion of a series of legislative proposals with a serial number. Now it's time for the vote. I ask you, will the representatives of Bertalan Tóth, József Tobias and Anita Heringes include T/2795. a proposal for a regulation tabled on a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 55 votes in favour, 108 against and nine abstentions. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, on the basis of the request of the LMP Group, the Parliament has already carried out the T/2856 on the transparency of the state security past. The debate on the inclusion of a series of legislative proposals with a serial number. Now it's time for the vote. I ask you, is Mr András Schiffer T/2856 included in the series. Subscribed in serial number [[Previous Novak: Those affected may abstain!]] His bill. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament's bill with 67 votes in favour , 102 against, with 2 abstentions did not include a series of subjects. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to elect a committee member. The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/3890. by serial number. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In so doing, the Parliament shall elect Mr Zoltán Késző, an independent representative, to be a member of the committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Zoltán Kész a member of the committee with 173 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Allow me to wish the new member of the committee good luck in carrying out his work. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with general debates. [[Several Members are leaving the meeting room.]] We'll take a five-minute break first. [[Pause: 11.27-11.33President: Lezsák SándorMonitor: Loránt Hegedűs]]
u2015-03-17-71	I would like to ask my fellow Members either to step out into the corridor or to take their seats. [[Continued noise, move.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members either to step out into the corridor or to take their seats. I would like to ask my fellow Members either to step out into the corridor or to take their seats. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Mr György Balla, Mr Roland Mengyi, Mr Szilárd Németh Fidesz, a separate motion by Mr T/3782. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Balla, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman György Balla.
u2015-03-17-72	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Madam Minister, fellow Members. This bill is part of a clear system, part of a clear process, a process that is about consumers' interests, cheaper energy supply, if I simply wish to put it straight, about reducing the cost. Today, no one may be surprised that the consumer is the most important in terms of energy supply laws. Today, no one is surprised that the Hungarian Parliament considers the interests of consumers to be the most important. But it wasn't always like that. In 2010, we received a state of vulnerability to people and the country in all its elements in the field of energy supply. Gas suppliers were all in foreign hands, foreign multinational companies decided how much profit they wanted to bring home, how much money they wanted to take out of the Hungarian people's pockets. The gas wholesale was also in foreign hands, so the Germans and the Russians agreed on the price at which Hungary would buy the natural gas it needed. Long-term contracts were concluded under which we would have had to pay even if we had not consumed gas if we had not used the committed natural gas. That's the result. Before 2010, the Hungarians paid for Europe's highest energy prices. Socialists have tripled the price of gas and doubled the price of electricity, with 15 increases in fees in total. Compared to their payment, the Hungarians paid the highest gas price and the second highest electricity price. It is no exaggeration to say that half of the Hungarian salaries under the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government were taken by high taxes and half by overhead costs. Meanwhile, the country has lost its vital energy interests from a national strategic point of view. During the first Gyurcsány era, the remaining utility companies were privatized, and therefore the Hungarian families were fully exposed to foreign service providers. The population has become poor, indebted, nothing and no one has protected them from the excesses of utility service providers given to them abroad. Meanwhile, these providers have made a net profit of over HUF 1000 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, The socialists privatized everything - literally everything - and misplaced, and the disproportionately low purchase price was also removed. Those who claim to be left-wing have never represented the interests of hardworking people. They've always been looking at money, it's always about money, and it's never about people. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Like you!]] They were always guided by misinterpreted compliance with the West, and never by the protection of the Hungarian people. It is no wonder that the EU publicly praised us at the time and laughed behind our backs because the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments were the only ones in Europe who defended the interests of the EU, the interests of foreign multinational operators, against their own country, against the interests of their own citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, all of this ceased, and the Hungarian government finally became the most important. One of the main objectives of Fidesz since the change in government in 2010 has been to strengthen the social security of the population. We are working to reduce the burden of Hungarian families and hardworking Hungarian people, making their livelihoods easier. One of our first decisions after the formation of the government was to freeze bills and rethink price regulation. From January 2013 - now listen, honourable Socialist Member. - we have made several reductions in the number of times, with the constant opposition of the left and Brussels. At three paces we reduced the average price of gas, electricity and district heat by 23 percent. Compared to the prices before the first reduction in electricity, domestic natural gas decreased by 25 percent, electricity by 24.5 percent and district heating by 22.5 percent. Today we have achieved that in Europe Hungarian families pay the second least for natural gas and electricity. I would just say that in 2010, Hungarian families paid the most in comparison to their income. [[11.40]] Since the start of the reduction, the population has saved a total of HUF 334 billion, and the burden of an average family has been reduced by up to HUF 170,000 per year. Ladies and gentlemen, Our aim is to make energy supply the cheapest in Hungary within Europe, so we will protect the results of the reduction of the costs so far. The energy security of the Hungarians is served by a number of national strategic investments and decisions, the development of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the re-purchase of the E.ON gas storage facilities, the political agreement with the Russians on gas transport and the establishment of the First National Public Service Provider. The political agreement with the Russians in February this year is very favourable for the transport of gas to our country. According to the gas supply agreement concluded in 1996 and ending at the end of 2015, Hungary should also have paid for the quantity of gas not used. You know what kind of government our country had in 1996, don't you? You see, my fellow socialists: in 1996, you made an agreement that, even if we hadn't bought gas, we would have had to pay. Fortunately, this contract is also a thing of the past, because at the Orbán-Putin meeting it was agreed that it would be possible to use the gas that has not been used in the new treaty in the coming years, and it was also agreed that Hungary should always be able to pay at the time of consumption. The 22 billion cubic metres of gas that have not been used so far can be enough for our country for four to five years, the value of which would have been about EUR 3 billion - this is what we would have had to pay if we had failed to amend the agreement, we would not have succeeded in concluding this agreement. So the agreement that we have just concluded does not mean another long-term commitment, and we do not pay hundreds of billions of forints unnecessarily for unused gas. The agreement is therefore very beneficial for Hungary: the energy supply of Hungarian families is secure and the operation of Hungarian industry is guaranteed - and we do not pay unnecessarily. Ladies and gentlemen, The first national public utility provider responsible for the central management of the public utility service was established on 18 February 2015. The First National Public Service Provider has appeared in the universal gas service sector after the State's acquisition of the Main Gas. In this month, Main Gas will be granted the extension of the universal service licence to its national competence. After that, the public gas supply will be available throughout the country, and anyone will be able to request a transfer to the State's Main Gas. The public utility service provider will operate on a non-profit principle. This means that if it generates a profit, it will be turned back to the reduction of the costs or turned back to developments that are essential for the supply of gas. But it does not function as a service that you, my honourable left-wing colleagues, have unleashed on the neck of the country during their 1994-98 governance and then during the Gyurcsány-Bajna era. It does not operate as a service provider whose aim is to take as much money out of the pockets of Hungarians as possible and to get as much money out of the country as you did. The aim of this service provider is to ensure security of supply and to use each saved forint for the reduction of the overhead. Ladies and gentlemen, We have just come to the technical reasons for this amendment, because in this changed situation we must take action. It is necessary to adapt the regulation fairly in such a way that, as competition increases, no operator is forced to maintain the universal service if it is not in the interest of the company concerned, while other operators are given the opportunity to take over the cancelled activity. In fact, this proposal contains this: it provides an opportunity, it does not require it, but in the changed market conditions, I think it is absolutely justified to draft this proposal, all the more so because it is important to note that the law itself promised such a solution when the Gas Act was adopted, and since then this possibility has not been presented to the House. So we're gonna replace a hiatus, we're gonna make up for a shortage in the regulatory framework. More importantly, I would like to underline that it is most important that consumers and people's interests prevail during the transition, and that the continuity of their security of supply should be surrounded by various guarantee elements. Therefore, all actors involved in the transfer-over process should cooperate on a mandatory basis in order to ensure the smoothness of the changeover and the smoothness of the service. The bill makes it very clear that consumers are properly informed and precisely defines the reporting obligation that the parties must comply with in the course of the transfer. The proposal settles the relationship between the supplier and the receiving universal service provider and customers in the interest of users. In addition, the proposal also covers the regulation of important technical details of the changeover, such as the determination of the measuring station or the way in which the invoice is issued. The security of supply is also ensured by the fact that the universal service provider's authorisation returned can only be granted by an operator having the capacity to provide the customers received. We believe that it must be avoided that when the universal service is returned, consumers are left without gas, so the bill is also prepared to deal with this problem if an offer is not received at the request of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before you will also replace a regulatory hiatus, as I have already said. It creates strict conditions, but guarantees that those affected, i.e. the population and the small business community, will be able to get to the cheapest, most efficient service provider they can find. The adoption of this law, ladies and gentlemen, is an important element in safeguarding the reduction of the costs and continuing the reduction of the rent, and I therefore ask you with respect that, after the debate, you support this bill when it is decided. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Attila Gelencsér takes over his notary seat.]]
u2015-03-17-73	Thank you very much, Congressman Balla. I'll ask if the Secretary of State wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[Mrs. Lászlón Németh nods.]] Yeah. I give the floor to State Secretary Lászlóné Németh in a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-03-17-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Parliament, the proposal before you, is the 2008 XL on gas supply. It intends to amend law and rationalise the conditions for the operation of universal service providers. The amendment will make life easier for the company wishing to abandon universal service, but at the same time broadens and improves the legal guarantees of consumer security of supply. The government considers that this proposal broadens the room for manoeuvre and offers them new opportunities, removes an unreasonable restriction, and that businesses will then be given the opportunity to terminate their universal service provider activity if this decision is made and is in their interest and intention. [[11.50]] On the other hand, and at the same time, the amendment of the law gives other universal service providers the opportunity to take over this activity in a competitively neutral manner, to expand their supply area if their business interests and their vision so require and, of course, if an appropriate offer is made. This is also an opportunity for the State, as it can help market self-organization through the procedure of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, taking into account the lowest cost and the highest quality of service and security. For consumers, this amendment gives consumers a chance to use the supply of natural gas not from a company that makes it a statutory obligation, but from a company that actually wants to provide its customers on a market basis. To sum up, I would like to say to the amendment - what has already been said - that with the possibility of returning the universal service, with its detailed rules, the legislator has remained in debt to date, and we therefore agree with the Member that the legislative proposal before you will solve a long-standing regulatory deficiency. We believe that the proposal also responds to the current concerns of the sector and that the expectations of industry players have been incorporated. The government considers that this proposal does not restrict the right to competition, and even allows the freedom of universal service providers to apply entrepreneurship more widely than is currently the case. At the same time - and this is the most important thing for us - the legislative amendment focuses heavily on what is in the interests of consumers, on how to ensure the smoothness of supply on an ongoing basis. As has also been said, the amendment also sets out clear provisions for the operation of the public utility service and its expansion at national level, which is one of the most important tasks for this year at the moment, which is ahead of us. Consequently, the Government supports the individual MEP's motion and asks the Honourable Parliament to accept this legislative amendment proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-75	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Congressman Alpár Gyopáros, a representative of Fidesz, has recently announced that he has joined the bill as rapporteur. In the meantime, this can already be found in the Parliament's IT system. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, speeches will be held by the lead speaker within a 15-15-minute timeframe. First, I give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-17-76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My colleague György Balla, as rapporteur, presented us with a nice picture of the policy of reducing costs, and he really explained to us what this initiative, which was launched in December 2012, was actually good for. Of course, if we look back, it is clear that this is not due to 2012, but can be traced back to 2010, the change of government, but I would like to mention this later. The initial aim of the reduction was that the Hungarian families, as my fellow Member mentioned, who paid the highest gas price in Europe during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, should now remain at the gas, because we are going to amend the gas law - should get back something from the money that the MSZP governments allowed the companies they privatized to draw from the Hungarian families. Well, I think that we have done this, we have achieved this goal, because today Hungarian families pay 113 forints per cubic meter, 38 forints less than 151 forints per cubic metre instead of a cubic meter. While the gas price could have increased 15 times during the Gyurcsány government - 15 times! - It may have increased 15 times by entering the Hungarian Energy Office at the time by the leaders of these companies, and they announced all kinds of costs in a slash-like manner, these costs were accepted by the leaders of the Hungarian Energy Office in the same way and allowed to be incorporated into the prices, the prices that would in principle be considered as a price protected by the authorities in the framework of the universal service. And so it was, my fellow Members, that in 2008, when the impact of the global economic crisis was already felt on the energy market, at least in any way on the German gas exchange, the price of gas would not have decreased - once again in the protected market - in addition to cheap gas, but the price of gas rose most brutally. In addition, let us add that yesterday my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth allowed himself to lie in front of everyone in the Hungarian Parliament, saying that when the Orbán government came, he took away the gas price compensation. I would like to emphasise this once again, and I would also like to mention this: it is not true. So, in addition to the continuous increase in prices, in 2009, the Bajnai government, when the IMF brought the money that the Bajnai government spent to the last cent until the change of government - in Hungarian: it only left the unpaid transmission to the Orbán government - as requested, gas price compensation, which affected 962,000 families, by the way, more than 470 thousand families lived in the lowest possible poverty, and their immediate withdrawal of gas price compensation would have been 20-25 percent, with effect from 31 March 2010, with effect from 31 March 2010. Then the comrades put their heads together and realized that there was going to be an election, and they wanted to play the same charade as they did in 2006 with the VAT, so they got the Bajnai government to extend this moratorium by three months, so the gas price compensation should not expire on 31 March, but on 1 June. The first measure of the new government, Viktor Orbán's government, was that it froze the price increases, so it forbade accounting for all kinds of slashes and sewing them around the neck of Hungarian families; two: creating a special fund of 11 billion forints - right, Anna Nagy announced at the time, if you remember, it extended gas price compensation until 31 December. Therefore, the IMF had to pre-room for a while, because - I would like to say once again - the IMF sewed Bajnai and I into our necks the elimination of gas price compensation. Well, let's talk about some of the positive effects of the reduction, because the fact that we have managed to protect the safety of Hungarian families in a social way has managed to put Hungarian families in a position not to spend much of their salary on overhead costs, which has also had a serious economic impact. According to the calculations, the Hungarian families remained between 330 and 340 billion HUF by the end of last year due to the reduction of the rent. This is a large amount of money that, when entering the market, has meant serious economic effects, serious economic benefits for Hungary, including the increase in retail sales continued to grow for 17 months, and, on average, the 5,7 percent increase in 2014 can be regarded as a record for Europe. And this was a big part of the free money left over as a result of the reduction of the rent. But we can say the same thing, however, that the wealthier who still had money left, and those who could buy bonds, if you like, government bonds. This means that the Hungarian government debt, the Hungarian budget, could be financed from the saved money of the Hungarian people, at least part of it, and I think that is a very good sign. [[12.00]] Then there was another very important effect on the poorest: although the companies you privatized in their communication were constantly trying to pretend that Hungarian scams were stealing electricity, stealing gas all over the world in general, and otherwise they did not like to pay for the energy used, the purchased energy, and that is why there is a huge outflow - this outflow has decreased by HUF 23 billion in the last two years, this is huge money - the Hungarian families have also been freed from this type of debt. In any case, I would have liked these positive effects to be said. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Now let's look at the bill in front of us. In effect, Madam Secretary of State and Member, I would like to draw the Honourable Parliament's attention to one or two things in this bill, if I may. Hungarian retail consumers and other statutory users - and they are typically small businesses - as mentioned above - receive gas supply within the framework of the so-called universal service. In addition to the official price, the universal service provides a number of favourable conditions for users. These include the obligation to conclude contracts, maintain a mandatory customer service system and lay down rules on guaranteed care or general care. In order to ensure these benefits on a continuous basis, it is also necessary to regulate, in view of the freedom of undertakings, the case that the Secretary of State has also spoken about: if a company would decide to abandon the activities of universal service providers, in what circumstances it may do so. This bill seeks to ensure that retail and entrepreneurial customers from the company intending to leave the universal service activity continue to receive guaranteed gas supplies within the framework of the universal service. The aim of the proposal is therefore to protect and strengthen the interests of retail and small business consumers in such a way as to maintain and continue the reduction of the costs, while obliging service providers to guarantee security of supply at a high and continuous level. Therefore, the amendment also obliges the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office to award the authorisation granted back under strict rules, i.e. once again: it can be returned by strict rules, to the lowest consumer price and to the universal service provider offering the best offer from the point of view of security of supply. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the government's information, for the unified central management of the public utility service provider, the First National Public Service Provider Zrt. was established in February. He'll be in charge. The First National Public Service Provider enters the universal gas service market, providing retail and small business service, through Főgáz Zrt., which is owned by the State. The universal operator's license for Main Gas will cover the entire territory of our country, so the public gas service will be available throughout the country. From Nyíregyháza to Zalaegerszeg, from Salgótarján to Pécs all Hungarian families, all Hungarian households and eligible small entrepreneurs will also be able to apply for their registration to the state gas. The First National Public Service Provider is not a non-profit company - and we have said this many times - but will be a state-owned company operating on a non-profit basis, participating in the utility service market. As a good owner, the Hungarian state guarantees that the profits generated cannot be made in the usual manner, either from the company or from the country. The fair profit thus obtained will have to be spent on maintaining and continuing the reduction of the overhead and on security and improvement of the service. As promised, we intend to continue the reduction by market means while keeping the prices of public authorities at a low level. The State will compete with other universal service providers on a market basis, but it will serve Hungarian consumers with the lowest price and the most reliable service. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The policy of Fidesz and KDNP remains the cornerstone of the reduction of the rent, the social security of Hungarian families, the competitive advantage of Hungarian entrepreneurs, the economic sovereignty of Hungary, and therefore Fidesz-KDNP protects and sustains the reduction of the rent in the long term, in line with the signing, support and request of two and a half million Hungarians. The bill before us serves this purpose, so I ask you to support what is contained in the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-77	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2015-03-17-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I see that Árpád Habony has not worked so much on these keynote speeches, or has rather scissored past communication. If I may, Mr President, I would like to address one or two factual issues. Although the bill itself is not about what both speakers said in the first part of their speech, I would like to respond to these points in the first part of my speech. It can also be seen from the fact that this communication continues, because, as I mentioned, the proposal itself is not about - and this is also an interesting moment - as we have had before - that we have had professional debates on the natural gas law; now there are two big shots from Fidesz - one of them is the former commissioner - who want to convince us about past events. In fact, it has been said from my fellow Member, Mr Németh, that I lied at the last Parliament meeting because I dared say that Fidesz abolished the gas price compensation. But, as I have said, I would like to raise a few questions of fact and, in substance, to refute a statement which, whether it was Mr Balla or Szilárd Németh, as the author, has just been formulated here. The first is that what lies is that the Bajnai government will take a decision on 31 March and then extend it for three months, and then the Orbán government will extend it. And now he's dead on his own? So how did this happen? Then why didn't the Orbán government extend it? Yeah, because he had to be held at the IMF? For the IMF loan already spent by the Bajnai government? Then how did you buy MOL? As I recall, it was an IMF loan. These are factual lies, so Szilárd Németh lies and lies to me because this price compensation was abolished by Viktor Orbán's government - one. Two: Viktor Orbán's government abolished the wage substitute for the lowest salaries and introduced the single-key tax system, where hundreds of thousands of families with one child or no children, earning minimum wage, were put into an impossible state in addition to you abolishing gas price compensation. If you are talking about 2010, my fellow Member Balla, how you took over: in 2010, you did this, this is what happened, and by the end of 2012, these families were impossible. And you can boast about the growth of retail sales, you have to see, I remember that this year the Hungarian GDP turned to minus, so it was a recession, and during this period you have transformed the entire income situation and relations in Hungary by making even less earners and earning more. It was pushed, and the winner of your tax relief and tax policy was 80 percent the upper third of Hungarian society. This is what you have done to the little people, the hardworking Hungarian people, as you put it. And that has not changed to this day, which is the case to this day, and you have put him in such an impossible position by the end of 2012. So what they have taken over and where they have taken these people: I think that every research speaks for itself, that there are now nearly four million people living in Hungary under the minimum living standards. The second point is that Congressman Balla said that these international companies were carrying 1000 billion forints. Congressman, you have paid $1,000 billion to multinational companies and suspicious offshore companies over the past few years. [[12.10]] E.ON has over 300 billion, and the risk you didn't inherit is whether or not you have to pay for the gas you didn't take over, but you bought it. They bought the risk that the gas they didn't take would have to be paid off or not. This is why you paid more than HUF 300 billion for the reservoirs and the gas inside. They bought MOL's stock package from a Russian company with a suspicious background, if I remember correctly, with tax-paying funds of HUF 250 billion. You paid for this. How'd they buy Main Gas? This is where we heard the major gas fell into the state. No, they bought it for thirty-something billion forints. The Metropolitan Waterworks were also purchased, and the Suez in Pécs paid for. [[György Balla intervenes.]] 3 billion forints of taxpayers' money collected from the Hungarian people as a transaction tax, which they collected as various, forty-something taxes from the Hungarian people, was paid from it. You paid nearly HUF 1000 billion for the reduction of the rent. On one side, they took it away from the companies, people in the checks saw that it was less, and they collected it from their taxes, raised it, and these companies were paid off. You paid these companies out of the Hungarian people's money. It's easy to cut the rent like this. That's why the whole story you're telling here is a lie. They paid hard money for it. [[György Balla intervenes.]] And this bill itself is an abuse of the market advantage set by law. You will now bring in legislation and allow me to quote the Secretary of State of Aradsk in the last gas dispute, when I asked him what would happen to universal service providers if their contract expires in June this year. With regard to your accusation, which concerns me, that we want to exclude universal service providers from access to gas, I would like to say, and to reassure Mr President, that we have started preparing this legislation, we will discuss it here in March. There is no such thing as - what I said - that it is difficult to run in a running race with a bound leg. Of course, I read the online newspaper, too, and it contained the usual benign and pre-speculated article, which reminds me of the saying that when you asked György Moldova in his book János Horvát about Cuba, how true that is, Moldova, who also wrote a book about Cuba, said: "Please, it is so true that even the opposite is not true." It's in the report. Compared to this, an individual amendment comes in, politicians come in, the profession is now pushed into the background, and, in fact, a law is being introduced here that allows universal service providers to conclude their long-term contract, you are already at the state-owned MVM and its gas dealers in gas trading, and you are free to determine for whom the gas will be supplied. Obviously, they will support the public company, while universal service providers will be forced to return universal service provider privileges. So, with this law, you're promoting this, making it easier. Returning here to your statement: if you were serious about wanting to protect the reduction of the rent and even continue, you should have voted here about half an hour ago to include the bill, the series of articles about the need to give the Hungarian people the benefit of the current price reduction on the international market. You did not vote for this. You are of a nonprofit nature... I can no longer understand what this utility company will be like, because we have listened to Madam Secretary of State, that she is not a nonprofit, and then a Member, that she is not of a non-profit or non-profit nature. I have never heard of such a legal category in my life that it is a nonprofit company, which does not seek profit. Then I'll ask you where the profits of the current international market and the Russian gas dealership at MVM are about HUF 20-25 billion. Where is he? I asked in writing, I asked here in Parliament. I didn't get an answer. Where is he? Where is the benefit of the price reduction from the Russian gas trade, where is the benefit of the price drop on the international market? If they talk about a nonprofit, they give this to the Hungarian people. Why did you object to it? The other thing is that there were those who benefited extremely well in this reduction process. You mentioned multinational companies. I only mention István Garancsi, with whom the Prime Minister is very happy to go to a football game and show up together. I'm talking to MET Zrt. When there was cheap gas on the gas market, we heard that from Szilárd Németh, it didn't get to the Hungarian people either, but to an offshore company with a confused background. You said that you would also reduce the cost of energy for businesses, not just for your population, and then read news that this is the suspicious background of MET Zrt. is about to conclude a contract with Magyar Telekom and sell gas and electricity to Hungarian businesses. Oh, you thought you were gonna squeeze out the multinationals, bring your buddies in on the other side, and they're gonna pump out the money you think the multinationals have pumped out so far? That's what happens. That's what's going on, and I'm going to be very curious about who the suppliers will be in this new utility service. Well, I have my assumptions. So, as long as they squeeze out the multinationals, they're bringing in their own buddies' gas companies, offshore companies. It also lands abroad, and it does not enrich the Hungarian budget, but goes abroad without paying taxes here in Hungary. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] So that's your reduction in your rent and that's your lie, and I think with these billings, if you really think it's professional, you don't have to come here for that kind of reason. So I'm rejecting the various charges here. The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will not support this legislation, and we are very sorry that the Ministry did not bring its own professional proposal here, but in a proposal from individual representatives. Once again, there is legislation that will benefit Hungarians, not Hungarians, but various offshore riders. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-79	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask the KDNP faction if any of the Members would like to speak now. [[No signal.]] No. In this case, Congressman János Volner, lead speaker of Jobbik. You have the floor, please.
u2015-03-17-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There was more that we agreed on in Congressman György Balla's speech and speech. For example, Hungary needed to take its energy questions into its own hands. Hungary needed that a strategic sector, which would not have been sold in the mind of the state's leadership in countries with a happier fate than us, was effectively abandoned by the socialists, and that it should be taken back into Hungarian hands again, and that we must ensure that the operation of the money pump that characterized energy is stopped. However, I also think it is important to say that it is not enough to buy back, it is not enough to take power into state control, it is also important to point out exactly what solutions are needed in the future and what needs to be done to this end. At the time when the E.ON case was completed, the transaction in which various experts estimated that Hungary paid 200-300 billion of the taxpayers' money for the re-purchased storage facilities was paid for the large German company in order to be willing to leave Hungary silently without opening a bank of EU infringement proceedings. These taxpayers' money, these payments, were included in the hidden costs of the reduction. [[12.20]] Here is the MET case, a case where Fidesz leading politicians, personally related to the Prime Minister's acquaintances, receive the right to dispose of a gas pipeline with limited transport capacity, the HAG gas pipeline, to bring natural gas to Hungary, and not to compete with market players, but to select a narrow group of friendly interests that gives them a competitive advantage, and which makes so much money in the process of reducing costs - HUF 50 billion in one such step, ladies and gentlemen - that with this one transaction, the company could become one of the top 10 taxpayers. So if we say that the reduction of the rent is a good business for the Hungarian families, then we also need to see that the compensation for the reduction of the rent is exactly the result of the Hungarian family's money, and then the government uses revenues from various other tax revenues to reduce the rent, and it is also important to see that most of the money was not made by Hungarian families, but by narrow economic interest groups close to the government. It is also worth seeing what the purchase of MOL shares in large energy sales meant. We agreed that we should not have sold MOL shares, especially in the same proportion as the socialist governments did. Once again, however, there is no doubt - let us take a look at the development of stock exchange prices - Hungary suffered a huge loss of purchasing a temporarily valued paper from investors at its current market rate, even though it would have had other options. I also think it is important to say - I carefully noted under the words of Congressman György Balla - that the number that Mr. President mentioned does not stand up to it, according to the State Audit Office, with a noble simplicity. Mr. Congressman said that Hungarian families saved 334 billion at the reduction of the rent, saving 170 thousand forints per family. I am an economic politician, of course I know the content of all economic laws, for example, I am also familiar with the State Audit Office's report on 2013, according to which households' expenditure on housing and household energy decreased by 3.8 percent in 2013 at current prices. These figures, fellow Members, do not have a thank-you relationship with what Member György Balla said on behalf of Fidesz as rapporteur. It was a 3.8 percent decrease, not 23-24 percent, as my fellow Member mentioned. And if anyone would like to argue with me, or if they do not, God, with the State Audit Office, I would like to remind them that there is a President of the State Audit Office who signed and noted this proposal, more precisely, who, in 2010, took an oath as a Fidesz Member of Parliament within the Parliament, so that negative data distortion against the government is hardly possible to accuse him. But it is worth checking out who had the idea of reducing the rent, who started pushing for the process of reducing the rent within the Hungarian Parliament. I have recently confronted you with the fact that, by presenting my own amendments, the broker scandal, which is currently underway at HUF 300 billion in damage as it stands, I have made all the necessary amendments in writing at the Parliament. No but I quote myself from September 13th, 2010, when there was no news or ash in the Parliament of the Fidesz announcement of the reduction of gas prices in Viennese gas exchanges at a price 30-40 percent or even 50 percent lower than the Hungarian prices, and these prices are significantly above the gas level available in the neighbouring countries. Ladies and gentlemen! On 13 September 2010, I pointed out that the Hungarian people were disproportionately expensive to natural gas. There wasn't a fidesz reduction back then. At the same time, I urged that we set up a transparent comparative system based on international data, a regulatory system that would enable the country to effectively implement this reduction by reference to the prices of other countries. In November 2010, two months after the previous speech, I again charged the government with too high gas prices. I quote literally myself: the gas costs 30-40 percent more than in Austria, for example. I have again called for a monitoring system for gas prices that would enable the country to break down these gas prices. I also urged - given that the price formula regulating gas prices has been removed from the control of Parliament and has become ministerial competence - that regulation should be transparent, that natural gas prices should not be regulated on the basis of arbitrary criteria, but that this should be done on the basis of pre-set principles. At the same time, I called for the construction of new gas pipelines and the diversification of our gas supply sources, because if gas comes to Hungary from several directions, we rely on several sources of natural gas, thanks to competing natural gas sources, we can also get to consumers much cheaper. Not only do we have to break down prices, but we also have to make sure we get gas at a good price. These proposals, which were the basis for a subsequent reduction in Fidesz's overhead, and which, when said, the Prime Minister made a very diligent note of, were already formulated in 2010. In July 2011, I reminded the government that it had promised to protect Hungarian families from the arbitrariness of multinational companies. Even then, there was still no Fidesz reduction, only Jobbik urged people to be protected from the multinationals and to break down high gas and electricity prices in Hungary. I quote literally what I said: We pay the most in Hungary for electricity in Europe at purchasing power parities, it costs €25.66 per 100 kilowatt hour electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, we confronted the government at that time - why didn't there be a reduction in the rent immediately when the necessary steps, as I have said, were completely obvious? In the same way, in terms of gas prices, I confronted the government with the fact that - I quote myself once again, after Bulgaria, the price of natural gas is the highest in Hungary, and it also costs EUR 26.92 on a purchasing power basis. These were the facts on which - and what we have heard back from Congressman György Balla's speech as the lead speaker - Fidesz has begun to reduce the costs. It is basically that Árpád Habony made a many-spoken better proposal and then orchestrated this later on on to fidesz sounds, which, by the way, was somewhat lyed out. But I also provided proof of the irrefutable government policy that while prices of natural gas in Europe could only increase by 7.7 percent due to world market price changes, Eurostat, the Statistical Office of the European Union, reported that prices in Hungary increased by 19,6 percent in the second half of 2010, under the governance of Fidesz. So what happened, ladies and gentlemen? The second Orbán government took over the steering pole in 2010, and the European Union's statistical office records the facts: while the price of natural gas increased by only 7.7 percent in Europe, according to current world market price changes, there was an increase of 19,6 percent in Hungary under the government of Fidesz. These are factual data from the Statistical Office of the European Union. And what happened here? [[12.30]] In the first half of Fidesz's governance, immediately in the first year, a significant increase in prices is made by 19,6 percent, compared to 7.7% in Europe, and then the amount artificially charged by the Fidesz government, when they allow the price of natural gas to be increased in a large proportion, will be taken back by the government by means of a process called a reduction in the cost of gas. So first they raise prices, then they reduce them, and then they tell us how good it is to cut the rent. Ladies and gentlemen. These facts, these data. Here, too, we have said that the formation of the price formula is entrusted to ministerial self-indulgent and ministerial authority; that companies can charge prices in Hungary that they do not even try to do at home, in Western Europe, because the legislative parliament does not allow this. I quote myself: "It has not led to competition in the market, nor to price flexibility; it has developed a priceless system both up and down as a result of the bad system. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What happened? With the introduction of official prices, Fidesz fixed the development of gas prices at a level where they were just high. When the price of natural gas started to decline in Western Europe, following global trends, the price of natural gas remained high in Hungary, as it could not be reduced, because they were fixed so high with an administrative price formula, a poorly designed regulation, that it could not decrease. The government itself has taken care of this. It is also important to see what took place in Hungarian energy in parallel to this process. Four Hungarian power plants have ceased in 2012, no new capacity has been created, and the investment rate in the energy sector has fallen to a historic low point in the past. These are the steps on which much more attention should have been paid, much sooner to hear and heed Jobbik's professional suggestions quoted here. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-81	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone from the LMP Group wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, in that case, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, the notary of the Parliament, will be next. Here you go.
u2015-03-17-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, By amending the Gas Act, the government wants to make it easier for someone else, possibly the public utility provider, to replace foreign gas suppliers who have been forced out of the Hungarian market. The declared objective, i.e. the acquisition of public utility services in the Community and the strengthening of their non-profit-making nature, is essentially sympathetic to LMP. These services are essential living conditions for the average consumer in our climate and social conditions, where there is room for restrictions on private interests and private profits. However, the way the Orbán government seeks to achieve this goal raises serious doubts about the real intentions and the good faith of the government. If we are talking about the public ownership of utility services, it does not mean exclusively state-owned, party-paying, opaque mammoth companies in the LMP concept. Public property is municipal property, and even community ownership, as for example the water utility companies that the Orbán government is making impossible. There hasn't been much credit for municipal waste management, water supply or chimney sweeping companies in recent years. They're in need of billions of losses, and they're down in a row. In some cases, disaster management has to take their place because of a completely flawed public service policy. If that's the future of gas supply, it's the alarm. For example, LMP would be sympathetic to local government-owned energy suppliers, which do not only sell Russian imported gas, but also use local opportunities, biomass, geothermal energy, solar and wind energy, and are controlled by the local community, as in Austria and Germany. If the government instead creates public gas trading companies and ends the reform at this point, it is not XXI. 20th century, 20th century. It quotes the darkest periods of the century. On the other hand, we see that in the great nationalisation heat, some government-wide private companies live and thrive. For example, the MET, which is close to Viktor Orbán's friends, is partly owned by Russian and offshore, for the sake of which laws are amended, the State MVM is lost so that the most profitable business can be taken over by MET, and it is politely placed in the place of the outgoing multinational service providers, allowing hundreds of billions of people to become a difficult, transparent, but apparently close to Fidesz private ownership circle. The Orbán government doesn't seem to have any problem with private property in public services if profits go to friends. In such cases, it is also okay to have offshore companies and foreign co-owners behind it. For LMP, public ownership is not synonymous with state downtime, but we would be pleased to see that municipalities and local communities have a greater role in providing or controlling energy services. We consider the restriction of private interests to be eligible in this area, but only if it applies to everyone. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-17-83	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is now an opportunity for an independent Member to speak. I'll see if anyone wants to live with that. [[There's no candidate.]] No. In this case, two-minute speeches will follow if someone comes forward. I'm not encouraging anyone, I'm just stating. But since no one has come forward, we will continue with pre-notification speeches. It is Mr Lajos Kepli who does not wish to take advantage of the opportunity to speak in advance. We're making progress, just keep doing this. [[Defiance.]] I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] I shouldn't have encouraged you so much; Congressman Cook, MSZP, here.
u2015-03-17-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I probably misunderstood Mr. President's encouragement, and I thought it was time to speak. But yet, not repeating what has already been said, here again we see that there is a kind of voluntarian, not transparent, little piece of legislation for itself. I mean, if that were not the case, then the Ministry would not keep avoiding the discussions that should be carried out, and I would not waste it on a Member, if I were to say so, to submit these proposals. I will, of course, reassure my fellow Member, who does not think that he, sitting at home alone in his girl's room, has thought about the problems of today's public service system in Hungary, and of course he sees it this way. [[György Balla intervenes.]] But if we think back a little about what this House had discussed before and what it didn't, then one can see that there was a transaction where the Hungarian State bought gas reservoirs, and the State Audit Office did not examine this in its report last year. In our speech at the time, we also said that the examination of the State Audit Office could indeed have covered this non-small-scale, energy-oriented and in itself, we could argue that it was 350 or 500 billion forints, its transparency and non-clearity. We didn't think you'd be able to determine anything, so we thought you might as well write down that it's clear and it's working very well. That wasn't in the SAO's report. If we add the 125 billion forints of MET and MVM 120 usque to this, we are talking about a lot of money again. And if I add that yesterday we discussed the energy strategy, its amendment, there is an energy strategy in Hungary, which was adopted by the Parliament in 2011, and the energy strategy should have been reviewed every two years, and it should have been brought before the Hungarian Parliament, it should have been discussed, obviously according to its order in the committees and here in plenary. [[12.40]] In 2013, neither of the governing parties felt the need, nor did the government, to report on the change in the energy strategy, and - it is now almost two years away - it will not even be in 2015. The Secretary of State of Aradsk has, by the way, given a certain promise, we expect you to fulfill that promise this year. But why am I bringing this up? There are many things in the energy strategy that obviously remained the same, but there are so many major changes that the SAO sometimes does not examine, or at least does not report to us, which may affect Hungary's path towards energy supply and security over the next period. To mention just a few of these: the closure of the four power plants, Paks II, the reduction of the rent and the establishment of the public utility company to be negotiated. Ladies, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies Does this really not affect the energy strategy? Is it really not affected by the goals it seeks to achieve? You really don't move the vector a bit to the right or to the left? Are we going the same way? No. Yesterday, you asked for permission - and today, obviously, it makes a little more sense, we had to change the energy strategy, you asked for permission - to be the government that can now determine what needs are on the primary side, so what needs are on the energy producer's side. With today's presentation, if the secondary side, i.e. the side of this distribution, of course, is already in the hands of the state, then we can see here that the meaning of this is that, both on the primary side and on the secondary side, on both the producing side and on the user side, the state will put its hands on this market and energy in its entirety. I don't think you should be so confident, and I don't think you have to believe that you're flawless. This is influenced by the market at some level in the larger part of the world; of course, the state should play a greater role in this. That's why we said that when the state bought energy companies, it should be regulated. It should be regulated and checked, because if everything is now on their side, whether from the producer side or from the distribution side, and they are not able to do their job properly - because ten out of ten are not good decisions - then unfortunately, we can see that these systems will be developed inaccessiblely and not necessarily safely. Yesterday, they convinced themselves that the government should decide on the quality and quantity of primary-side procurement, so we do not need to inform the Parliament, the energy strategy will not come to us for review, yet they will completely reshape the whole Hungarian energy market, and they ask us to believe that this will be okay. I would just like to add in brackets that they are doing this by failing to carry out the appropriate consultations, or at least not in that form, and that is why, in a voluntarist way, we are faced with this in the form of an individual motion, which, I think, will completely rewrite the Hungarian energy market today. Our position is to ensure that universal service providers have access to competitively priced natural gas; it is also necessary to ensure that all consumers receive cheaper and higher-quality supplies, which is why we are confused about the fact that they do not ensure, for example, that Russian import gas decreased by 40% compared to last October, that consumers cannot receive this 40% price difference. And what do they spend the money they make here? Obviously, my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, has already asked that the money that went missing at MET, of course, everyone is also interested in where it went missing. Well, if you're good at farming, obviously you can get to them, but this could be public money. It is worth thinking about, and under these circumstances, in such opaque circumstances - and once again, maintaining the risk of error, already on the side of the government, so both sides will be supervised by the government - if there is one mistake, it will be a big mistake. Maintaining the risk, I think it's a little more worthwhile to step back in this, and it's worth stepping back to the profession. They don't mean any harm, only you want their business. Please think about this one more time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-17-85	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I note that no further comments have been made. The general debate is hereby closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to react. [[On the sign of György Balla:]] Congressman Balla has the floor. Here.
u2015-03-17-86	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to go backwards in your comments. I can't stop myself from reacting to the stupidity of how such a bill is presented to this House as a motion for a bill. I don't know what makes you think that if you put forward a proposal as a representative, it's great, and you can squawk about it right away, and you do it regularly; if a pro-government Member makes a proposal, what kind of voluntarist solution is that - to quote you exactly. This proposal is not so complicated that a Member who has traditionally dealt with energy could not present it, defend it, interpret it and explain it. What is your attitude to be free, but not from the government side? [[Dr. László Kács: This is a very bad question.]] Let's not joke about this. [[Dr. László Kács: I'm not kidding, I'm serious!]] I would like to respond to the comments of the LMP. On the one hand, thank you very much, it was pleasant for me. [[Defiance.]] It was pleasant because I was reassured that the Green Party does not want Hungary to be okay. What they're doing to Paks could have happened, but thank God for that. I also thought about what the congresswoman suggested. It was about the proposal that, although you support the community ownership of service providers, it would be much better if this community were not the Hungarian state, but local governments, and, let's say, gas suppliers were operating as the water utility companies were operating. Madam Member, if gas suppliers were to operate as the water utility companies were operating, we would be frozen, so I do not recommend this route. But once again, I thank you for your contribution, and I think that we have heard a very fair comment from a green party, the Congresswoman. Mr Volner, on the one hand, I am pleased that there is a party in the Hungarian Parliament who thinks about energy, community property and state ownership in a similar way to Fidesz. I think it's very right; it would have been great if there had been more of these parties before. The fact that you did not get into Parliament earlier is really not your fault, nor the fact that the socialists have been able to govern a number of times in this country, unfortunately. But playing the game of who had the proposal and who first dealt with the reduction of the rent, I don't think it's necessarily worthy. The fact -- maybe it wasn't or wasn't the story -- that between 1998 and 2002, during the first Orbán government, when you weren't here in Parliament, the world was still talking about how we really stopped the gas price increases. You may recall that one of the most important elements of the 2002 campaign was that the socialists wanted to deny it until now, and they claimed that there would be no gas price increase for them. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Shut up!]] This debate could only arise because it wasn't under the Orbán government, and we knew exactly what the socialists were up to; they might remember it, and they even said quite slowly that there would be no gas price increase. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I said shut up! And I'm saying it out loud. Gyopáros Alpár: Water for him! The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman Bertalan Tóth's comment, if I may, will be a little longer here. As I understand it, in the first round, the Member accused us of buying back Main Gas, buying back gas reservoirs, buying back E.ON's gas business, and buying back a lot of things. [[12.50]] Congressman, the news is true. [[Zoltán Haughty, the MOL!]] The thing is, thanks to God, that time has passed - I understand that even when you are young, you have nostalgia in this matter. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Don't get personal.]] - when state ownership went through a simple process of nationalization, even the attic was swept off. Today, if the state would like to acquire an earlier private property, then the fact is that it has to buy it. But the insolence of it [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] And what you're talking about is what we should have bought back if you hadn't sold it. From all the stories you've been talking about, and you're saying as an accusation that we bought it back, you wouldn't have had to do anything if you hadn't given it away; if you didn't give it to foreign owners, and they wouldn't have allowed foreign owners to get a profit of HUF 1000 billion out of the country clean. You shouldn't have touched it. Perhaps we shouldn't have been worried about public money then, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Pride: No!]] when, by the way, you and your ancestors kept selling everything that could be moved in Hungary? ! [[Zoltán Grimlock, you stole me! That's the difference.]] And where did that money go? Because if I remember correctly, the budget was handed over with the highest budget deficit, the biggest debt. Where's the money you got for selling different service providers? They've been doing this for ten years, and now they're asking anyone that, unlike you, they bought it back? Do you have any skin on your face? [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] Do you have any skin on your face? ! [[Zoltán Grimlock: I told you, shut up! Interview from Fidesz: Will you say that for years? Zoltán Grimlock: I will say this for three years!]] On the issue of gas storage: the fact is that today, in the Hungarian gas storage facilities, which are state-owned, there can be more than 6,000 billion cubic metres of gas. Total household consumption is between 3000 billion and 4000 billion; with industry we go over 8,000 cubic meters. If there is something that will, by the way, create Hungary's security of supply, then this is it. And to object to this in a situation where, by the way, there is a war at our eastern border - let us say it - and there is absolutely no way to know for sure whether there is an adequate amount of gas coming to Hungary at all times, but in the Hungarian gas reservoirs we can store so much that if it is necessary, we can also send gas to Serbia, and then we can hear from the left side of the opposition what a tragedy it was, that we bought it back, where we can't put it. What do you think you're doing? Or what do you think of this country? ! [[László Varju intervenes. Intercoms from Jobbik and Fidesz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Speak freely, I won't disturb you in this... [[László Varju: Thank you very much!]]
u2015-03-17-87	Thank you so much for helping me with the session. Feel free to continue, Congressman, okay? I'll run the meeting.
u2015-03-17-88	If I may, I would like to return to one more thing, because it's more... [[Intervention from the ranks of the MSZP and the independent representatives.]] I understand, you have to talk about this, even if it is not clear what you are saying, but of course this story also had to involve the Fidesz companies - that was the task. My dear, good socialist fellow Members. Here's the thing. Let's get out of your head. So assuming, but not allowing, that one word of what you say is true - and I'm not inclined to believe it anyway - let's get out of your logic. They're talking about how well Fidesz's nearby companies have benefited from the reduction of the rent - it's great. People pay 324 billion forints less for the rent. Ladies and gentlemen, When there was no reduction, people had to pay more. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: They made more money!]] Then where did you put the money? Where'd that money go? [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't say that.]] The thing is, now that they're paying less, is it any good for companies? Then your companies, Congressman Grimlock, how good did your friends get? How good could they have been? [[Zoltán Grimlock: What friends are you talking about? I didn't snoop with anyone, man. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, what kind of friends you have, I don't know... [[Zoltán Grimlock: We see yours!]] Congressman, I don't want to bring up this morning's debate, you know... [[Zoltán Grimlock: Shut up, I tell you!]] The point is, it's... [[Zoltán Grimlock: Sit down!]] that, compared to the change of government in 2010, which you promised not to increase gas prices, you said slowly, for a long time, your first prime minister asked how many years you were saying it for ten years, if you said it fifteen times compared to that; the price of gas was doubled by 100 percent, the price of electricity. And we reduced natural gas by 25 percent, 24.5 percent electricity, 22.5 percent district heating prices. Congressman Volner has contested this, but the thing is, I think the simplest thing to do is to go home and pull out his gas bill. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Be careful what you wish for, for you will have it!]] He takes out his electric bill, he asks someone for a telehero bill, and he sees that it's actually true - so everything we've said [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Be careful what you wish for, for you will have it!]] that the price decreased by 25 percent before the reduction in the cost of the rent. The logic - and now I am sorry to go back to Congressman Volner, who said so - was that we increased prices in the first half of the government, and then reduced them compared to this, was rebutted by himself. Then his next sentence was that we were about to fix the prices. As I understand it, we have fixed the prices, and it means that the government's first decision was to re-introduce an official price - because the socialists even entrusted the foreigners with setting the price - we have re-introduced an official price and maximized the official price at the price that we had taken over. So if one of Mr Volner's statements is true that we have fixed the price, it would be quite difficult to increase it compared to that. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: The VAT!]] Obviously, it wasn't like that. As a first step, we were able to freeze prices and reduce them in the next steps. I'd like to get to the point... This is not necessarily the subject of today's debate, but for the sake of easier understanding between Jobbik and Fidesz, I think it is worth giving some thought to this too. I am speaking to you first of all about this because you have no crime in this matter; those sitting next to you are well. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: This is what was recorded!]] They've sold everything, they've always raised a price, and now they're coming with a proposal on how to cut a price. I'm asking them not to do this. Don't make suggestions like that, because people get sick in their stomachs. The moment the socialists talk about price cuts, they get scared because they know exactly how much they're going to raise. At the moment when the Socialists are talking about tax cuts, people know exactly that they are preparing to raise taxes. So I think we should forget about them from this story. It's not worth wasting your breath on anyway. They can't tell the truth anyway. But I'd like to be on a partnership with you on the matter of reducing the rent, because I think that what you want and what we want is not far from each other. I do not dispute that proposals could be made in 2010 but could not be implemented. That's the difference between the opposition and the government. Our task was to turn a total failure in 2010 into a strong state capable of confronting EU bureaucrats, fighting these battles, and confronting multinational companies. First, the Hungarian state had to be strengthened, because the Hungarian state practically did not exist when we took over the government in 2010. That is why there was a need for constitution, fundamental laws, and countless other decisions. And the moment we did this task, by 2013 we created the opportunity to do the reduction of the rent. So I think we should stop arguing about when and how we should like to be happy that at least we have this and try to help each other do it. This is what I would ask of my honourable right-wing colleagues, and I would like to thank the Government for the support of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-89	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America on the draft law on the publication of the Convention on Social Security until closure. The submission is made in T/3484. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[13.00]] First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Sombor, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-17-90	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It is of particular importance for the Government of Hungary to continuously develop its bilateral relations with other countries in a way that opens up new opportunities for our country, our citizens and our economic actors. It also serves to initiate the ratification of the international treaty by Parliament. In general, the Convention on bilateral social security relations lays down rules leading to a balanced legal environment based on the common interests of the Contracting Parties and which is very favourable to the relevant circle. Thanks to the Convention, already extensive Hungarian-American relations are being expanded with another important element, which is expected to stimulate mobility between the two countries, primarily at the level of the citizens insured. However, the provisions of the international treaty not only open up a new space for individuals, but also provide economic operators with mutual benefits. Bearing in mind the fact that the United States of America is not a close state in the geographical sense, the Convention primarily implements the coordination of compulsory pension benefits. However, it will also be possible to partially harmonise the benefits provided under Hungarian health insurance by establishing rules on the care of persons with disabilities. As a direct beneficiary of future regulation, persons who have completed periods of insurance under the law of the two States may obtain, by combining the periods concerned, entitlements which would not be available to them in the absence of the Convention. The Convention also has tangible practical benefits in terms of labour flow linked to economic activity in another State, by defining the law applicable to the persons concerned, to stimulate bilateral economic relations. Under the new framework, the law governing work in the territory of another country is clearly laid down. The international treaty lays down the principle of maintaining the rights to benefits acquired under the law of the Contracting States, so as to ensure the acquisition of entitlements in cases where, in the absence of the Convention, the autonomous application of the law of the two States could not give rise to entitlement. Dear House, The Convention is an international treaty and may enter into force after ratification by the Parliament. Since the Government of Hungary has already recognised through the signing of the Convention that the Contracting Parties have reached an agreement in the interests of Hungary and of the people concerned, I therefore ask the House to support the bill for the approval of the Convention by Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-91	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I will ask if anyone from the Fidesz Group wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] No. In that case, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here.
u2015-03-17-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Negotiations for the establishment of the Convention on Social Security began in 2007 on the initiative of the US Party. The opening of the negotiations was also justified by the fact that Hungarians living in the United States have repeatedly contacted the predecessor of the EMMI by limiting their pension under US law if they reside in Hungary. On the basis of the requests received by the public to the National Health Insurance Fund, it was also concluded that there was an increasing need for some social security issues to be resolved in the same way as the other bilateral conventions in relation to the two countries. About 3,000 persons living in the United States who have independent Hungarian pension rights are entitled to a pension. Since the Convention regulates in detail the provisions relating to the insurance obligations of workers and, in this context, the justification of the bill itself covers bilateral economic issues, it is worth mentioning these economic relations. In our view, bilateral political and economic relations are threatened and, in the long term, linked to the implementation of this social agreement, if the interests of legal international companies present in Hungary are violated. According to our information, American companies, among other things, have raised objections about tax evasion in Hungary and various corruption suspects. Several times, they offered their assistance to the tax authority to correct the situation, but they did not receive any meaningful answers. This is likely to be linked to the measure that has not yet been applied to EU and NATO countries by the United States, according to which government officials have been banned from the territory of the United States. According to the Socialist Party, such events, such cases, do not help bilateral relations. According to the justification of the bill on the agenda, the United States is one of Hungary's key and decisive overseas partners. However, the question arises as to how high a partner is a country whose foreign minister and the Hungarian Prime Minister accuses me of fuzzy and fussy babbling, and who should be sued immediately for defamation and damage to the right to a good reputation, and how the act affects bilateral relations if an American agent is asked for his immunity. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, Péter Szijjártó called it the most important question at the end of last year, whether we will be able to restore genuine ally relations with the United States. I think that the events, acts and sentences mentioned above are not conducive to this. I am convinced that the most effective way to restore federal relations and close conflicts is to say such sentences against a country which is otherwise considered to be a priority, by Hungary seeking a high level of economic relations, if it were to count on the cooperation of the United States. The justification of the bill on the agenda also highlights that US companies have invested more than USD 9 billion in Hungary, making the United States the fourth largest investor in our country. In addition to the development of economic relations after the regime change, it is unprecedented that the current Prime Minister has not been invited to the White House since 2010. János Martonyi didn't even meet the Foreign Ministers except for a visit to the beginning of a term. I think that makes you think. They also prove that the government and Fidesz have broken ties with the former Allied Republicans, as Viktor Orbán had good relations with the Republican Senator McCain before, and we know how he feels about the Hungarian Prime Minister. On this basis, we are very confident that the adoption of this agreement, despite its history, can help to improve bilateral relations, and because of the content of the agreement itself, the Hungarian Socialist Party supports the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-93	Thank you, too. I will ask if anyone from the KDNP Group wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see that. In that case, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here.
u2015-03-17-94	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The proposal before us will, of course, be supported by the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary. We see the process - of course, this does not affect the United States so much in this case - that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens are fleeing mainly to Western Europe to ensure their livelihood. I'd call them economic refugees. Unlike Prime Minister, I would call them economic refugees, not adventurers. [[13.10]] We can talk about 6-7-800,000 people here. Of course, if the United States is to be taken into account, the 3-4 thousand people, even on the basis of the justification of the law, who are engaged in employment in the United States, are minimal compared to this, but it is also important for them to have such a convention, especially because we trust that, on the one hand, the situation can change with the change of the person of the governing parties or the governing parties in Hungary, and on the other hand, in the hope that these people, because they are refugees, love for their country may be an important fact, they think that they will return to Hungary after a certain period of time. In this regard, we might think that such agreements can help them to return, and if we look at the terms of the agreement, they can be entitled to pensions or other benefits here in Hungary, on the basis of a more favourable eligibility relationship. This can strengthen their thinking of returning either in the hope of a more relaxed old age or earlier, as they are assured that their employment in the United States will be included in the calculation of entitlement during a return to Hungary. Therefore, I say once again that we are in favour of this proposal, but we would encourage the government not only with such agreements, but also with other economic measures, by effectively boosting the economy, reducing the situation or competitive disadvantage of Hungarian workers, to achieve the goal of staying at home, not only from the point of view of the inclusion of the pension, but also from other points of view, for a young Hungarian or an older Hungarian person, and getting their full eligibility status here in Hungary, rather than having their full working time included in the calculation of the period of entitlement, so that their entitlement is not compromised. But, I will say it again, because we agree with the objectives set out in it, whether with regard to things declared for economic cooperation for companies or with the parts of the Convention concerning individuals, so our faction will support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-95	Thank you very much. I will ask the LMP Group if it wishes to speak now. [[Erzsébet Schmuck nods.]]
u2015-03-17-96	[[Without sound:]] Thank you for the floor...
u2015-03-17-97	Here you go.
u2015-03-17-98	[[Without sound:]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The May Other in Politics has so far consistently supported social... Speak? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I'm sorry, just because you don't count the time... [[It's a portable microphone.]] Thank you very much. So the May Other has consistently supported social security agreements so far, because we believe that the aim of these bilateral agreements is right: to mutually increase the social security of citizens of both countries, to guarantee the right of citizens who work in the territory of another country to benefit. We consider it important that Hungarian citizens who happen to work in the United States of America for a shorter or longer period of time and pay contributions fairly should not suffer a disadvantage when returning to Hungary and reaching the retirement age because they have worked outside the territory of Hungary for part of their lives, should not lose their working years abroad, should not be counted when establishing the Hungarian pension, should not be entitled to benefits only because the years spent in Hungary with work and contributions are not sufficient for the period of service required to establish entitlement. Recognize foreign periods of insurance, do not disadvantage those who apply for a pension in the United States, but the period of service obtained there is not enough to establish a pension. Through the agreement, their situation would be resolved, as it would be possible to offset the Hungarian periods of insurance and the two countries would provide the benefits in a proportionate manner. Direct access to benefits would guarantee access to the pension in the State of residence of the rightholder. The Convention also provides for the possibility for employers to send their workers to another country for work without becoming contributors to another country for that time. According to the Convention, those who do not work for more than five years in the territory of another country must pay contributions only in the country of dispatch. This is also an important rule because it can avoid double contributions. However, important benefits are not covered by the Convention, the scope of the Convention covers only pensions and benefits for disabled persons, health benefits during non-work stays, benefits for work accidents or occupational diseases. The justification refers to the geographical location of the Contracting States. It would be nice if you could shed some light on why geographical distance is an obstacle. The Convention is an important social guarantee in the lives of more than ten thousand Hungarian and American citizens who worked or work in the territory of the other country. At the same time, bilateral economic relations and the movement of labour between the two countries would have justified the conclusion of this Convention earlier. As we know, negotiations on this were started six years ago, while the agreement was signed with Canada in 2002, the US was only started in 2009 and the agreement had to be signed for six years. It's a bit of a long time, and we'd be happy to have an explanation for that. When the Convention was solemnly signed, there was also talk of deepening economic integration between the two countries. We cannot go without saying that, given the current negotiations of the US-EU Free Trade Convention, these are in the interest of closer economic integration. We have already said on the debate day we initiated on TTIP that this convention is suitable for everything but to increase social security to preserve the level of social and labour rights achieved. Social security must be taken into account not only when we conclude such agreements with America, but also when we look at the possible effects of the Free Trade Agreement. It is enough to look at the objectives of the WTO so far, to increase prosperity, to create jobs and to combat poverty. The abolition of customs duties has only increased the gap between poor and rich countries. Why do we expect something else from the Free Trade Agreement? If the interests of workers, the Hungarian working people, are indeed concerned, they cannot support TTIP and make concessions in the area of social rights, labour rights, labour protection rules, in order to remove barriers to trade. This would trigger a downward regulatory spiral, which would also move domestic regulation towards weaker guarantees. The current level of labour law, OSH legislation, would be reduced. Improving competitiveness would be synonymous with devaluing the labour force, reducing wages further. The only way to stay in competition with a much less regulated labour market is to destroy our own defence system. Social security must therefore also mean this, and the standing in the debate on the preparation of TTIP. In Hungary, there is no place to back down in terms of wages, workers' rights and social safety net, it is the government's duty to create conditions under which the knowledge, added value and wages of Hungarian workers can increase. We need social justice in the distribution of incomes, which raises the people living in the lower parts of society, which gives more income to Hungarian society. I thought it was important to say all this so that the social security agreement we are discussing can be seen in these contexts. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-17-99	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We're at the end of the lead speaker's round. It is now possible to speak to its representatives. Would anyone like to take advantage of that opportunity? [[No one's reporting.]] No. In this case, as no further speeches have been made, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[Dr. Gábor Zombor: In one sentence!]] Here. [[13.20]]
u2015-03-17-100	Thank you very much for the comments on the content of the agenda, as this is a bilateral agreement on social security, in which we have heard a lot. I believe that the four new conventions on social security, which Hungary has negotiated with various countries, Albania, Macedonia, the United States and then the following, are strengthening not only our main relations, but also our role in these areas. If possible, I would ask that geopolitics and various trade issues should not be confused with social security, as this is about people being able to receive adequate care if they are living in another country, and these are very important, positive developments in relations between countries. If the comments were considered as support, thank you very much for them.
u2015-03-17-101	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. There will be a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the draft law on the publication of the Convention on Social Security until its closure. The submission was made in T/3789. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I give the floor once again to Secretary of State Gábor Zombor, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here.
u2015-03-17-102	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to speak to you about a similar treaty. Hungary has recently achieved significant success in building bilateral social security relations. As I said, between November 2014 and February this year, four social security conventions were possible. I believe that in the case of a bill relating to the last Turkish Convention, it is appropriate to briefly review the results of the negotiation processes concerned. The Conventions open the way for the development of modern-looking bilateral social security relations for four states. Thanks to the international treaties, the Hungarian party has successfully built bilateral relations with countries of different historical backgrounds, diverse cultures and socio-economics. It is clear that Hungary sees the southern, northern, eastern and western countries as a good partner, so it will be possible to increase its international weight as an open country throughout the world with these conventions. The agreement concluded with the Republic of Turkey is of crucial importance in the process of further effective development of bilateral relations. The contract provides for the possibility to enable citizens as insured persons and economic operators to find their calculations of work mobility and economic activity in the territory of the other State by means of increased entitlements, predictable regulation. Similarly to the Hungarian-American Convention, taking into account that the Republic of Turkey is not a close state in a geographical sense, the Contracting Parties agreed that the Convention should primarily ensure the coordination of the benefits provided under compulsory pension insurance. In addition, the Convention extends the modern regulatory principles to the partial harmonisation of health insurance benefits, including, for example, the arrangements for providing healthcare during work in another State and the coordination of the care of persons with disabilities. By summing up periods of insurance completed under the law of the two countries, the staff concerned may obtain rights which would not be available to them in the absence of the Convention. Since the legislation also lays down the law applicable to economic activities carried out in another State, its impact on bilateral economic relations is also expected. Dear House, The Convention is an international treaty and therefore the Parliament's consent is necessary to recognise its binding scope. In the case of the Convention on the Republic of Turkey, it is also particularly true that the international instrument implementing modern legislation does not primarily benefit the Contracting Party states, but their citizens and economic actors. As the treaty increases the aforementioned staff in new rights and opportunities, and bilateral relations can be further strengthened, the Government of Hungary has declared its commitment to the development of bilateral social security relations by signing the Convention. In view of this, I propose and ask this House to support the bill for the approval of the Convention by Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-103	Thank you very much. I welcome the students from Eger and the teachers in the gallery. I'm so glad you're here. Now, Honourable Parliament, we now have speeches to make. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I will ask if anyone from the Fidesz Group wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see that. I will ask if anyone from the MSZP Group wishes to speak. [[Yes, it's a signal.]] Congressman Bertalan Tóth, please.
u2015-03-17-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The scope of the Convention covers the legislation governing old-age and survivors' pensions, compulsory health insurance benefits and the benefits of persons with disabilities under the social security relationship. It also covers the coordination of the rules on benefits and entitlements in relation to accidents at work and occupational diseases. With regard to work in the territory of another country, the present Convention states that the insurance obligation of an employed self-employed person is subject to the legislation of the Contracting State in the territory of which the person is employed. An exception to the general rule shall be, inter alia, those posted to the territory of the other Contracting Party by public and public service workers and employers posted for work in the territory of the other country, self-employed persons, persons employed in international transport and transport. The special provisions coordinate national regulatory systems and procedures in four chapters. This includes health benefits in kind, sickness and maternity benefits, benefits in the event of accidents at work and occupational diseases, pensions, retirement and death benefits, invalidity benefits and benefits for persons with disabilities and disabilities. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-105	Thank you very much. Does anyone from KDNP wish to speak? [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to, because there's no one here. Then I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Solve your technical problem, Congressman. [[Cutter on the mark of Sebestyén:]] You don't have to solve it, you say it by heart.
u2015-03-17-106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's been a little trouble, but we're gonna figure it out, and I don't need the plane right now. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Contrary to the agreement with the United States of America, this can only affect the vast majority of Hungarian citizens if they serve in Turkey on a mission or as an employee of a company established in Hungary, and this period of service extends beyond the time limits laid down by the law, and they are subject to the laws declared in this regard within the time limits. [[13.30]] In view of the fact that all Hungarian citizens, wherever they serve, whether they represent a diplomatic company or a Hungarian company, their legal certainty in relation to health care and social care, or pension benefits, is important to us, and we will therefore support the adoption of this convention and vote in favour of voting. Here, I would say so much more - if I could come to my own area of expertise - we have read in this, too, that in certain benefits Turkey seems to be in a better position, or that people living in Turkey are in a better position than Hungarian citizens living in Hungary, because the Turkish State did not consider it important to eliminate the disability benefit, there is disability benefit, and the disability pension remains in the same form. This could also be seen as a goal to be pursued at some level, and we would draw the government's attention to how this works in other countries, how it could possibly fit into international legislation, pension systems and retirement benefits, and try to adapt Hungarian legislation to this, even in respect of these international examples, if it has already taken a wrong decision irresponsiblely with the entry into force of 2012. Here it is, again, an international example to correct these flawed decisions. However, in the interests of the above-mentioned Hungarian citizens, we will also accept the agreement and vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-107	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone from the LMP Group wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] He won't say anything. Dear Parliament, I will ask the honourable Members and Members if they wish to speak. [[No signal.]] No. As no one has applied for a speech, the general debate is closed. Secretary of State, would you like to speak? [[For signal:]] Here.
u2015-03-17-108	Thank you very much for the support of the bill to the speakers.
u2015-03-17-109	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, This means that amendments can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the management of state land assets will follow until closure. The submission was made in T/3788. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. As rapporteur, I give the floor to State Secretary István Nagy, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Dr. István Nagy: Mr President, I would like a five-minute recess.]] Five minutes of technical break. [[Pause: 13.33 13.42President: Dr. István HillerNotes: Lorántné Hegedűs and Dr. István Tiba]]
u2015-03-17-110	[[Dr. Márton Bitay Örs enters the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Welcome to the Secretary of State. It's been a long time since they've been waiting for Secretary of State like we've been waiting for you. Please validate your card. We were about to begin a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the management of state land assets. I give the floor to Mr Bitay Márton Örs, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. But before I give it to him, he'll breathe, and I'll thank the students of Pécs and Hajdúböszörmény in the gallery. I'm glad you're here to watch our work. Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-17-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I would like to apologize for slipping a bit, but this debate of the parliamentary genre, the evolution of the previous laws, influenced the arrival, and they spoke a little bit late, but as I understand it, I ran right over. I, too, welcome the students to the gallery of Parliament. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, T/3788 on the amendment of laws before you relating to the management of state land assets. The bill contains amendments to eight laws in order to implement state land management in accordance with uniform principles. The amendments under the bill aim to ensure that all land owned and transferred by the State is subject to the ownership rights of the National Land Fund Management Organisation through uniform ownership rights and uniform exploitation principles, for which more detailed rules have been included in the bill. The basic objective is to broaden the national land base's assets so that all public land used for agricultural and forestry purposes is uniformly transferred to the National Land Fund; therefore, not only according to its cultivation arm, but also land used for agricultural and forestry purposes according to its use. However, this should not be an insult to specific conditions of use, such as areas used for defence purposes. These use of land will obviously require precise clauses for each contract later. It is also important to adapt certain specific rules for the use of public land to the new land regulations in force since May 2014. In this context, the draft makes clear, in relation to the land-use ceiling under the Land Traffic Act, that the land used under the Trust Law of the State bodies is not included in the property ceiling. In Hungarian, we are talking about the maximum use of land of 1200 hectares or, where applicable, the maximum use of property of 1800 hectares from the point of view of public land users, from the point of view of 100% state-owned land users. This will ensure, for example, the proper management of about one million hectares of state-owned forest assets. It also requires certain special land users or ownership declarations to be made during the exploitation of state land in connection with the property maximum. The proposal also regulates, within a new, clear structure, the forms of exploitation of land covered by the National Earth Fund, without changing them, but creating special exploitation opportunities. For example, as a new option, it ensures that social cooperatives can benefit from state-owned land free of charge without public tendering for public employment purposes. In addition to social cooperatives, the draft also provides local authorities with the possibility of using public land for public employment and social land. It also declares the possibility of free and open-ended asset management for asset management contracts concluded for the purpose of basic education and scientific public tasks. In order to eliminate the abuse and overestimation of certain land auctions, the draft allows the land subject to the unsuccessful auction to be owned by the State only at the purchase price established by the NFA or judicial expert. The draft significantly simplifies the exploitation of the undivided joint-owned forest areas affected by the minority ownership share of the State. Indeed, it creates the possibility that lease contracts for forest owners for such State-owned shares should be concluded without tender, in line with the possibilities provided for in the forest law. In addition, the priority objective of the proposal is to facilitate the closure of the restoration of the conservation level of protected natural areas as defined in 1995, i.e. the early take-up of all protected natural areas concerned by public ownership. This requires financial compensation for thousands of persons entitled to compensation, which, unfortunately, has been interrupted between 2004 and 2010 due to a lack of resources. In the future, the National Land Fund, the body entitled to purchase land on behalf of the State, will carry out the purchase of the land required by law. This proposal significantly reduces the administrative and financial burden on national park directorates, while maintaining the obligation to place protected natural areas on board property management. In addition, in the future, the draft will require the granting of national park management property management to protected natural areas owned by the State under the state pre-emptive right provided for in the Nature Protection Act, which will significantly extend the scope of national park property management. In addition, the bill contains a number of minor technical amendments to the National Earth Fund Act in order to make the law applicable in practice and to facilitate it. T/3788. Legislative proposal No.3 therefore allows the use of state-owned land on a uniform professional basis, thereby strengthening legal certainty, contributing to the practical implementation of the idea of a good state. I could also say, in a simpler way, with regard to the bill, that we can talk about a reorganization within a state. It is about who, how many, and how - typically both state bodies - exploit public lands. The whole point of the single State land-use concept is that state land on one side of the road and state land on the other side of the road can be leased under the same conditions, with the same logical thinking, or, where appropriate, used by the public body. [[13.50]] With regard to the bill, I could say that all the coherence problems that have been encountered so far in the adopted Land Traffic Act, the National Earth Fund Act and the impact of the two have been resolved and transferred to a new unified concept of land management. I would also like to mention in particular the sentence that these areas should be used in accordance with specific specialities, and here I mentioned the areas used for defence purposes. What we're saying now is that everything that's in the Ministry of Defense's asset management, not used directly for defence purposes, is transferred to the National Land Fund's asset management. The first is a very important claim that there is no change in property ownership, neither for defence purposes, nor for national park purposes, nor for educational purposes, nor for any other purpose, since ownership rights have been exercised on behalf of the Hungarian State by the National Land Fund and will continue to be exercised by the National Land Fund on behalf of the Hungarian State. We are all talking about trust contracts. With regard to these areas of use for defence, we claim that it is clearly necessary to take into account later in the exploitation process that, say, agricultural recovery areas around the camp village shooting range can only be leased, depending on the use of the shooting range, or that rental contracts should take into account the speciality of shooting with sharp firearms where appropriate. But I could say the same for national parks. In areas that have not been used by national parks themselves, but have been leased to farmers, there will be a change in trust rights. In these areas, the lease will now be carried out by the National Earth Fund, or I could say - back to the original terminology - that trust rights will be used by the National Earth Fund. In areas that have been used by national parks for various purposes, projects, LIFE projects, for any other nature conservation purposes, they will continue to use it. In fact, the areas that the State acquires through expropriation are XCV. As stated in the Act, in the case of nature conservation areas, in the same way as in the use of national parks, for example in the expansion of a national park project or in order to carry out a special nature conservation task, the National Land Fund has an obligation to return this area to the national park for asset management. I don't want to go into long anecdotes with regard to public land assets in connection with property records and asset management. I could say that in 2010, when the government began, the State Land Savatter was a paper-based non-digitalist, and we formally took stock of the property on a sheeted pallet in a yard. There are a lot of tasks in this stock register that still need to be done, and we could even look at it and say that it has not been completed in four years, even though it could have been done. However, it is certain that in order to have a healthy, good stock register, it is very important that we know the principles on which we want to make use of this wealth. We claim that the most important principle is to use these areas in a uniform way, along uniform principles, along with uniform principles of ownership policy. When I had the pleasure of starting my work as Secretary of State, I noticed this interesting phenomenon - I brought an analogy of land on one side and on the other side of the road - that the same agricultural plougher, about the same golden crown, was on one side of the road in the management of assets of State Budget Body X, which was given for five years for rent at various bids, while on the other side of the road - I say once again, we are talking about the same type of land with the same utilisation - and it was given for 15 years at a completely different price. In general, it is very difficult to explain to people what the logic is in not dealing with this in a uniform way. And there is another very important aspect of single state land management: the state must also appear as a buyer on the Hungarian agricultural land market. We have a job to do. The Land Traffic Act gives us the opportunity - or the government, because the government gives us money - to buy suspect areas of pocket contracts. In terms of wealth management as a whole, it obviously doesn't matter that I, as a National Fund of Earth, have to ask an X.Y. body as a government background institution to try to buy the area because of various neighbouring and other rights, or, where appropriate, to intervene in the non-purchase or purchase of the area, while I, as a state, have a few days to decide whether or not to intervene in the given pocket contract area. So there are a number of elements that have led us to the conclusion that it is very important to have a unified government management of land. In particular, certain aspects should be prioritised - and I mentioned them in the expoze - whether social, public employment, or local government. For example, at the moment, we cannot provide public land to municipalities for public employment. This situation is resolved by this bill, which makes it clear that the state will have the opportunity to do so. The same can be said for social cooperatives. I would like to ask this House: there can and should be a wide variety of debates on land matters. In particular, it is worth carrying out when we are talking about the land law on land, or the land with a certain agricultural grade of 5 million 400 thousand hectares, which is private property. This could be a very interesting, important decision or debate, which is also of constitutional significance. Here, too, in the state's land fortune, very serious debates can and should be held. I would just like to point out to all of you that we are talking about intra-state settlement, not in terms of ownership, but only how we use this land, how we utilize the state land, based on a single idea, on a uniform basis, with a unified management of assets or fragmented. We don't have to decide today, that's what we're going to discuss today. When the Parliament's agenda is reached, we will eventually have to press a button to make use of the state's land on a uniform basis, or to continue to support the fragmented use of it without principles. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by its representatives, the first round of which will be the speech by the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here. [[Adam Mirkóczki takes over his notary seat.]]
u2015-03-17-113	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/3788. The majority of the legislative proposals for amending certain laws relating to the management of public land assets are of technical nature, but also contain several important and long-awaited amendments. Under the Act on Partial Compensation for Damages Unfairly Caused by Citizens by the State, protected and protected natural areas cannot be assigned to the land funds set up by the cooperative are transferred to the National Land Fund. The amendment that has now been tabled in this respect is actually only for clarification. These areas were already part of the National Fund of Earth, but were not provided for in the legislation. The point of the change is that the area is not automatically transferred to the management of the assets of the National Park Board, but you need to ask the NFA to do so. It should be pointed out that this process has already been completed by about 99 percent in the country, and these lands have gone to national parks. In fact, there are only a few such cases to be dealt with here. [[14.00]] The new rules proposed for the right to pre-empt protected natural areas are a fundamental reason for adapting to the new earth traffic law and for the uniform management of land. In the case of land, the NFA now exercises the right to buy pre-emptions, but in the case of protected land, the directorate of the national park, which is the source of many problems on the enforcement side, and the lack of resources makes it difficult to exercise their pre-emptive rights. The proposal reduces the administrative burden for national park directorates by continuing to deal with the exercise of the right of pre-emption in the case of protected natural areas considered as land, instead of the boards. The provisions broaden the leeway of boards of directors to take public ownership of protected natural areas. According to the draft, if the directors use an indication to MFA in relation to the pre-emptive right in respect of protected natural areas as defined by the Act on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land, they shall create an obligation for NFA to purchase the property. NFA did not have such an obligation in the past, and the national park directorates typically did not have the resources to exercise such a pre-emptive right in relation to the most valuable protected natural areas. According to the proposal, the NFA is obliged to transfer the protected natural area from the NFA source to the management of national park management assets. There was no such obligation and there is no such obligation under the legislation in force. It is also necessary that the value established by the NFA by its own valuer, rather than the auction value, be governed by what the State has to pay. Unfortunately, due to current auction practices, there is mass abuse, and it must now really end. About 85-90 percent of the estimated value of the auctions is excessive, often so much that even 50 percent of the value is higher than the real estate value. It is therefore of particular importance, in order to protect public assets and budgetary resources, that the value established by the NFA should be applied and adopted in all material auctions where excessive estimates are established. One of the key elements of public employment is the agricultural Start Work Programme. In order to continue and expand this, it is necessary for municipalities to have an adequate production area. One of the ways out of public employment is to create social cooperatives for public workers and to have all the means to provide the means to strengthen them. The legislative amendment ensures that municipalities acquire and exploit the use of land for the purposes of public employment and social land programmes. The amendment creates consistency between the Land Traffic Act and the Kft. • • • • • • • • • • [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] Dear fellow Members, Please support T/3788 with your comments and votes. the adoption of bill No 1. Mr President, thank you very much for listening.
u2015-03-17-114	Thank you very much. Here comes the lead speaker of the MSZP, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös. Find your mike.
u2015-03-17-115	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This is indeed a law that covers quite a lot of areas, and we could also say that there are many technical corrections, but there are some things in this which are not technical, as my colleague Balázs Győrffy pointed out before me. I'll start with what we think is okay. This is part of the proposal to sell the public part of the undivided shared forest areas to the company itself. 'Cause that's kind of what this is about. This is also important because we see abuses in this regard, where there is such mixed ownership, where the state has only property, but not very much the profit from it, because it is very difficult to follow management matters, and it is not usually indicated. I can give you a concrete example of this: there are alleged abuses around Zirc, but this will obviously be investigated by the NFA. So that part's okay. It is also positive that social cooperatives can receive public employment land free of charge or even public land for free use. What is problematic for us, however, and several environmental organisations have already signalled to the Minister, even now that we do not see much of a guarantee that if the exploitation or management of nature conservation areas goes to the NFA, the NFA will be able to do so with this apparatus that it currently has. We see that it does not have a great deal of the state's land assets, which is currently in its management, because there is no evidence that the operators who have received land from previous applications are subject to substantive scrutiny of the implementation of the management plans they describe. For in the last two years, new jobs should have appeared in the countryside, not to mention livestock. After all, everyone here took on the livestock in the land contest that was in the regulation. Our experience is that we do not have a fraction of this, or they travel around as traveling ambassadors, and the same livestock can be found at each inspection, precisely because the National Land Fund Manager is not prepared for this. He doesn't have any men or experts who could rule out, say, this type of abuse, animal travel. We also see the applications on Hortobágy, although it was not carried out by the NFA, it was exactly the national park, but its practice was the same. In fact, I could say it's supposed to be even cooler, even though it was a national parker. After all, they won vast land with non-existent animals, and there was also such nonsense that a person with 50 large white Hungarian ducks got 60 hectares of pasture, which is quite amazing. [[To intervene:]] Yeah, the duck is an animal, but we usually have 200 in the yard, not 60 acres. I'm telling you, it's not a pasture-digging animal, like, a big white duck. This is the problem with this, and what the association of conservationists, the WWF and the Avian Association see is that there is no guarantee that it will not be the same as with Kishantos, that it will not matter at all what nature conservation environment they operate in. The only thing that will matter is that these areas may, in a well-managed way, usually, be brought to close Fidesz. The other is that one source of income in national parks - in addition to own-use - is the system of rents, which is the same as that of other European Union subsidies. From this they were able to perform directly guarding, nature conservation and nature-close tasks. Now this income is clearly going to go away, and this is going to cause serious problems. It's tens of thousands of acres, isn't it? I think this loss will be very difficult for you to handle. In addition, I think that the type of expropriation, and we have a problem with that, which has had pre-emptions for national parks, for example, in Borsod and Telkibány, so that it would be okay for nature conservation areas, let's say, to remain in more controlled state hands. Only one big problem is that if there is only such land at the border of the settlement, there is no guarantee that after they have taken it from them, they will get it back for cultivation. Because the problem is that it's just because friends in the region can't satisfy their hunger for land, only in this way, to take over the territories of those who have been using them for decades. So what I see as a problem here is that this is the first step in a very controlled leasing process, and that is the same practice that we have seen at the National Land Fund Manager, which we have seen a lot of problems with so far. In fact, to say more now, and then, of course, Mr Secretary of State will say something about this, because they are now being found out, after they can be consulted, because there is a court decision on it. Because how to interpret that out of eight submitted applications, one player wins two, loses six; the same review team, the same people score the economic plan for the six applications, because it had to fail because it had to be someone else, and the two had to be maximized. Now, if someone can explain to me that in the same business, whether it's private or company, how to score two out of eight business plans and score six, so that it's literally the same proposal, the same business plan; this can only be done in one way: if they've been told exactly what to do in advance. [[14.10]] And that's gonna be the problem, it looks like this practice at NFA goes and works without a problem. It probably worked at Hortobágy in the national park, and there was a national park where the director resigned because he refused to go through with it. So, I'm afraid this concentration will prevent another 50,000 acres of dirt. So it doesn't work for anyone else. By the way, in this state, I don't see any problems. The logic is that, for example, in using the defence area, where it is not the duty of the military to use its out-of-use shooters or the pastures in use, which are not affected, to get into a single management of assets, but in nature conservation areas, I believe that it is the launch of this type of immobilization of national parks, because I cannot say otherwise, because if its revenues are lost, sooner or later it will end that they will not be able to carry out the task they have to do, and I do not think it is right. So the reason that this kind of solution is wrong is when they put a lot of stuff in a law, because I have just talked about two or three cases in connection with a law that is completely logical and sensible, and I think it needs to be done, but there are a number of elements in this proposal that cannot be supported. So, overall, what I can say is that in this form, we can certainly not support it. This proposal should, in any event, be withdrawn, taking into account the position of environmental professional organisations, the part of which concerns the inclusion of national parks should be forgotten and the rest, I think, should be brought before Parliament, because I think it could be supported with a good heart by the whole Parliament or by a vast majority. I suggest, Mr Secretary of State, that you consider consulting professionals on this matter, giving them a clear answer, because these questions about why this is necessary in substance have not been answered. You have tried to tell me why this is because of unification and clarity of vision, but I see that in this form this National Land Fund Manager is doing it correctly, it is not appropriate, there must first be radical changes. As well as the practice that the Prime Minister has repeatedly said in his answers that there was a need to be a review of the steps in this regard, those practices should be removed, and from that point on, it may be possible to discuss this in a meaningful way at some point, but I do not think so until then. And I don't want to bring things up in private lands right now, but I would like to mention one thing, though, that it is very, very disappointing - and here is the chairman of the chamber, at least he hears - the practice that the committees appointed by the Chamber do in this matter, that they look only at the interests of their own people at the sale of the land, that half-and-a-hare areas are regarded as stockpiling purchases. I think that this is outrageous; there was also a case in Veszprém County, and there was a case in Győr County. Not to mention the fact that they say it's expensive at negotiated prices that are customary on the spot, and they simply refuse to sign off on it. It's a mass, I'd just like to say, Mr. Secretary, that's not what the Chamber was after. We should do the municipal land committees very quickly, because this is not going to end well. The whole earth traffic is blocked. And unfortunately, we're experiencing abuses that clearly proves that now it's not enough to abuse public land and to piss off about it, but Fidesz is either trying to get their hands on private land through the chambers it created and elected by a very, very, very small majority. This must be stopped as a matter of urgency, and this will be a serious problem. Not to mention the fact that you can already see how companies - I said a year and a half ago - are going to disappear because of the land law. For the last time, the manager of an island farm indicated that 70 people would be dismissed because public land leases would expire and they would not be able to work. Believe me - I have been saying this for a year and a half - this will be a mass, with a milk price of 80 or a few forints, every cow in Hungary will be shot in the head, where there is no guarantee of land or land use in the long term. Because it will be the logical decision. They can provide any additional support for this, even if this profession can't afford to keep an animal without land. These are worth rethinking, I think, because this is going to be a serious problem, not now, not in two years' time, but in five years' time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-17-116	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik is next. Here you go.
u2015-03-17-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr State Secretary began by saying that one of the main arguments for this amendment is that uniform exploitation principles should also be implemented in these areas. This is exactly our problem, by the way, or our biggest concern about this plan. Of course, if we were living in a normal country, this would be a perfectly good argumentary system, and Jobbik would accept it, just knowing your past year's practice in this area, which means renting state land, this is more of a matter of serious concern to us. And not just for us, but for countless NGOs, he has already presented his comments, and he has foreseen serious problems in the form of letters to us; more than a hundred NGOs have otherwise signed it. The initiators were the Hungarian Society for Biology and Nature Conservation, the Association of Hungarian Nature Conservationists and WWF Hungary, and they also sent their comments to you on several occasions. I have received feedback that, if there were some responses to these letters, these misconceptions were very late, and were free of absolute substantive answers, and that is what we are used to here in Parliament. In general, it is important for these organisations to stress that there is still no reference to the technical arguments that led to the preparation of the proposal in the justification for the nature conservation-related sections of the proposal. What you have said here, Secretary of State, I do not feel at all supported by the fact that the land of national parks should be transferred to the National Land Fund Manager in this way. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As far as we know, there have been no concerns about the activities of the Boards that would justify the planned changes, and even in recent years, more resources have been used to restore the level of protection and to expropriate it. In this way, they do not see any justification for measures which undermine the management of assets. Obviously, I will not read the whole letter, and I trust that Mr Secretary of State has read it, and perhaps because of this, his delay was the same, he tried to find out more about the opinions of the various organisations. Their conviction, as many practical examples have shown, is that the NFA is not as effective as the national park directorates specifically set up for this purpose. This is not in their letter, but perhaps we should mention Kishantos' example here. It is very clear how you can use these measures and these opportunities for political revenge, because the killing and destruction of Kishantos really did not mention anything other than how to carry out a political revenge against the former Secretary of State and his circle of József Ángyán, and how these lands will be able to extort their living buddies many miles away, and how they have been able to destroy this well-functioning bioeconomy, which, by the way, has set an example for many people at European level. Returning to the letter: The National Park Directorates have a uniform system of assessment and mapping of biological values in protected areas, regional planning for nature conservation management, ecological management and social aspects, technical coordination of implementation and even day-to-day territorial control, which means not only a specific number of activities, but also an assessment of the biological impact of interventions. So these are all things that NFA will not be able to account for and implement in this way. I know that you will say, Mr State Secretary, that national parks will still have this opportunity in the future, but we do not know what resources will be available to national parks, because, for example, area aid will be removed from their feet. It would be a long way from the letter, but, as I have said, I do not want to waste any more time, and I would really like to consider these concerns, because then it would be clear to you that this is not just the opposition, not just Jobbik's concern, but also the organisations that have seen what work has been done in the national parks. The problems that you have listed are indeed to be solved in many cases, and I also believe that the anomalies, the parallels that exist in the field of land management in Hungary have to be dealt with, but I do not believe that this was the solution in the first place. And why we're worried about the National Land Fund Manager? The last three years have been loud with dirt dogs, giving us a lot of ammunition, as it has revealed incredible abuses that, I think, really rightly support our fears. A lot of cases have also been mentioned here in Parliament, and I'm sure you remember very well when one of your wives, who is no longer a representative, received 200 hectares, and through a tender that, when I checked, it was quite clear to me that they had touched it, and that subjective elements were pushed away in a way that allowed it to win this land. [[14.20]] To date, the way applications are being applied is an amazing way, I think, in Europe without precedent. I do not know what reason can be in the middle of Europe in 2015 for us not to know who, in what way, taking into account subjective elements, why there is no legal remedy and why this is not public and transparent. If it weren't for everything behind it, Mr. Secretary, you'd be the first to take the initiative to make this a transparent system, especially the abuse they've been before. He won't be able to explain it to me or anyone, explain why the tendering system is good, where the state land of the entire Váli Valley, let's say, is available to a Mészáros Lőrinc, who can develop the agricultural interests of the entire family and the circle of friends by accident from European Union funds. Hortobágy has already been mentioned, I do not repeat. There, their own control system has also shown abuses in several places, and the State Audit Office has also expressed its concerns in this regard. But back to József Ángyán, your former secretary of state, you put a whole study, not one at all, on the table where you go along nicely every county and prove to everyone who those interests, families, close friends or comrades who have benefited most from this state land lease. The Jobbik did not claim, nor did I claim that there were no landlords who rightly deserved the land leased, but at least two thirds of the proportion that should be examined. Don't take this the wrong way, Mr. Secretary, I would like to underline this here, not that Jobbik or I have a problem with the fact that someone with a fidesz attachment has won the state land. The elections were won with more than 50 percent or 50 percent, mathematically [[Zoltán Grimlock: 33!]] suggests that at least one in two people voted for you during the elections among the voting age and the people willing to vote. From this point of view, if we start from this logic, it may be with a calm heart that every second winner has a fidesz attachment, and there is no problem with that, if the winner complies with the land policy guidelines that you have announced, which are so abundantly represented constantly. Then I really wouldn't have a problem with the couple's sympathizers. But there have also been serious abuses, for example, in relation to the fact that a company in Komárom-Esztergom County has been deprived of state land. He had left-wing management, and they didn't create enough jobs on that land, so I completely agree with the story so far, there's no problem with that, but with hundreds of millions of forints of EU money, this company created a serious irrigation system that the new land user would obviously have had to pay as a fixed asset for the old kft. towards it. On the other hand, you replayed this system by withdrawing the land contest for one day, thus making the taxpayers pay for this irrigation system with such a small trick, and your buddy, who later won the land from this company, got access to a land with a fully modern and well-equipped irrigation system, without any extra investment. The land has been rented at the fixed unit price ever since. Asking for livestock numbers is also problematic. We know of a number of cases where these animals are practically rented around. They're not properly checked. We are not informed of how these checks are carried out, how often, and how much information comes to us that, indeed, the control of the interests closely linked to you is not in order. But we are aware of a case where 19 of the 21 applicants were linked to your circle, and we would have a long list of anomalies that we are terrified of, and we are afraid that the same problems will arise when we get into NFA treatment. But if we are talking about where the land management is going and how this system is changing, it would be worth mentioning what has been promised for five years and I have repeatedly asked you in the walls of this House, this is the question of Lake Fertő. It would have been nice to handle this, it would have been absolutely appropriate, and it would have been nice if it had been settled in this law. If anyone hasn't heard from me, we are talking about the world heritage, which in 2006, the complete Hungarian reeds, about a thousand hectares, were made out to an entrepreneur close to SZDSZ. It's not your fault, it wasn't your government. At the same time, I do not really list any existing body to whom I have applied, who lives in Hungary and may be competent, I have been in this matter, he has given me the truth, and he has said that it is not possible to conclude a contract in this way under an ever-free Nadia right, that rebellion is absolutely justified, and that they fully understand the families involved, the indignation of those who have been destroyed. Yet, no progress has been made. Of course, the person is no longer close to SZDSZ, as their former Secretary of State, Mr Elijah, whispered in the walls of the House, he cannot act on this, he said, because he was no longer close and listened to a great deal. I'm sure you understand that he was thinking of himself, of himself, in this silence, and that he was suggesting that he was likely to be protected by political means, and that he was able to destroy it. Infecting lake at this rate, it does not even take the most basic steps to restore the biological condition of the lake. I would add that the European Union has now received money for it. So here, too, the public will be restored to what someone deliberately failed to do and whose activities are being left behind to this day. It was also talkative that legislation was introduced in the previous cycle to expropriate world heritage parts, such anomalies, to solve problems. But this was to solve the problem of the café in Budapest, perhaps on Gellért Hill, or on which mountain, and when I drew attention to the fact that the issue of Lake Fertő could be resolved through this law, it was suddenly rewritten before the final vote, so that this entrepreneur, who is now connected to you, would not be offended and might serve the common good in the future. There was also talk of defence areas. It would have been nice to finally decide who's going to solve the problem of ammo and mine clearance. It is very nice and good that the defence areas that are no longer performing their old task are trying to make meaningful use of it, but these are costs that not many people can take on and are not worth taking on. So, sooner or later, the state should get away with this, I guess. I, too, know a lot of problems in the undivided public forests, and it is possible that this change will bring the matter forward. I am also a little concerned about this, because if we think about the logical changes in Fidesz-KDNP that are constantly taking place around the state's wealth, there may also be abuses. If you think about it, between 1998 and 2002, the logic of Fidesz was to get rid of all the land of the State, the State does not have to use land. If we don't think of anything else, after the election defeat, between the two rounds, the 12 biggest state economies were squandered to their friends. So that was the logic of Fidesz. Then what does God give when they returned two thirds in 2010, and then they began to say in abundance that the state land must be preserved and rented in accordance with the state policy guidelines. If you change your mind and your attitude to the state land so quickly, you're afraid that the forest will let the horse fly away with you. But overall, I understand why they are trying to make this change. I agree with the land to be provided to municipalities and social cooperatives, and we can support that part, but because of the problems and concerns that I have said in interpreting the views of civil society organisations, I do not think that we will be able to support this bill in the end. Of course, we are trying to make it better and useful with amendments. If they're accepted, we can still change our minds. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2015-03-17-118	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP. Here you go. [[14.30]]
u2015-03-17-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There are relatively many things to talk about. For a long time, I listened with interest to the Secretary of State's presentation, and then I listened to Congressman Győrffy on behalf of the governing party, but I calmed down, and then I realized that it was just acting, so you don't have to believe what you're saying, because it's actually something else. I believe in the fact that there's a man in Fidesz who believes that, so I can see in your ranks that there's a lot of well-meaning people who believe these bullshit things, that they're gonna do the bureaucracy and the anti-corruption fight and the reduction of the rent and the starving kids, but that's not what this is about. Forgive me for not starting the professional comment yet, but what I see as a simple Hungarian person. So there was something called a change of regime, and from then on, various governments were concerned with how to put state wealth in their own pockets, how to liquidate factories, how to eliminate a factory manufacturing industry, how to destroy factories that, say, compete on the market, how to privatise all of this, how to put public economies into their own pockets called dirty twelve, and that was done by all kinds of governing parties, regardless of party status, over the last 25 years. It's been going on for the last 25 years, and the state's pockets are slowly empty, and there's less and less to take to the friends. And what else is there? There's a part of the protected areas, which unfortunately these evil national parks want to enforce some kind of conservation criteria, and I don't know for all these little whistling birds what the economy obviously doesn't care about, nor does any of these protected species really contribute to GDP, as we see it, and it's disturbing that there's a little land here. We're not talking about much, because we're talking about a few tens of thousands of acres in total. But there are 300,000 acres in the management of national parks? It's 300,000 acres, which is total. There are 9.3 million hectares in Hungary, of which 5.3 million hectares are agricultural land, of which there are 300 thousand hectares, and a very small part, which the national parks hold in order to primarily apply conservation criteria. And now there are people who just want us to have our own control of it, and somehow we can put our hands on it. And then they come up with this bureaucracy reduction and the starving kids and the rent cuts and what they do, and then a lot of their representatives can be convinced that this is part of the anti-red tape fight. But it's not! Why would it be? If it were, the NFA would have to be eliminated. What the hell for? ! In all protected areas, national park boards must transfer property management rights, which are not protected, to be given to municipalities to cope with social cooperatives and public works and such. What the hell are we doing with NFA? Let's cut red tape. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's not like that... [[Defiance.]]
u2015-03-17-120	I didn't have a problem with time.
u2015-03-17-121	Did I say something wrong? Excuse me, I'm choosing my words.
u2015-03-17-122	Not professionally, because I'm not gonna say anything, but your wording hurt my ears. Yes, please.
u2015-03-17-123	It's okay.
u2015-03-17-124	Oh, yeah.
u2015-03-17-125	Mr. President, I apologize.
u2015-03-17-126	It's okay.
u2015-03-17-127	I respect that you are the President, but I have seen you here in plenary today, that you can use all kinds of words without penalty, the MSZP has made such a presentation. I thought that was general, but I respect the fact that it's not the same president. So I apologize, Mr. President.
u2015-03-17-128	It's okay.
u2015-03-17-129	So, overall, you can see that there is some other resource that you can control, and it would be good if you put your hands on it, and this is an excellent tool for this NFA. This NFA is practically full of corruption cases, it is full of fraud cases, it is opaque, it is not possible to see into the application system, we do not know who, from what aspects and how they make decisions, we have no idea what is going on with the state's wealth, what the Hungarian government considers to be a government asset, even though it is a community property. This land is not only owned by the governing parties, and it is practically about obtaining the right to dispose of it. So all my fellow members of government who, up until now, seemed to sit down on TV and watch the rekami, should see the background that this is not about making bureaucracy cuts, but about how to obtain the provision over natural resources, that damn area aid. Obviously, that's what worries us the most. But in many cases, we can also talk about professional matters, because, frankly, I have always believed that, let's say, the responsible representatives of the government represent a professional wallet at some level, and they represent a professional position. We have had the pleasure of asking Minister Sándor Fazekas that the protected areas will not be in danger; you do not want to take them to the NFA. On 19 January, Minister Sándor Fazekas assured us that: "There is no government intention to transfer some 50 thousand hectares of protected natural land from national park directorates to the NFA. In fact, he may have been telling the truth, because there are not 50,000 hectares, but much more. So he's got his hands on something like this. When he said this, but he could have held Zsolt V. Németh in the same way when I invited him to the Committee on Sustainable Development, and I asked him the same question, and according to the report of the Committee on Sustainable Development, he said that no, there is no government intention. Now it is obvious to me that if you say to the government that there is no government intention, then whose intention is that? Who, if not the government? Then who's behind all this, and who wants it? And obviously I see that a good part of the Fidesz MEPs wanted good for the Hungarian landscape. True, the national rural strategy, in agreement with my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, was submitted one day to come before Parliament and to see the light of day in the form of a parliamentary decision. The Committee on Agriculture has always assured us both to calm down, everything is on the right track, and the Hungarian countryside has its problems sorted out, it is in good hands with the government, everything is in order, and everything is moving towards implementation. However, I am surprised to see that, in the 2012 strategy, the system adopted by the then government states that:. In terms of the effectiveness of protecting protected natural areas and their values, the development of ownership and asset management of their protected area - I have just underlined this, and a small parentheses, exclamation marks - is crucial to the use of their natural protected area. 75 percent of national protected natural areas are state-owned and 28 percent are privately owned. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The proportion of property management of national park land should be increased. So it wasn't said in 2012 that it should be reduced or taken away or removed. This was accepted by the government, and a week or two ago we were reassured by the Fidesz chairman of the Agriculture Committee that everything was going as planned. What do I see in the national rural strategy? Indicators and quantified objectives of the rural strategy? I see that - this was not invented by the evil representatives of the opposition parties, but by the government, what the indicators should be:. The indicator of the preservation of natural values is the size of areas in the management of the assets of national park boards. The government says: from. 288 to 419 hectares, the target is to increase the property management area of the national parks to 430,000 hectares by 2020. He's here in the rural strategy! This is what you are levitating as the constitution of the Hungarian countryside, and you claim that this is on the right track. Basically, they're going to take a counterstep now, and this target - which we knew from Congressman Font Sándor was on the right track - will be cut in the opposite direction from 288 419 hectares to a few thousand hectares that can survive. Obviously, this is what we are concerned about, because we find that this can be risky. But let's assume that we are malicious and disgruntled opposition representatives who see the enemy everywhere. Let's see what Deputy Ombudsman Marcel Szabó says, whom I did not appoint. Marcel Szabó, Deputy Ombudsman, says that national parks are in danger. According to press reports, tens of thousands of hectares of protected land may be excluded from the management of national parks through a government decision, which poses serious natural risks. å This is what the Deputy Ombudsman Marcel Szabó said, explained with material interest the background of nature conservation considerations. But he's a man of ill faith, and he's like an opposition. In presenting the current situation, the green ombudsman said: "The national parks pay some of their land on strict environmental conditions. Environmentally sound exploitation is also taking place in these areas, such as grazing livestock and mowing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So not only do we say that this is a risk, but it is also people who may be expected to be more objective than an opposition. But I'm going to go on, because I was also wondering if the kind of assurance that the Secretary of State had said that it would be necessary to achieve a uniform treatment - I think he used the picture that one side of the road and the other on the same terms - how good it is. We've established that it's nothing. Why? Because we treat protected areas differently than unprotected areas. Csaba Aradi - who was a national park director with an otherwise vomitous fate during the first Orbán government, was removed and reinstated by the Minister of the Independent Little Farmers' Party, Pál Pepó; one thing is certain: as a professional, no one questioned his competence to say that he could do so. The Hortobágy National Park is visible in this game because it is one of the largest trustees of land in national parks, and it is therefore obviously a consideration of what is happening there, because there - I do not know, Commissioner, the Secretary of State is helping out - it is about 60,000 hectares of wealth management. [[14.40]] This ecology expert, as National Park Director, says that the problem is that, among other things, the characteristics of salty soils and Sziki grasslands, which are highly diverse on Hortobágy, and their longing ability is largely dependent on the weather, cannot be treated uniformly - it cannot be treated uniformly! - but the animal unit was prescribed in the same way in many places. On Hortobágy, an acre lasts one year for two numerous animals, in the next year three hectares is barely enough for one. They used to know this, they knew exactly where to drive the sheep, where to drive the cattle, in the 30s 36 thousand cattle grazed here, 16,000 horses, 50 thousand sheep, and yet they did not endanger the natural values. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The problem is what the Secretary of State referred to as the failure to comply with uniform rules, which is not good for that. Technically, we need an adaptive rental system that can be implemented by a national park directorate through the nature conservation guard in the area. But the NFA system is not good for this, and we already have concrete examples of this. NFA doesn't know the area. We can show the Secretary of State in Natura 2000 that, if he has a need for this, where the cultivation branch was a plougher, otherwise it was clearly registered as a pannon-scaling lawn in Natura 2000, the NFA has written down the lease as a plougher, and the tenant has won it with a ploughing-business plan, and he went out and took his plow, he shoved it, and immediately pushed down the Natura 2000 lawn. The whole thing happened in good faith, he practically applied for a arable area, and the NFA had no idea what he was doing, and a Natura 2000 habitat disappeared behind the exercise of the right acquired in good faith. This is because NFA is not suitable for the treatment of protected areas. Obviously, a significant part of these concerns are also raised from a number of political perspectives, because if we say that this is not a threat to the activities of national parks, let us see if there is an example. I am always happy to see Secretary Bitay in the various hunting newspapers, but I have also seen my colleague Balázs Győrffy - and I was happy to see him with his son. [[Balázs Győrffy intervenes.]] And I was glad that he would start this kind of education in time; from a hunting point of view, I think both of you have seen it from under a hunting company, let's say, the landowner community takes the land out. There were more than a few examples like this, because if the hunting company, let's say, worked as an association, the landowner community gave it a lease, let's say, the year wasn't good, they didn't pay the rent for hunting rights, and they pulled the land out, and, say, the landowner community started hunting itself. The hunting company remained formally - there was no hunting ground. Is there such an example in Hungary? There's a lot of them. These hunting grounds are like that. It's the same national park. We've seen this in the dots: the dotes have been transformed into kft., and then they've been taken by the private owners that have been distributed, taken out the land, or they've started, say, buying it up at a golden age, taking the land out from under it. The organization remained, but he couldn't farm. The national park is the same. If we pull the land out from under it, it can't perform nature conservation activities, it's completely analogue to them, and you have to understand that. Practically all Western European trends, which want to achieve conservation aspects, go in the direction of purchasing nature conservation areas and treating them as their own property. And look at the experience of nature conservation law in the last 10 to 15 years. In 95 we created a perfectly good nature conservation law, which said that the protected species was protected everywhere in its own habitat. Nevertheless, we have no legal precedent, no normal administrative procedure where such communities could have been protected outside protected areas. The protected areas are the last resorts, where there must have been an opportunity to do so, and it was the pledge of that which, in the case of state land, constituted the right to manage assets for national parks. Obviously, my problem with this, at the beginning of my speech, was that the family silver can now be played quickly, that if we see the process of this happening, then these protected areas can be avoided now, and this is a very serious threat, not only to the survival of these larks, busters, storks and all sorts of things, but also to the vision of the national park directories that maintain jobs in the countryside and maintain natural values. Because I have heard many things, and I will hear many things in this debate, but what is the government's vision of national parks, how they will work in the next few years, I have heard nothing about it. But after my time is up and I will ask for a word, so I will continue there, but before I do, I would ask the Secretary of State with great respect - free after the Prime Minister - to take part in the debate, not at the end, in the closing word, when we no longer have anything to say. Here, feel free to respond, we will have more time, and we will be able to engage in dialogue on the ground of constructivity. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-17-130	Thank you very much. Before I pass on the floor, I welcome the students and educators of Árpád High School in Óbuda, located in the gallery. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Well, let's keep going. The fact is that we have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and there is no independent Member, so we will have two-minute speeches. Mr Balázs Győrffy, Congressman Fidesz, submitted a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2015-03-17-131	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm calm. I think the amendment is good. You know what they say when you have a hammer in your hand, you see everything as nails. We went back to the NFA land lease application, which is not a related topic, but let's take a look at it. Congressman Haughty says that Fidesz's number of nearby farmers wins. Well, Congressman, you can't find too many farmers with socialist ties, because what you've done to farmers in the country, and then it would be a wonder to vote for you in a crowd. But let's see what happened before 2010. You've divided the land into a thousand acres. I'd like to ask you for a little more restraint, because I'm rather concerned to hear this from you. And one more thing. In the tender system, who has not kept what he has promised, it must be sanctioned, and it must be taken out! To the chamber's rules of procedure, there are less than 3 percent of the number of land traffic cases we do not support. Congressman Zoltán Magyar: 50 percent fideszes, right? How many percent of you have a problem with land traffic, with regard to NFA land traffic? Five percent. What's the problem? Five grand. I think any government would be happy to sign such a performance for any program, so I think, apart from the small number of exceptions, this is nothing more than a morale. Congratulations to our fellow Member Sallai R. Benedek, he was very theatrical; he could have jumped through a ring of fire, which would have explicitly increased the level of entertainment. [[Defiance.]] I think what we have to say is that the professional scope of national parks is not reduced, and the issue of asset management is simply changing. And let me respond to one more thing. Congressman has suggested that the LMP take care of the Fides, because there are a lot of Handicap people sitting here, in your opinion. Congressman, you're insulting not only us, but most of the voters, so you should be ashamed of that. Thank you very much. [[Defiance in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-132	Let's get back to work - love each other a little more. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] In any case, they will not be able to guess which three Members came forward: the three who were addressed by the Member who had just spoken (Development). - so it's going well - in that order. Congressman Zoltán Magyar asked for two minutes. Here you go.
u2015-03-17-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, I should respond to Balázs Győrffy. It's not an argument for me that the socialists used to squash the land to their own buddies. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's not true! Dr. Bitay Márton Örs intervenes.]] And now you're doing this. I can only say that both of you are absolutely right, that Jobbik is here to draw attention to this, and that from 2018, if we govern, we will restore these problems and put both sides in place. And we don't have a five percent problem at all. The fact that very few, relatively few cases have come to light, and relatively few cases have become public relations, and few cases have been made here in Parliament is not because everything else is fine, but because it is very, very difficult to access this information. If you recall, Mr President, you will remember that when the NFA applications started, there were a lot more scandals at the beginning, not because there was more abuse, but because we were able to go into the NFA as a representative then and compare the proposals with each other, the winner with the losers, and in this way the abuses were revealed much sooner. But after you've got tired of the opposition doing its job and trying to uncover the cases of reversion, you've modified this system and the losing proposals will be returned at the moment of your decision - right, Mr President? That's how it works. I'm going in, I'm going to see the winner's proposal, and it doesn't really tell me anything, and I'm going to have to hunt down the losers so I can compare them and see the cases that should be discussed in connection with this law. When I go to the NFA, and the loser and the winner agree word for word, only one of the subjective points received twice or three times as much as the loser bid, and in many cases the winners close to you have been lazy to write a tender from their own head of the well that the committee can then say yes to, and they have not been able to do so in many cases, and these are the real problems. The 5 percent you're talking about is the lucky 5 percent we can talk about here, because we had a chance to catch you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-03-17-134	Congressman Zoltán Haughty, MSZP, in two minutes.
u2015-03-17-135	Thank you very much. My colleague Balázs Győrffy said interesting things. Balázs, if I made as much money as you made from these two good state jobs, I might lie like that. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: Zoli! Zoli!]] So that's all I'd like to say. Because you obviously have the money to have dandruff. But what I'd like to say is that Fidesz was the only one who had a 50-year lease without a tender. We have never given anyone land without a tender, and I would like to strongly reject that. The average gold crown after your bids was 1400 forints, and you took it down to 1200 for a sign, and you had to pay at least 10 percent of the land value for land leases. [[14.50]] With that calculation, Lőrinc Mészáros should have paid about 150 million for the lease, I'm just saying. From now on, I think it's better to get past this, because it's an absolute net lie that anyone would have gotten land from us without a tender - they didn't get it. The current practice is to extend the land for years without the NFA application. It wasn't like that. By the way, the lease contracts didn't even expire, because it's important to know that the first leases were during the Antall government in 94 and 20 years. They expired in 2014, so from then on, mass leasing could only be carried out under the Fidesz government, so this part is not true either. However, we may not have an argument that about 30,000 sheep and about 6,000 cows on Hortobágy do not have pasture at present, because they have taken the pasture, who do not have one animal, but each one has a very good connection system. This has been completely revealed, completely revealed by the Kehi, which is still not closed. We have now reached the point where 14 applications have been withdrawn, but there are no 14 applications, there are 32 companies formed a month after the tender was launched, all close to Fidesz to win the pastures that will receive millions of forints of EU funding. These need to be fixed because small families have remained without a living, and I would like to stress this in particular. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-17-136	[[For signal:]] Next time, Congressman Győrffy, we made a round. This is a speech requesting a normal word, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP. Here.
u2015-03-17-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very careful to be polite and try to talk slower. With all due respect, Mr Secretary of State, I would ask you to take part in the debate. I don't know, maybe I didn't say that before, I just wanted to, but it would be nice if we could have a conversation, and it wouldn't end with things that we couldn't react to. I apologise to Congressman Balázs Győrffy with respect. I didn't mean to hurt the Fidest, I didn't say that, and I didn't think that. I thought that you were led by certain interest groups because of their good faith, just as you led the Hungarian electorate. [[Defiance.]] And I'm just saying that because people are good faith and think well, that's why I'm not sure they're right. That's what I'm talking about, and that's all I'm saying. So I didn't mean the wrong thing, I didn't mean the right thing. I'm sorry if I misunderstood. We would like to ask Mr Bitay, Secretary of State, to participate in the debate in part, to say, in part, how the national park directorates or nature conservation experts have been consulted during the drafting of this legislation. I would be interested to know that the sites for the preservation of Hungary's natural value economy, let's say, national park directorates or, say, the nature conservation departments belong to the ministries, so tell me one or two experts who said that, wow, this is actually gonna be great, we really do this. Give us some names - who, let's say, is known in Hungarian nature conservation, if you have a degree in science, it really helps us to accept your opinion - but who invented it. So please tell me that it wasn't a Pest lawyer who came up with the idea that it would actually be better this way, without knowing how they work on Hortobágy or Kiskunság or the Watch. It would really reassure us if we could see that we might see it differently professionally, but they have some kind of professional argument as to why it is good. It's in the law, and now I can't tell you exactly where, I just remember you giving me an opportunity to terminate the previous lease when the property rights change. I've been thinking about this, because a good part of the property management areas in the national parks have been chartered by national park directorates under your authority, and they're now creating the right for the new trustee to resign. I wonder why this is necessary or whether it is of concern. In the course of other regulations of this nature, if there is a land owner and owner, the land lease right remains continuous. This is practically different from this civil law practice. So I'm interested to know why you're here. It's also very interesting to me - even to mention you - that the property doesn't count as a maximum. It's just that I felt a little bit of a slip here in your drive-in, because you said that with state land only, in the case of farmers. In the meantime, I watched the 2nd. § (a) on how the whole sounds codified. For the purposes of the exploitation of the land parcel belonging to the National Land Fund, the maximum amount of property laid down in the Act on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land in respect of the holder of the trust right shall not be included in the area size of state-owned continents owned by the holder of the trust right as a trustee. In this regard, it is not that those who are exclusively state land, which means that without further ado - I don't know now what they will call Simicska the new large owner of their interest, be it Sándor Csányi - this means that they can give 10,000 hectares without even counting on the property maximum. Am I reading this right? Or I don't know if there's a word missing here that you see in the codified text, and I don't. Because this, what you were able to say, is literally not the case in the draft legislation, and this is a bit of a concern, because it is an important difference that municipalities can have access to this or, let's say, national parks, while they may also be given to individuals. I also listened with interest to Mr Győrffy's speech. It began with long-awaited regulation in a number of respects. I would also like to ask Mr Balázs Győrffy, in two minutes' time, to give me a list of who had been waiting for this; one who had nothing to do with, say, Magos and the National Chamber of Agriculture. From the other parts, who are such Fidesz satellite things, you should also say an organization that was waiting for this. Because here, my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, listed a hundred organisations protesting this. We know they collect stuff on Facebook. So we see a lot of people who are against it, but this long-awaited one who's been waiting for it for a long time, I don't know. I'll take it, just tell me who they are, who they've been waiting for. At the same time, I listened to his speech with strange feelings. On several occasions in the Committee on Agriculture, I have heard the Member talk with enthusiasm about this law, which nationalizes and wants to make cooperatives; there has been such a party or politics before, when they wanted to do this, to nationalise the land, to make cooperatives, that is what we will support. In practice, such systems exist in the codified text of this legislation, how to create conditions for nationalisation, how to help cooperatives. At the same time, it is a real concern, and I have no problem with having this goal, only then tell me why the cooperative law is not in front of us before it is brought here. If you want to help with the state lands, then why hasn't the cooperative law been introduced before it to create the legal background of the one to whom you're going to give this land. 'Cause we haven't heard from him since I didn't know anything. A few years ago, I heard that there was an agreed text, and there's no background on it. I would like to say for my part - I do represent the LMP here in the debate - that I have no problem winning a fidesz. In fact, if the electoral background of Hungarian society, or even more, is made up of Fidesz farmers, I have no problem winning more Fidesz than is not Fidesz. I don't have a problem with that. My problem is that if the conditions are not equal, if they are not obtained in the same application system, they are not based on the same information; if the application system is not correct; if someone can apply to legal persons that are not yet registered, while others are thrown out because of formal errors. I've had it! I have had the opportunity, thanks to Minister Lazarus, to take a look at this Kehi report, and we see concrete examples. Not only did the ducky example poke my eye, but these 31 legal entities who acquired land without being a registered legal entity. We can see that they simply say that they have a higher education degree in agriculture for extra points, while they have no agricultural qualifications. We see animals appearing in the applications in the calculation of points that are not there. So it's okay to win fidesz people, we just want the application system not only to be transparent, but also to be fair. and fair, and then win by all those who apply, who do the most for the public, who employs the most; that would be the important aspect to strengthen rural employment in order to strengthen the value-building work. The reason I don't like this Kehi report is that it has been mentioned several times in the application systems, because the most amazing thing that I saw in the Kehi report was that those who we knew most were dirty in the system, certain farmers in Tiszacsege or, say, farmers in Tiszafüred feeding children with dog meat, were not included in the reference part of the Kehi report. So if I pick 400 out of 1600, I can pick out people who aren't close to me, and then I'll try to check if they made a mistake or didn't make a mistake, and then there'll be some kind of mistake. But if I rule out where we know something happened that shouldn't have happened, then it can't be considered representative. There is a need to standardise the management of state land in state land ownership. What I'm wondering is why we're starting with the national parks. Mr. State Secretary, if you'll do me the honor of giving me answers, I'd also like to know why you don't want to nationalise them, why you don't want to merge them. [[15.00]] Here we have Slovakia a little further north, in forest management they have some experience, Slovenia has a public forest, and this is how they operate the state forestry assets. Why do we have 22 state forests? So why should the land of the national parks be the first to touch? And obviously these raise the questions when we see as if there is a concept constantly in these pursuits, that for some reason the little one always walks badly, always Balázs Sün goes out of the house, so always nature protection and the environmental institutional system, always in the background, and always the one that comes first into the crossfire of such problems. Obviously, this is the answer to the concerns, because I am here with a really one-year experience, as a completely bald representative, I can see that it is practically impossible to ignore that here about since St. Stephen, who is close to the king, is well off, and then it doesn't matter who the king is, it's always his own circle of acquaintances. So this is clearly part of Hungarian culture, and apparently this does not change, but it can only be covered and hidden, but it is obvious that there is something that shows thinking in the nation, when the common language, the love of the Carpathian Basin, and within it the preservation of our natural values are considerations or not. To tell you the truth, the Prime Minister can speak very convincingly, I almost always believe what he says, and he always says that these things are important. For the nation, the natural wealth we have introduced into the European Union, this barely 10 percent protected area, this barely 20 percent Natura 2000 area, would in effect encourage people to implement sustainable rural development models that do not endanger natural values. Where there is a system of institutions through national parks to provide jobs for local people, where these works may be accompanied by ecotourism, perhaps accompanied by rural tourism, where there are built-up systems, and trying to maintain this by extensive grazing methods and traditional means of living, why do you have to beat this up? Now, most of all, as a closing word, or we will see, I would like the Secretary of State to give us the opportunity to get answers in the debate, because we do not see what the specific reason for this is, because, as I said, the elimination of the NFA would be a much more practical, efficient, resource-efficient solution for the government, and I think that would be reassuring for many of us. I would very much like to support a Fidesz government proposal with all my heart for once. Such small amendments as the abolition and transformation of the NFA, I may be able to make some amendments to the legislation. I ask with great respect that you support this at government level, and then I can support your legislation. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-138	Thank you very much. Thus, all the wishes of the congressman, as they are now, shall be fulfilled, because the Secretary of State has applied to speak on behalf of the Government. Before I give you the floor, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and give the chairmanship to Vice President Sneider. Goodbye. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2015-03-17-139	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, How can I put it? There are certain stages of life that are worth going through sooner. I went to Ferences High School at Esztergom, and when I absolutely didn't know anything about compliance, I tried with the very, very little momentum that I had learned about the material, to push it over, and then Brother William once said that I couldn't forget my lack of knowledge with the momentum - one, sit down! Now I have thought of two things about your speech: one is this and the other is stand-up comedy, but I will not shoot that joke because President Balázs Győrffy has already said it. Which is why I decided to go a little further, because I wanted to participate in the debate - as incredible as it is, but I came in to participate - I just thought I'd let you guys know what the problem is. For what I have decided, however, to gather a little bit of my thoughts that I would like to share with you, the fact that, in relation to the trust entitlement, the Member has stated that it is not in this, it can be given to anyone. You have to read the National Earth Fund Act, because state land can only be given to a public body in asset management, but it is another passage, not part of the current daily political communication, but part of it when we go deeper into a material and try to interpret and generate insight into the subject. If you had done this, you would know precisely that state assets, state assets, can only be transferred to 100 percent of state property. That is why I took the liberty of drawing the House's attention at the beginning to how we are discussing how we will organise state in-house. This could generate a good political debate, and then, sticking to the political debate, why we start with nature conservation areas, says you. That's not what we're gonna start with. We are also talking about defence areas, but there is no political ammunition in it, so you do not mention it; nature conservation can be set as if it were something very nasty, as you mentioned a few times that the opposition, the evil opposition... I could now say that, of course, with Minister Fazekas, what we are doing is thinking about how to steal the state's land and then how else, I don't know what kind of friends to give it to, and we never think about doing something good, something that might be appreciated later, but we just want to get the bad out of this system. Dear Congressman, There's been a lot of talk. With regard to nature conservation areas, you are also gallantly superior to the fact that if you have to proportion the areas, how many protected natural areas are used, how much the National Land Fund uses, and how much the National Park is, I could say about two thirds of the ratio. So two thirds per minute are being used by the National Earth Fund, protected natural areas, and you dare to say - sorry for the expression - that it is an act? You should be aware that the exploitation of protected natural areas has been, and will continue to be, defined by the national park, in accordance with the principles of professional exploitation of protected natural areas. There's no difference in that, but it sounds great, you can say that nature conservation is over, national parks are over, and NFA should be eliminated instead. Dear Congressman, the President has helped me out, the words he has used, I no longer need to correct that they may not belong in this House, but do you claim that the NFA is full of corruption cases? Be nice, give me one or one that's in some kind of process course, because I oversee the NFA, but in court, there's no such thing as corruption. You were enthusiastic about the example of Kishantos, as an example closely linked to the law, closed by parentheses. I would like to remind you that there is virtually no court judgment there that has not been favourable to the state. So it's very difficult to adjust by pushing something with two legs, and we want to go up against something. It's not that! We are slowly proving that there are laws, there are laws that must be observed by everyone, and the court rulings also bring this result to order in relation to these issues. There's only one more thing I'd like to respond to that you've told me is that you have 300,000 hectares of land. We could argue that all the millions of acres he said weren't entirely so, but it doesn't matter. The national parks have received this 300 thousand hectares of wealth to perform conservation tasks there, and they have tried to present this to us through a pair of glasses, as if they were doing this task on a daily basis. Dear Member, the truth is that what you say does not fully stand up, because about 150,000 hectares of it are still being leased to others, not used by them, and are being paid to farmers. Here you are arguing with yourself again, but the farmer must use it from a nature conservation point of view, which is otherwise required by the national park, and we are not changing that now, but the question is where the trust law should be. You tried to show on one side of the road and on the other side that you had to perform conservation tasks on both sides. That's right, on both sides, and that's how it's gonna be in the future, there's gonna be no difference, but we're gonna eliminate the fact that one will be rented for five years, the other for 20 years. I was trying to point out in the expo that we're trying to eliminate these anomalies from the system. [[15.10]] You have made quite a lot of statements about Mr Zoltán Magyar. Every second farmer is fidesz - he came to this conclusion from the voting rates. It's a good logic, it's going to take me very far to try to analyze what percentage of the winners are right behind their words, what percentage of the winners are MSZP. We are happy about this, because then it is not something extra that would happen in Hungarian, but the person who writes the best tender will win, as you claim, because the applicants are of age, who are voters, so the election rates can be projected from this. But I'd like to respond to two things. The company in Komárom you mentioned... so I find it difficult to understand because you have not shown us this attitude. Now the problem is, there's only one large farmer. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] who uses public land at 5,000 hectares [[Zoltán Grimlock: How many people do you work for?]] And we say, after his contract is over - we didn't take it away from him, his contract expired - that it might be worth considering whether I'm renting it to that one, or maybe I'm saying that local farmers might be able to apply. You're telling me as a better congressman that this is not the right direction? I thought we agreed to help family farmers. Oh, we're starting to argue that if anyone wins, you think they've seen a fidesz politician or not, that's another question, just please make your point clear. Then do you think it was a mistake to have the land won by family farmers who live on the farm instead of a large farmer on 5,000 hectares? By the way, I wasn't prepared, I can't tell you exactly, or that I wasn't prepared, but I didn't know that it was an example of Komárom. You might want to see how many of them won instead of one, and how many of them you have an objection to. I would like to remind you that there are now more than 7,000 winners of the land for the farmers' programme, and in 2010, around 600 people used the land in the state, and now more than 7,000 people use it. It would be nice to have that conversation here. So let's figure out the number of winners that have problems, and what percentage of the area they have won, by the way. I'd like to add, in any case, where you assume that it's not the right decision, I'm not happy, I'm not happy with it. But what President Balázs Győrffy said, let us be a little proportional to the fact that we are talking about over 7,000 winners here when we dissect this question. The checks were missing, too, by Mr Haughty and Mr Zoltán Magyar. On the one hand, I'd like to practice self-criticism. In the context of the restructuring of the National Earth Fund, we have provided significantly more human resources for inspections, on-the-spot checks, ownership checks than before. Here, too, there is a very nice shady debate, as you will know, as I know, that the ownership checks will begin after a year after entering the estate. What you are criticizing, or otherwise I say, is the over 7,000 winners who won the land for the farmers' programme, out of the 7,000 - in scale, I say - about two thousand of them have come into possession, about half of which has been in possession for a year. So to ask that you develop jobs that have not yet come into possession, and to claim that you do not see in the countryside the growing labour demand that these farmers, who have won, of course you cannot see, a significant part of them has not yet taken possession, or if they have taken possession, they have just started farming. Mr President, Commissioner, I have responded to him in a few ways, and he may have mentioned Kishantos as such a favourite subject. What I can't leave behind, as you are trying to set up the decisions that were made in your time at the end of 2009 in 2010. He says that no decision has been made on large estates during socialist governments. [[Zoltán Haughty: No application.]] without a tender - thank you for complementing it - which basically would have given us the opportunity to distribute land. I would like to say that in the autumn of 2009 and in the spring of 2010, you have managed to pay more than 40,000 hectares; that without bidding or not, this is an interesting question. There was a winner, who alone had the right to use 14,000 hectares, I would say he won it, but did not win it, but his existing contract was extended until 2029. By the way, the 40,000 hectares were very gallant, very beautiful, 30 winners. We have now offered 1100 young farmers on 40,000 hectares. I'm just saying these things as an example of why I'm asking you to compare the two statements with each other. The same situation applies to business plans, as you said, that you will never understand that the same applicant has received an x point for his business plan and a Y for B. If I understand correctly, that's the problem. [[Zoltán Haughty: Yes.]] Dear Congressman, If I tell you something else on a plowyard, I'm applying for a pasture with a certain animal unit, which is 30 hectares, then obviously, in that pasture, my farming plan might be the best. But if I do all this, let's say, on a plow, then I'm not sure that my application will be the best of all. There's nothing evil about it, just like the branches of cultivation change, the bodies of property change, it doesn't matter which one you want to apply for. Reflexively, applying for the same tender to all types of land, all agricultural land, is likely to win on one side and not on the other. In the category of other comments I have written here, I think they will still be discussed, and when I have the opportunity, I will respond to them. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-17-140	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Bajány for a normal comment.
u2015-03-17-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The specific feature of a legislative proposal is that sometimes we react to something that may have been said later. I have no quarrel with Mr Sallai, but I would just like to point out that he mentioned the subject of social cooperatives. I think that, as already stated by the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party in the speech of the Prime Speaker, Mr Gőgös, we will not be able to support the bill overall, but we certainly consider it positive and good, to be highlighted, and even the only positive point of the proposal, that the proposal also creates the possibility for the social cooperative - and here I stress that for the social cooperative - to use the land managed by the NFA under a public employment exploitation contract. The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction has long wanted to bring the Social Cooperatives Act into the House, in addition to the cooperative law, and would like us to discuss it, and then to establish a single position in this. In any case, we think and see that this is a particularly positive part of the bill, by the way. Once again, we cannot support the bill for completely different reasons, but, as I have said, Congressman Haughty has already listed it, so I do not want to repeat it and use it to stall. However, with regard to the bill, if I may say so, I would like to note that the FAO has declared 2015 an international year of soils, with the motto that it is healthy soils for a healthy life. In doing so, the FAO aims to highlight the importance of conscious and sustainable agriculture and nutrition management. On this basis, if the government were indeed important in our protected areas or in the state land assets, it would also provide for the possibility of maintaining soil quality during leases during lease contracts. Given that this is not going to happen, we believe that this is once again proof that Fidesz and the government are trying to re-enact how they will play the state land fortune for the Fidesz circles, but, as I have said, the reasons why we will not be able to support the legislative proposals, Mr Grudges has already listed it, I would not waste time. Thank you. [[Zoltán Haughty applauds.]]
u2015-03-17-142	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar in a normal time frame. [[15.20]]
u2015-03-17-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must start with two reactions; I will certainly try to give an accurate answer to Mr Secretary of State's points. What percentage of the winners are party-bound or who they voted for, I brought it up because we really don't have the basic problem whether a winner voted for Fidesz or not. That's all I wanted to underline. If the land was given to him under the same domain policy guidelines and through a uniform, fair tender, then it really is not about how party-bound the person is. At the same time, the practice shows, and the cases revealed prove to us that this is not the case, and the winners associated with you have certainly not started on the same terms on this tender system. I've given you several examples, that's all I'm saying. And in the case of the company in Komárom, I started by saying that I have no problem taking this land away from them. Indeed, I do not think that public land has been cultivated in line with directives that would be most beneficial, that have not created enough jobs, and that there are still a lot of arguments to be made against them. I don't have a problem with that. My problem is the way these lands were then re-submitted, and in this case in Komárom, I have concerns not only with the later winners, but also, as I have said, with the irrigation anomaly, that they are amazingly getting taxpayers to pay for the irrigation system created by the aid from the European Union, and then their buddies get this much-enhanced land for cultivation at the usual national price of ha. This is what I referred to in both cases, so it is not about protecting former land users. I am pleased that Mr Secretary of State has just responded during the debate, compared to the usual approach, and perhaps some meaningful dialogue will also develop. That's certainly forward-looking. He mentioned that state property could only be transferred to a 100% public body - obviously we were all able to read it out of the legislation, there is no problem with that - but I would ask why in the case of Lake Fertő this is not applied, because it is a state land asset, and for some reason you have been letting an SF for the fifth year now. With the right of eternal free nurturing, drive everyone off that land, while in principle state property - as I said - does nothing - is part of the world heritage and the lake is destroyed. It would really be nice if the Secretary of State responded to that. The rest of your colleagues have done pretty much that, and you've given me the truth, but you haven't done anything. I hope that you will be able to take action in this matter. And it's quite cynical that there's nothing going on with the NFA cases in court. [[Zoltán Grimlock: There will be!]] It's hard enough to imagine, because there are no corruption and sloppy cases in your opinion, and they're not in court. The fact that, in some cases, we have been able to reach a court stage because of errors in the tendering system and its deliberate distributions to buddies, is to be saved, but with the most serious systemic problems, of course, we cannot reach the courts, because by two thirds we have passed laws that make the timetable as land is distributed legal. The only difference between you and the Socialists in managing the state's land is that the Socialists did not have two thirds to legalise that they would give their land to their friends under any suspicious circumstances, and you had the political opportunity to do so, and you took advantage of it. Nevertheless, allow us to draw attention to these matters and try to do everything possible to ensure that public land is used as much as possible on the basis of the common good. Not only do we not see the cooperative law here, which would help us to clarify these matters, but what the government was thinking when it formulated the current proposal, but also, for example, the plant law, which we have already mentioned. It has been said several times now that the government will use this to support small and medium-sized family plants. Then let's be clear about what that means in your vocabulary. Let's finally define what family small and medium-sized enterprises mean to Fidesz. Because if state aid is based on the degression logic that you represented in the Brussels negotiations, then it turns out that you believe that a thousand hectares is a small or medium-sized family economy, I suppose. If they hadn't thought of that, they wouldn't have represented this in the negotiations in Brussels. If it is a thousand hectares, then we have serious debates, and if you have a small family economy of a thousand hectares, thank you, it is not this, and we are thinking about a completely different system of relations on this issue, and in this way it could be a problem to rent these land, because what is small to you can be a large category for us. I also have to respond to my colleague, Mr Róbert Sallai, Benedek, to be very careful about public forest areas, because he is still giving tips here for the government, and next week we will be able to meet in a similar debate, and we can talk again about the problems that could arise with regard to the renting of state forest areas, but also the right to fish and hunt, which will soon be timely, raises the same questions. I would also like to point out why I feel a little flawed in the logic of Mr Secretary of State. The same is true, which is the case in committee discussions on many occasions: agriculture is constantly defined in GDPs and productions, or even in the number of animals. From this point of view, it doesn't matter because we see through the examples mentioned above how to solve the increase in the number of animals. But let us also clarify here in the areas of conservation value that for us it is not the common good, the uplifting of the countryside, or even the agriculture that 10-15 thousand small family farmers in your interpretation do in the Hungarian countryside, but what concerns us and raises problems is that they do not consider the common good as a primary measure in public lands, and they do not receive land as a result of this; respect is the exception, because there is certainly such. We have all raised Kishantos here from a variety of light, and Mr. Secretary of State has mentioned Kishantos' name twice. However, we have heard neither an explanation nor a reason why we should not mention Kishantos in this matter, as this is a warning example of how you stand with these natural values. If you could, please respond to that, because I just mentioned it here as an opposition weapon, but you didn't take this gun out of our hands, and you didn't give us any reason not to mention Kishantos here. And finally, one of my last points, which I have already touched on in part, is the case of the 12 public economies. It's just a rhetorical question, but it's okay to answer it, Mr. Secretary. If these state economies were still in place, you would know, the ones that were purged at the last minute in the 2002 election defeat, would the Fidesz government do the same? If you'd give me an answer, I'd really appreciate it, because we could clear a lot of things up. So if, hypothetically, we had these 12 state economies, how would Fidesz now act? It would be very good if they came forward to maintain their previous logic, and they continue to say that it is very right that this land fortune has been removed from public treatment, or that they would now act in a completely different way, and that they might use these land on a different basis. I think both answers would be quite talkative, and I would welcome them. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-144	I now give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy for a two-minute comment.
u2015-03-17-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I called him, so I'm forced to answer. My fellow Member from Sallai asked me what they expected in this law and who waited for them. Mr President, the delivery of social cooperatives, which has already been mentioned, and the elimination of the problems encountered during the auctions, have been mentioned. I think these are two of the topics you've been expecting. Who? I think it was all the responsible people who were looking forward to this, who needed the responsible management of the state's wealth. Hungarian Congressman said they had no problem with Fidesz. Yes, there is, Congressman. Yes, there is! Your local president spoke in an invaluable voice - that it was one thing - about my father, and to this day they have not apologized to him. And why is that? That's because his twenty-six-year-old pig holdings had a past of 9.6 acres to win. By the way, the application is still on the Internet, you can see it. Then there was a great silence, and no one said on Jobbik's side that we should apologize for this invaluable tone. So what you're saying is not true, Congressman. I'd like to inform you that my father was checked by NFA in January, and he found everything all right. After all, it is still possible for Jobbik's local people to fill the local press in the same volume that my father is not an oligarch, so that he does not have to face all kinds of idiotic accusations in his own settlement. Congressman Grumpy, I make as much money as you do for pennies and forints. If you were aware of the legal environment, you would know that there is no other job for Members of Parliament. Therefore, who lies and for how much money, I leave it to the honourable students. Thank you very much. [[15.30]]
u2015-03-17-146	Now we're going to have two-minute comments again. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Haughty.
u2015-03-17-147	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what has been said about the previous tendering system and the case of the current winners and losers. There's only one problem. If the government has decided to destroy Hungarian livestock farming, then it is on the right track. My Komárom came out, and everyone here told me what a bunch of scoundrels they've developed there, lots of irrigation, thousands of animals. Those thousands of animals are going to disappear there, because they have no ounces of land left, and I'd like to signal it. Not a ounce! I would be very happy to invite everyone to a business where there are about 4,000 cattle and 15 thousand pigs with 200 employees, not minimum wage, but very well paid employees. And I'm gonna show you, we're gonna run it exactly, Mr. Secretary, I've worked a lot in this business, and I'm gonna be able to figure out for you, even now, what the feed balance is for such a livestock. If a government does not take into account in a land contest how the existing livestock will be supplied by that company, it is not a professional decision. Then they'll have to shoot the pig or the cow in the head. In one case, the pig has 40 people fired, 70 percent of the cow. That's what's gonna happen in every company that doesn't even let them win that minimum area, or give it to them, or tell them they have a pre-profit lease, and if they like it and want it, then apply. Because what you're talking about in 2009, you had a pre-profit lease right, and trusting companies that there would be improvements here and that they could give jobs to other people, you've used that right. That was the legal difference. There wasn't anything in those applications, it was just businesses. I was socializing with a company, Mr. Secretary of State, where 1,400 people found a living on 8,000 hectares. This should be the direction in which a person should live every 5 ha in Hungary, not out of cereal production, but from a broad-spectrum agriculture and processing and by-product industries. This would be the goal, and not the type of land use that is currently taking place in Hungary. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew applauds.]]
u2015-03-17-148	For a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-03-17-149	I would like to respond to President Balázs Győrffy. I've never made such a suspicious statement to your father. [[Balázs Győrffy: The locals.]] In fact, when this came up at a committee meeting, I think it was fair to discuss it. I don't think anyone else in this town has a problem with your father winning the land, and I don't think he should be brought here. [[Balázs Győrffy: It's about Jobbíkosok.]] I didn't comment on that. I was talking about the fact that in most cases the problem is not that Fidesz or Fidesz-related people win the land in the first place, but the problem is that we are not playing with the same rules of the game, and that the application logic and system in which the various applicants are tested is not the same. I don't know, and I didn't say that, and I wouldn't say that your father is a part of this circle, but I'll tell you again that if any of you are offended or have a different opinion on the spot, you should discuss it there, we have nothing to do with this.
u2015-03-17-150	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict for a normal comment.
u2015-03-17-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was looking forward to it because I wanted to respond to Mr. Secretary of State. First of all, I would like to respond to my colleague Zsolt Legény. What creates opportunities for social cooperatives and for municipalities is a commendable, forward-looking thing. My colleagues and I have been visiting small villages from Baranya to Borsod for weeks. We are also trying to establish a position for the LMP on the Start Public Works Programme, and we see in a pile of places efforts where it would be very helpful to have public land available to provide these programmes for value-creating work. The point is that we fully agree on this, and that direction is good for us too. I did not say these things because, as a opposition politician, I did not feel that I had to say anything positive about this because, in itself, Mr Secretary of State, he could radiate so much confidence that I did not feel that I still had to praise him in anything, because he acted confidently enough in the debate. So I didn't mention the positives, so I apologize with respect. Well, technically, thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Keep up the good work. The only problem I have is that I have some questions that I haven't been answered because there's been a lot of talk. But for example, I did not get an answer to how Marcel Szabó shares his views as a lawyer with his reaction. He believes that the destruction of nature protection raises constitutional concerns. I'm curious because he didn't respond. He also did not respond to the fact that Minister Sándor Fazekas and Zsolt V. Németh, who both said in different places that they did not pull the land out of the national parks, were now lying, or something else happened, that they had been deceived or deceived. I didn't like that. In the same way, I notice you didn't like to respond to what I said about 2/A. I read that law, it wasn't what you liked to say. It was put in a different way, which caused concern. I didn't really like to think about it when I asked how the system would take into account how the area would be used in a given natural year, under the circumstances, in the process of unifying protected areas. So far, the natural guardian of the national park has been given specific instructions and has been a continuous dialogue. But how many nature conservation specialists do NFA have? I'd like to ask you this, please answer that. It's a quantitative thing, it's measurable. How many nature conservationists, biologists, ecology conservation engineers? How many NFAs have anything to do with being able to judge what's needed? I liked to tell you about the corruption case. Wow, that never occurred to NFA. Excuse me, we can read other psychics. But feel free to help me, Mr. Secretary, lawyer, I don't, so I don't know how to do this. The last time I dealt with this, I understand it was crimes that threatened the purity of public life. Corruption is a summary term. The purity of public life can be threatened at relatively many stages, not only by putting money in someone's pocket, but also by many other things that destroy faith in public power. Now, if something destroys faith in public power, then what happened at NFA is guaranteed. I took the liberty of referring to that. I apologized for hurting your sensitivity. Didn't you say that national parks are now acting like they're doing nature conservation treatment on a daily basis, even though they're renting a part of it now? So you're saying that national parks aren't doing this nature conservation management job right now. Obviously, this can be disproved very easily, numerically. I found something you didn't answer. I asked you to tell me what kind of conservationists you've been consulting. You forgot to answer that, too. Just like when I asked you what you thought the future of national parks was. How will they be financed, what will be their task, how will they farm, because it obviously affects this matter. And when I get to the end of it, yeah, I was happy to hear the beginning of his speech about his lovely story about high school years. You did mention Kishantos, didn't you? I did not mention that in my comment. Didn't you say everything was legit? I wonder, by the way, if the brother William mentioned is sad about you when he hears such things, because apparently he should prevent legality from being raised to good morals. Because in the case of Kishantos, we can talk about this in a very large way. I, as I said, do not know the law, but I can certainly see that legality and good morals do not always go hand in hand. So, overall, I did not receive any meaningful answers to these questions. The speech was very good, but I did not like to answer these 11-12 questions in any form. As a result, I can tell you from your answer, as Brother William said, that this is insufficient, sit down. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-152	I now give the floor to István Nagy, a two-minute comment.
u2015-03-17-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to share some information about the Komárom dairy, because it would be very bad if the problem spread. My classmate works there, he's one of the specialists on that site. We talk about this colony in a daily relationship. There is very serious work going on, there are very excellent results on that site, and I would like to point out that it is not a matter of thinking about giving up. They think about how they can contract with those who have won management in the field, how they can use them as a feed production base in order to be balanced with a new type of cooperation, to ensure that they operate there. I must say to you that the Hungarian Government is particularly important in managing and helping livestock production. The fact that unprecedented subsidies are coming to livestock production in order to preserve employment and promote rural survival, the fact that the cattle sector is receiving unprecedented support from both EU and domestic sources, I think it all demonstrates that there is such a degree of cooperation between the sector and the government, there must be such cooperation between local farmers and dairy cows that it can bring a common success and a common result in the future. [[15.40]] I am very rooting for the economy in Komárom, precisely because they can be the first to prove that this new type of cooperation can successfully maintain dairy production, it is also possible to achieve results in the cattle sector without land use. I think that, given this, we can get a very positive result in the future. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-154	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gögös, in two minutes.
u2015-03-17-155	Thank you. I'm not going to continue the animal-keeping debate, but let me tell you one thing. I don't think it's normal for us to roll what's square and carry what's round. All I said was that it should have been taken into account, and this is especially true of Hortobágy, not of a large company there, but of hundreds of small farmers who have been grazing on those pastures for 15-20-30-50 years with plenty of sheep and usually cattle for fattening, that the locals should agree. No one would have complained that at least as many areas would remain or remain in such a business, which would provide for, say, the need for fibre feed for those plants and provide for the possibility to plant manure. The problem is where nothing like this stays. That's the trend. Because in the long term, there won't be a company manager who buys; even the bulk feed is delicate, because everyone knows that there is a normal silo if I do it for myself and take care of it, and I know that in those two or three weeks, today's technique is in place, and then I'm sure it's okay. Anyone who doesn't know the serious dairyes may not know it, but a dairy with an average yield of over 10,000 litres is just like a bear in Transylvania: not a toy. So in Hungarian: it's not like there's a moldy hay bala that gets in from a purchased feed, and then I'm throwing out the whole herd because I'm destroying them with a liver problem. So anyone who doesn't know that must be able to make those decisions. I miss these thoughtful decisions, why, let's say, on Hortobágy, we couldn't get the farmers to sit down, and say, boys, here's 40,000 sheep, this 40,000 sheep, I have to provide the pasture, and then what's left of the land, that's where the new players come. I'm looking for the same thing in companies, that whatever support there is, there won't be any land to carry the fertilizer and the fertilizer out, and they won't if this generation, ours, dies out, Mr. Secretary of State. There won't be anyone to do that. That's what you need to understand. 15-year-old kid doesn't get up at 5:00 to milk a cow. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And no one in the family farm will get up at 5:00 a.m. milking cows. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-17-156	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-03-17-157	Thank you very much. Only here in my notes did I find one more thing that I wanted to respond to, Mr Secretary of State, because he was kind enough to say that the May Other Politics might be arguing about this because it could be used for political capital; I think this term was used. We don't have to think too much about each other, so I don't expect this, but if you think, Mr. Secretary of State, that the group of those concerned about national parks and Hungarian nature conservation is the voting base with which the LMP wants to win an election, then you overestimate the size of this voting base a little bit. So I can assure you that this is not the case, and we do not believe that this is a substantial political capital. It is a value signal, what we represent in this debate as well. In my next regular comment, I would be happy to repeat my questions, so I would like to thank you if I could get a concrete answer to these questions, and I would ask you with respect. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-158	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar in a normal time frame of comments.
u2015-03-17-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The end of nature conservation in Hungary, or at least in that direction, is not only claimed by opposition parties, and not only by civil society organisations that I have already listed at the beginning of the debate, but also by your former State Secretary, Zoltán Illés, who explained this very loudly and very passionately in several interviews. Not only in relation to this law, but also in terms of the process that started with regard to the protection of nature, I share these fears. Even if, in the course of his former undersecretary's work, we have had numerous debates and disagreements, if not in other matters, in the area of domestic water regulation. I hope, however, that Mr Secretary of State can still take the time in the debate to respond to us, but if he does not, I may not be able to press a button anymore. So I would like to read the end of the letter here, which I have already quoted several times, about the letter signed or issued by the Hungarian Society for Biology and Nature Conservation, the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors and the WWF Hungary, which, as we have already mentioned, is also owned by more than a hundred civil and environmental organisations. In their view, the expected benefits of achieving the desired result are mentioned here in the alleged lack of coherence in the legal order, the standardised procedure, are not in proportion to the disadvantages of the changes caused by the amendment, where the transfer of expropriation, pre-emption processes, malfunctions due to the lack of compliance with the administrative criteria, and cooperation disruptions between organisations, which will ultimately lead to a deterioration of the natural condition in the state-owned protected natural areas. I think that is the essence of this debate and the most important thing to say in this debate, that it is not in proportion at all to what the Secretary of State thinks it is, and we think it is a real and very worrying disadvantage that this change will cause, the benefits that I do not recognise, but if I accept that this change will deliver these benefits, it is not proportionate. We can't accept it that way. And about the fears about managing and renting state land, and there have been a lot of debates about it, and I think that it is a foam on the cake, and it finally underlines why the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will vote against this draft. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-160	In a two-minute time frame, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy.
u2015-03-17-161	[[You will begin your comment without putting your microphone on.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to express very simply and very clearly the fears that we read in today's media that the decline in nature conservation areas and the black day of nature conservation are when these areas come to the NFA. What's this about? [[He's pinning his microphone.]] It is all in all that the lease contracts are then signed by NFA, not by the Board of Directors of the National Park. Professional work, professional control on every square metre of the nature conservation area is the same, and it is also the mandatory professional task of the national park directorate. So the value of the national park, the professional work in the national park, cannot be reduced at all. If you break this, from here, from this place, we tell you that it can have very serious consequences. It is not possible to act against the professional work of the national park board in these rented areas. Therefore, no activity can occur which would make it possible to say from today that if the NFA has the right to use the lease, it would mean a reduction in the value of nature conservation areas or a reduction in conservation work or conservation value. That's what I wanted, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-162	I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-03-17-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to respond to Mr. Secretary of State. If that's true, and the only thing that's really going on is who's going to sign these leases from now on, then I'd like some answers. On the one hand, what will replace the loss of revenue in national parks. Where are the guarantees, why didn't we get them, why can't we see them? After all, the tasks that have been carried out in these areas will therefore have to continue to be carried out from a nature conservation point of view. Therefore, in this form, resources should be allocated to it, because this is a significant loss of resources for national parks, which we are debating today. That's one of them. The second is that if the NFA, as a trustee, does not have any nature conservation experience at all, and there are no such professionals, or at least none, named, as far as I know, there is no such person at the NFA, then this will work pretty bumpy between the NFA and the national parks. So that it would be good to have a guarantee or guarantee of this, both in terms of human resources and in terms of resources, both we and the national parks, because I have spoken to a national park director who is also not in possession of these fundamental issues, which is, let's face it, quite worrying. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-164	Sallai R. Benedek has applied for a normal comment and two minutes, I don't know which one you'd like to use, Congressman. [[Sallai R. Benedek: The next one. I don't know which one's next, normal or two-minute.]] All right. Then I'll give you the floor in a normal time frame. [[15.50]]
u2015-03-17-165	Thank you very much. In fact, it will be brief, Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I just wanted to respond to the fact that I would be willing to believe what the Secretary of State has to say, but the problem is that this draft legislation, which has been put before us, does not contain this. You're saying it's all about who signs the contract. That's not what this is about. So this is worth looking at, because it's about handing over the entire asset management rights and not about what you wanted to say. So the problem with this is that the implementation of our nature conservation programmes requires property management rights throughout Europe. Civil society organisations and public foundations also seek to exercise ownership rights to implement the programmes. If there's another trustee, the NFA, between nature conservation and the state, they won't stand a chance. Technically, the NFA will write out the applications at its own discretion, give them to whoever it wants, no matter if they're fidesz, they're not fidesz, so they're anyone. Suppose, in a fair tender system, that even if there is the most correct tender system, there is no right to retain the possibility of preserving natural values here. So this is the concern that this codified version is not about this, but about the full transfer of property management rights to the NFA and the weeding of safeguards that have so far allowed the national park to preserve natural values. This is important because practically since 1992, the cooperative law, the 1992 II. Since law - Mr. Secretary of State helps me with this - no one has dared to touch the fact that buying a protected area automatically, let's say, the national park should be the trustee. Since 92, there hasn't been anyone to question that. This 20-some-year rule, which every government has - you can say who was a mobster and who was a gangster - has been respected so far, everyone has respected it for the first time, and this is obviously what gives us concern, because so far there has been an established system, it has worked on some level, there have been grains of sand in it, and not everything has gone as it should have, but now this guarantee, everything is going out of the system. Obviously, this is why we are not talking so much about the NFA, but about the Hungarian nature conservation situation, because the strategic issue of this is the decision that we have ahead of us. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-17-166	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] If not, the general debate will be closed and I will ask if the rapporteur wishes to comment. Yes, this is Secretary of State Martin Bitay. You have the floor.
u2015-03-17-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I do not want to argue with Mr Zoltán Gőgös - we have already carried out these debates - but rather to summarise very briefly that the fundamental difference between us - and here I felt the same with regard to the company in Komárom - is that it is now a big estate or a small estate. I think that the fundamental difference is that the Hungarian Socialist Party - and I say this as no offense - is a matter of world view, who wants to develop agriculture and how it sees the future of agriculture - the Hungarian Socialist Party believes that in large-scale farms there is a future, talking about thousands of cows, thousands of livestock, thousands of hectares. We respect that, but we disagree with it, we believe in small and medium-sized businesses in the family. Hungarian MP Zoltán gave me the opportunity to transfer points for the thousand hectares. I would like to bring to your attention the average value of the programme for the farmers, which is a matter of political affiliation. In this program, an average winner won 1,1 estates, and this 1,1 estate is 38,5 hectares, that is the average. But don't let us fool each other because the average can set us aside because the winners have a very strong 2.5 percent over 100 hectares. So the average is that if I add that 2.5 percent, but even if I take it off, the absolute waist of the winners is less than 100 hectares. I'm not saying that because there is no debate between us - and I hope there is no - that 80 percent of the winners are natural persons, 78 percent of the land was won by these individuals. So I don't know what thousands of acres you mean, we're on the side of small and medium-sized businesses in the family. That's another question, the thousand acres from wherever I look, seems like a big economy to me, but what I can tell you is that it obviously depends on what kind of production we're talking about. So the proportion of small and large farms is different, let's say, if you look at them in a vegetable-fruit sector, especially in the area, but it's different in a field crop sector, another in a livestock sector, it's a shame to wash them together here. You claim that tender procedures can fly because we have amended various two-thirds laws, which is why we can do this; that's what you found to say. I would like to stress that there are no legislative amendments to the tendering systems in this way. There is a state asset, the government decides on the use of state property, the terms and conditions of the tender, they are not two-thirds laws, it is an invitation to tender. Special, speaking of national parks, there's a VM decree that the minister makes, and he signs it, and he decides on the conditions under which we use it. There is no two-thirds, but there is no law in this regard. I still disagree with you on the Komárom side. I think it would be absurd for someone to take on an investment under the framework of an EU project and undertake this investment on the ground in such a way that they know that their lease period for land is ending before the maintenance period for the application, that you would like to draw the conclusion from this with the government that we should have new farmers pay the cost of this tender, and I do not agree with you, that is pure truth. It might be worth considering how someone could have won such a tender while, when they submitted their application, they would see in the criticism that their land lease contract would expire before they could have obtained it, so this is a more interesting question. I don't agree with what you said, but of course I respect your opinion. Congressman Róbert Benedek Sallai has indicated that we are pulling the land out from under the national parks. I'd like to ask you why you feel like we're pulling the ground out. The National Park acquires the right of trust in those lands of the National Land Fund, which it has already leased, not those where it has implemented a Bustard Recreation Program. So I don't understand why you want to talk to us and the people who follow this debate, that anyone here would get hurt. It's just that what the national park didn't use, it's a lease, and that's all I can keep telling you. You're asking nature conservation experts at NFA, so I'm sorry, Congressman, but you just don't understand the concept of law. The National Land Fund does not need conservation professionals, because the national park will continue to determine the conservation use of that land, and as he has already checked, he will continue to do so. Why would nature conservation professionals be at the national park? Again, with regard to money, I can only tell you that you will take the law into your hands and read it. It says here that the rent is going to the national park either way. So what kind of loss of fees are we talking about, Congressman? It's written in the law, the rental fee goes to the national park, he's doing all the conservation signs, and he's running the check. All I can say to you, listening to the debate, is that I understand - how should I put it - the interestingness of this debate, that it is about the state land, and that it is possible to create a serious debate, but I was hoping that there would be no difference between us today, that it is a good thing that public land is not managed in 10, 20, 30, 40 places, but that it is managed in one place. [[16.00]] I thought that you would see that behind this government intention is a unified concept of government land management, which makes sense that individual sectors have the right to have a say in what they have to say and it is important to have a say, but the management of the land itself should be at the National Earth Fund in addition to a unified system of state resources. I just wanted to say to Mr Róbert Benedek that I have answered his questions about the law and put them to the law. I hope that I can say the same with regard to Mr Zoltán Magyar. Please accept these answers. I hope that we will be able to adopt the law, and you will understand that it is very important that, like other assets, we manage the state's land assets in a uniform manner. Thank you very much for allowing me to participate in the debate and for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-17-168	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws relating to property registration and surveying until closure. The submission was made in T/3786. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to the secretary of state, István Nagy, who is now in office, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2015-03-17-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The draft before you proposes to amend five laws on land registration and survey issues: the 1990 XCIII on levies. LXXXV of 1996 on the amendment of Act No 18 and on the administrative service fee for a certified copy of the deed. Act No CXLI of 1997 on the Real Estate Register Act XLVI of 2012 on surveying and mapping activities. Law 6; CCXIX of 2012 on mountain villages. Act XCIII of 2014 on the amendment of laws relating to the establishment of a central register and to certain administrative matters. Law. I would like to briefly explain the reasons for each amendment in the context of the exposé. As a result of the amendment of the levy law and the Act on the Service Fee for Property Copy, there is scope for substantive exemptions for nature conservation rights, such as protected natural areas and Natura 2000 sites, as well as for recording the legal nature of the wine grape register and permanent pasture or permanent grassland, as well as for changes in data resulting from the withdrawal of closed garden properties. The purpose of the amendment is to promote the registration of real estate registers of nature conservation rights by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights 2287/2012. In line with its report No 1. Long-term non-registration of protected natural areas and environmental restrictions, restricted areas and values in the real estate register raises a risk of maladministration, in addition to legal certainty, and therefore it is essential to resolve the issue. The recording, modification and deletion of these legal features will, by virtue of their subject matter, fall within the scope of free real estate registration procedures. The introduction of the exemption does not result in a loss of revenue by the real estate authority, as these registration requests have not been submitted to the land offices since 2010. There is no budgetary burden. The amendment of the Real Estate Registration Act is justified by the establishment of a single case-law and the consistency with other legislation. To this end, the draft puts forward proposals to change certain legislative provisions in the field of real estate registration, some of which are text-focused. The amendment concerning the rules for the receipt of data from the central address register and the notification of the address body contains the technical clarifications necessary for the functioning of the public register. The bill also includes rules for the removal from cultivation of closed garden properties. The amendment allows the owner to request, for a transitional period until 31 December 2016, the transfer of his property registered in the real estate register as a closed garden as an area excluded from cultivation. The transfer of the agricultural branch of the closed garden property as an area excluded from cultivation may also be requested for a specific part of the closed garden property. In this case, the closed garden property shall be shared. Of course, the real estate registration procedure for the removal of private property from cultivation is free of any material charge. By supplementing the rules on the abolition of the right of land right, the bill facilitates the clarification of the facts in the real estate registration procedure for the deletion of the right of use and right of use between non-close relatives on 1 May 2014 and thus ceased under the power of the law. This is done by the fact that, if the client is not informed of the relevant request, the real estate authority itself will contact the competent registry manager to check the close relatives' relationship. It is also a supplementary proposal that if the real estate authority, on the basis of the available data, no doubt finds that the holder of the registered right of use has passed away, the law will remove the law from the real estate register of its own motion. The law is supplemented by a customer-friendly provision in the interest of citizens, which provides for an appeal against a decision of the Land Office to waive the right to benefit a client who fails to make a declaration. The client has the possibility to verify the existence of close relations with the original documents submitted to the appeal, such as a birth certificate. The proposal also contains clarification rules for the provision of part data from the data content of the ownership sheet. The result of the change in the surveying law is that the condition of the real estate land surveyor is changed. An indefinite qualification is limited to five years and a provision on the administrative service fee for re-subsidisation has become necessary. The extension fee will be regulated in the new fee regulation to be created. In the text currently in force, after the quality control test, the wording must be clarified as different interpretations have been developed in the application of the legislation. The digital relief model is not part of the base data database of the state, but it is produced from the state topographical map and the basic element of orthophoto production, which, in turn, will be part of the state remote sensing database after the state takeover. It is therefore appropriate that the digital relief model be included in compensatory data. The registration of the holders of the transfer and replacement of the base points and the administrative service fee for registration have been regulated. With regard to registration, the Institute for Geology and Remote Sensing shall keep a public-credited register, which shall be made available free of charge to everyone on its website. In the course of registration, the applicant's compliance with the legal conditions shall be verified, including an on-the-spot check at the applicant's premises. The presentation of the amending proposal is also particularly justified by the fact that the areas registered as forests in the national forest inventory and in the real estate register differ. In the absence of a source in the national forest stock data base, the data on the real estate register was not continuously transferred. In the real estate register there are 70 429 landmarks on 1,897,171 hectares of forest cultivation. The value of these data is nearly 140 million forints. In terms of the ten-year renovation cycle of the national forest data base, the loss of the land sector is nearly HUF 14 million annually. After the amendment, it will finally be possible to harmonise the data of the two registers free of charge. [[16.10]] In accordance with the Government Decision setting up the State Reform Committee, a penalty for failure to notify a change resulting in a change in the content of the real estate register map database shall be cancelled. The detailed provisions of the draft provide for the establishment of a uniform interpretation of the law in respect of the public-credited content, data provision and compensation of the real-estate registration map database, the procedure for adjustment of the survey, mapping or area calculation error, the storage of remote sensing data, the examination of survey workpieces, the scrapping of survey workpieces, and the geodesical design and geometry expert certification procedure. A number of emerging social needs have also made it timely to amend the Mountain Community Law. Wine grape cadastralisation gives rise to a number of rights and obligations in relation to a plot of land in the case of landowner or land user, but the fact that the wine grape cadastral belongs to the wine grape cadastral does not appear on the ownership sheet. This problem can be eliminated by the fact that the body leading to the place of production also communicates its decisions on the wine grape cadastral cadastral to the land office. According to the new provision, the ownership sheet must indicate, as a legal character, that the property is classified in the wine grape cadastral cadastral. Knowing that a land is belonging to a wine-growing cadastral cadastral helps both the land administration and customers. The proposal contains a clarification clause on the rank of the member of the mountain village as regards the pre-lease right and the data circles for which the judge provides information. The amendment allows free access not only to the land register but also to the land use register to the mountain judge in order to carry out his duties in relation to the granting of planting and grubbing-up permits and the registration of resettlement rights. The draft brings the provisions of the Mountain Community Act into line with the provision of the National Agricultural Chamber of Economics to be amended in order to eliminate the double contribution of members of the mountain community also engaged in agricultural activities. Dear Parliament, In summary, let me stress once again that it is absolutely necessary to adopt the bill in order to establish a common case-law. Although the draft appears to be salad-like, its provisions essentially concern one area of law, and the amendment of some of the laws which form part of it is so small that the work of Parliament was not intended to be burdened by the government with their separate negotiations, but presented a packaged proposal to this House. I would like to ask my fellow Members, on the basis of the reasons given, to discuss the bill and then adopt it at their discretion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-170	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the keynote speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Balázs Győrffy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-17-171	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal on the agenda, which proposes to amend the laws relating to property registration and surveying, is essentially designed to reduce the burden on those affected. Each amendment serves the purpose of continuing the work aimed at further refining the system of real estate registration in Hungary. Citizens rightly expect that the procedures for property in their possession, often held as a means of production, are simple and reasonable, but it is also important that charges relating to land traffic do not constitute a disproportionately heavy financial burden. The fact that they have found understanding ears has been evidence since 2010 of laws and government measures. Without listing in detail the elements of the current bill, allow me to highlight in particular the amendment recommending that the change in data resulting from the removal from cultivation of enclosed garden properties be exempt from tax. In Hungary, closed gardens have made life easier for thousands of families for decades, whether for recreation, recreation or for the family's needs for fruit and vegetables. For many, plants produced there contribute to everyday livelihoods. The amendment allows the procedure for the removal from cultivation of property currently registered as a closed garden, which is therefore subject to the Land Traffic Act, to be free of charge. This is a significant relief in terms of their sale. Furthermore, the proposal may have a significant impact on the speeding up of official work in cases that remain under the law, as the number of cases will be less. In the case of closed gardens, if this proposal is voted by the majority of this House, the Law on Real Estate Records may change so that, until 31 December 2016, the owner may request that the property of the closed garden be transferred to the register as an area excluded from cultivation. It should also be emphasised that a separate implementing regulation is also being prepared for this. The proposal of the referral, which is the CXIX of 12 on mountain villages, also serves rationalisation and harmonisation. The aim is to amend the law. For the member of the mountain village, it becomes clear at what rank the pre-leaser is entitled to and what data circles the judge provides information on. Following the proposal, in order to avoid double contributions from the members of the mountain community also engaged in agricultural activities, compliance with the Chamber Act is finally achieved in legal codification. The bill now before this House also contains the 2012 XLVI on surveying and mapping activities. Proposals for amendment of law, which are also a common guiding principle for consistency, i.e. to bring the real estate registration map database into line with the state of nature, should be governed by the scope of the data on which the fact of public credibility can be ensured. I can only hope that there will also be sufficient consistency among my fellow Members in the fact that these are important and valuable changes and are therefore eligible. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support T/3786 with your comments and then with your vote. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-172	I now give the floor to Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-03-17-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As we heard from the Minister of State in the author's exposé, the bill contains virtually five amendments to the bill, partly due to the practical problems of recent years and partly for technical clarification purposes, the Secretary of State has listed these five legislative proposals. We think it says a lot about the legislative quality of the government, that three of the five laws that are now being amended were even made in the 2010-14 cycle. The general justification for the bill, which is now before us, is merely to list these five laws, which it proposes to amend. We believe that this legal solution, if I can use such a word, is amazing, in no way satisfying the conceptual criteria for general justification, because on this basis the initiating of the law cannot summarize the substance of the proposal in any sentence. This is no wonder to us, since we do not believe that this proposal has any meaningful, substantive meaning. In fact, previous incorrect wording, unclear, not accurate norm texts are being clarified. The norm of the agricultural legislation clearly shows that a number of incomprehensible or at least several possible interpretations have been drawn up, which are problematic in the daily application of the law. Thus, this proposal, as we have said or mentioned, contains most of the technical provisions that are precise, and there is little new in it. If I could highlight a law - and I would like to say the figures very precisely here - the 2012 XLVI on surveying and mapping activities. Some of the provisions of the Act did not enter into force in 2012, but pushed the entry into force into force until 1 July 2013 according to the original legislative intention. This deadline for 2013 has been extended for the first time to 1 July 2015, but the current proposal - and I quote it precisely - already provides a justification for 1 July 2017 and, in one case, as from 1 July 2018. This shows that the government cannot keep the original legal deadlines and is unable to reform the ground map database on these grounds. Overall, although, as I said, technical clarifications would be included in this bill before us, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party would like to draw attention to both the method of lawmaking and criticism of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, so it is very likely that the MSZP Group will be present in the vote, although this position has not yet been fully matured. [[16.20]] All in all, as I said, it contains technical and legislative amendments, as the Secretary of State said, which appear as a quasi-salad, where a lot of technical clarification appears. However, in order to draw attention to the many cases where the government has made a mistake in terms of legislation, we are very likely to abstain, as I said. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-174	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar from Jobbik's faction.
u2015-03-17-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. We're in trouble with this amendment. Basically, the technical parts that it amends are eligible, and Jobbik has already called for a number of them in recent years. If I look at - and I have seen - our amendments which appeared on Jobbik's part at the first, second, third referral of these legislation, then it is clear that we have already drawn attention to some of these problems. Whether in the closed gardens or in other laws, we can set a number of such examples. I am only mentioning this here to the Secretary of State that it would be good to take the criticisms and amendments of the opposition seriously at times. Of course, there is certainly a time when we do not see things well, and there is not necessarily an intention of an opposition amendment that would be accepted with a good heart, I can believe, Mr State Secretary, but in this particular case I can certainly say four amendments that we have tabled in the debate on these laws - I would just like to point this out. And, by the way, I can only call it a mockery of legislation when a piece of legislation comes before this House several times. Everyone can accept the fact that, in the course of practice, in a year's time, the way in which the legislation did not fulfil its expectations or which paragraphs should be amended in such a way that it is realistic or that the relevant EU standards may have changed. So there may be many reasons to amend a law, but in many cases this is not what we see, but rather the result of hasty legislation. Otherwise, we will submit our amendments to this draft legislation in good time. I wouldn't read these here one at a time, because that would be very legal, which is not my area, but we found something to refine properly about this submission. I hope that you will be constructive about this, and then we will most likely be able to support this draft. That is what I wanted to say briefly, Mr President. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-176	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-03-17-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am very pleased that this proposal is before us, because I can already deny the words of Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs, who said that whoever has a hammer sees everything as being broken. Now I would like to prove our constructive opposition activity, and I would like to have a little professional dialogue with Mr Great Secretary of State, because, in practice, here too, a slight support or a firm stay can easily look like one. The very good news is that it seems that there are no mines in this proposed rule, it seems very good that there is nothing in it that would harm the Hungarian people, so this is already a fully forward-looking thing in this legislation. I would like to ask the Secretary of State for your help on some technical and some interpretation issues. The first one - I didn't say it would be like this - is ideological, because now, after the reduction of the rent, this is the new word, "the reduction of bureaucracy"! It occurs to us, perhaps your experts will also deal with this, that in the Scandinavian method of registering land, land records are basically public. Personal rights in Hungary are different from those in the Scandinavian states, but it may not be wrong to look at the aspects in which publicity may be created in a single element in order to improve transparency. Let me give you a concrete example of this. It would be a typical reduction of bureaucracy if the legislation would automatically create the possibility for those persons subject to public property obligations who are otherwise obliged to make their property public in their declaration of property. In practice, it would be possible to eliminate the fact that I do not know what to include in the declarations of assets of various growing houses, because if these public figures were automatically made public by law, it would simplify the declaration of assets and, at the same time, create a transparent, secure system. We suggest that you consider this. Our lawyers have also drawn our attention to a professional matter. The bill is 5. Article 52/A of the Real Estate Registration Act. The following paragraph 4 is added to Article 52 of the Act on the Protection of Nature to the requesting authority in the proceedings for the recording, deletion or modification of the legal nature of the nature defined by the Act on the Protection of Nature, as set out in paragraph 3 of Article 52. In accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, those entitled shall be served by means of a notice. I only wanted to draw the Secretary of State's attention to this because it is quite identical to the wording we discussed in the administrative salad, the government accepted it, and then the head of state said that in his opinion it was wrong and sent it back. So this applies the same legal form as the administrative salad, so this obviously limits customer rights. If I were the author, I would certainly amend that before you go to the President of the Republic. There's one in there that I would also like your clarification or your help. This Real Estate Registration Act 68/A. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 of this Act is replaced by the following:. The data content of the deed, as defined in the Ministerial Decree issued under the mandate of this Act, and the information generated from it by processing, may be accessed by electronic means by the right holders, as laid down in the Regulation, in the form of a partial data service. It is not entirely clear about this data service, because we do not know whether TakarNet or the ground office are trying to restrict online accessibility. So it's not entirely clear here what part of the data service can tell you then. If we could get a reassuring answer to that, that would help. And then there are two other things I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to about this legislation. As a specialist, the Secretary of State knows, probably better than I, that, let's say, cereals produced in agricultural production belong to the family of grasses and are produced continuously. In the same way, let us say, an area registered as meadow or pasture in Hungary, such as a brush lawn or chenkees, is also made up of grasses. Nevertheless, one is planned to be installed, so we keep it under intensive cultivation, say, a wheat tablet or a barley tablet, while the other, we mow the lawn. This means a special branch of cultivation in the land registry. Now, in the case of forests in Hungary, there are tree plantations where nobles with the same genetic content are planted in hectares - just as the wheat tablet is planted, slaughtered, replanted, so the end-use - let's say, these nobles with the same genetic stock are produced. Now, it is an unbelievable professional mistake that in recent decades this has not been distinguished from the biological forest in terms of cultivation, and that you would have help or help the government at all if you kept track of what the forest is and what the tree plantation is. There are also international examples of this. I don't know why, as a civilian, I have often said this to various representatives of different governments. Obviously, I have dealt with forests and the natural values of forests, and I have always been very concerned that forestry statistics can never show a real picture, because we never know that, let's say, the completely alien pine trees, let's say, in the Kiskunság, are now considered biological forests, so they are in no way identical to the different forest associations of the Middle Mountains. It would be very, very good if we finally touched this and introduced that in the forest stock, what is in artificial installation, we would be completely separate. And then there's one last thing I wanted to say about, I don't know if I should ask, or rather share my concerns with the Secretary of State: this concerns closed gardens. I really like closed gardens, there's a lot of reasons for that. Practically in the settlement structure of the lowland, in the towns of the field, it became very distinctive that such 20-30 hectares of closed gardens were formed - the squared codrate is called the Plain - with such 300-600 rectangular parcels, 900 squares. In intensive agricultural areas, very, very good habitats are maintained with small-scale cultivation, and not only contributes to local livelihoods and kitchen gardens and such, but also can be classified as such small-scale biodiversity hot spots, because there is a lot of focus here. Now, we've got two problems on our hands. One is that, in the case of closed gardeners that are directly bordering on a populated area, it has already been illegally installed. [[16.30]] Many municipalities have taken advantage of the possibility of taking closed gardens in one area at a time. I think it was a mistake, but I don't want to judge myself, so let's just say the municipality, or the communities on the ground, decide whether it's good or not. The problem is, the question is how this right to dispose of municipalities will change after 2016. To this day, it is possible to say, for example, bath settlements, where, next to the tourist attraction object, the resort area was formed in closed gardens, and I do not know how the municipalities will act on them when applying the legislation, so I have a little concern about this. The obvious thing here would be to exclude these from farming in such cases, when there is actually a holiday home or something, that this legislation has to be implemented somehow, because it is the death of the law if it is not applied. That's one of them. The other is that in the case of closed gardens where, say, old orchards have survived - in Gemer we know a lot of these, but in the lowland areas, too, there are a lot of such old orchards, which have been for up to a hundred years - but in these cases, I can tell you honestly, I am concerned about the implementation of these areas. Overall, I have never liked greenfield investments, but losing agricultural land in the form of land, I do not think it is a good direction, because these small areas can also be very, very valuable. So if I had to think about such regulations, I would certainly distinguish between the distance from the residential area and the use it is currently in, so it has already been illegally converted into a resort zone or not, because obviously it would be good for us to pursue legality with this regulation. However, in places where it actually maintains a diverse habitat with small-scale farmers, very, very small holders, which we don't usually talk about here, who don't have 1 hectare, and still have a two-horse car every day, so it would be nice to maintain these, and I'm not sure I would do that. But there may not be such a risk, because in the case of such ones, no one will ask for it to be removed from production, and then it is not a danger, but at the moment I cannot assess whether it is a threat, because if the municipalities also remove those from the production area, let us say, 30 hectares of closed gardens, then that is a big problem. So if you want to turn these into industrial areas or something, that's a problem. If there is no such danger, but, as I said, I do not know how many municipalities have many closed gardens, but it is also a danger. So it would be nice if the safety valve in this connection could be put in somehow. Obviously, that's what I'm going to think about with the amendment. Otherwise, as I said, we do not see any problems in it, so we will either be able to support it, especially if the amendment somehow passes, or we can do so passively by abstaining, and this is how we can facilitate it. Obviously, if the LMP were to steer, it would be different. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew applauds.]]
u2015-03-17-178	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speech. Before the two-minute comments begin, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-03-17-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to answer the questions raised so far in a few words, since Mr Sallai R. Benedek has listed some points that are good to clarify. Let us begin with the question of closed gardens, because it is indeed a matter that we cannot go without saying a word. I must say that this provision precisely helps to create different solutions in different areas, so this must not be a result of central management, but can be diversified according to local will. In Hungarian, this means that communities that are in a tourist area are already used as holiday homes, or would like to use them in such a way, and are upset that they cannot build for the child there, even though it is a nice green environment and could be developed in infrastructure, then we will allow you to do this, because you can still live a quality life in such a green area. However, in areas that actually serve recreation, where it is cultivated, where there is a sparkling agricultural and small-garden farming mode, it must, of course, be allowed to operate. So it is not possible to make a general rule, because the surrounding area of Lake Balaton, the area of Lake Tisza or the vicinity of Lake Velencei gives a very different perspective, and yet again the edge of our agricultural towns gives something else, where these closed gardens were formed when they moved from the villages. We have a living relationship with these, like gardening associations. They're infinitely sympathetic people, they do wonders in these gardens with endless fantasies, we have to give them the opportunity. I think this law gives you the opportunity to do so. With regard to the separation of the nobles, the forest and the tree plantation, let me just say that you raised it at the right time. What I can recommend is that we open it up, continue our dialogue with the forestry. Once again, this cannot be discussed without forestry, without forest farmers. It would help a lot, because other regulations could apply specifically to forests planted for paper purposes or specifically as energy plantations - now be understood as necessary - or indeed to a protected oak, beech forest. So I suggest that we continue our dialogue about it, open it up, light it up pro and versus, look at the arguments for it and against it, and as this has been done, then we make it a law, and from then on we can move this process forward. The other question is: thank you very much for calling for the sale by means of the notice, we will examine it before accepting the extent to which the clientele is affected here. Once again, the public possibility of registering land is one that is worth considering. It is important to see how the Hungarian legal order, Hungarian customary law, allows this to be done, but as an initiative, the launch of thoughtfulness is, I think, a very important thing. Property, it's a respectable property, it's nothing to be ashamed of, it's something to be brave about, you have to be proud of who has what you have, because you've worked for it, you have to be proud of it, so I can fully support it. Let's start it, it must also be a process that can not take place overnight, but after a transitional period. I think that clarity and purification are in our best interest. Thank you very much for your questions so far.
u2015-03-17-180	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar for two minutes.
u2015-03-17-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond to the closed gardens, because I understand the Government's intention to amend, and I also understand the concerns of my fellow Member Sallai, all the more so, because Jobbik was the first party to raise the problems of small garden owners here in Parliament last summer and also through press conferences. After all, it was very soon apparent what anomalies had been caused by the legislative changes for them, which could not otherwise have been the intention of the legislator, and these amendments, with which they were launched, also prove that he really did not have such an intention. I asked for the floor because in Slovenia, in the Mura region, there are very good examples of the closed garden system. It has survived in the parts of the Magyarlakta, otherwise in an excellent way, it is worth studying, I recommend to the government, to their attention, because before Trianon, this was the characteristic of the closed gardens in the whole country, which is now only in the Mura region, at least the most prominent and kept the largest weight there. It is worth looking at, because I believe that the opportunities mentioned by the Secretary of State and which should be supported, the different treatment of the various areas and the different attitudes of the state to these areas are excellent and they are very happy to set an example, to tell you about the cases that have happened there, as there have been several attempts on the part of the government in Slovenia to try to unify this system from above, and indeed, there would have been a great deal of damage if the story had not been in conflict with the resistance of the locals at that time. That's why I asked you to speak, and I think this solution would solve the problem. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-182	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény in a normal time frame. [[16.40]]
u2015-03-17-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As I mentioned in my speech as the lead speaker, the MSZP fraction will most likely remain, and this stay would not apply to the bill, but rather to the legislative technique, the method to which we would like to draw attention, that this is not healthy and that is not good. What made me mention, by the way, that we are abstaining is that there are some elements of the bill that, in our view, are also welcome, which are intended to solve the problems of practical life. In the debate on the previous bill, Mr Sallai, let's say in a funny way, he resented why, as an opposition representative, I highlighted the part of a bill, the element that is good. Because, Congressman, there are quite a few things that I think are relevant, and as you have just mentioned, you are one of the big fans of closed garden properties, if you can say so. For example, I would like to highlight from this bill, which we believe is right and good, that the register of protected and Natura areas and permanent pasture or permanent grassland and the change in data resulting from the removal of enclosed garden properties will be a free-of-charge area. We support, of course, every single proposal that can bring any ease to those living in Hungarian agriculture, this could be a financial relief. Or, for example, it can be pointed out in relation to the bill that it eliminates the double contribution of members of the mountain community also engaged in agricultural activities. We also regard this specifically as a saving thing. Or I would like to point out, for example, that, let us say, the bill facilitates the clarification of the circumstances in relation to the cancellation of the right to benefit between non-close relatives and ended on 1 May 2014 by the fact that, in the event of the customer's failure to react, the land office itself will contact the civil registry authority to check on the close relatives' relationship. So there are many parts, I believe, of this bill, which the Secretary of State rightly called the salad law, which are trying to solve the problems of practical life. But, as I said, and I said in my speech as the lead speaker, it is when, for example, they push the times of entry into force for a long time, when, I might call it that, at times, the mockery of the legislation is the way the bill comes to us, which is why our group currently has one, if you can say so, theoretical debate, to support or abstain, so, as I said, we will form our position later. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Cook applauds.]]
u2015-03-17-184	I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács in a normal time frame.
u2015-03-17-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to speak to him a little with the eyes of the laymen, and the courage of my contribution comes from the fact that, as a Karcagi resident, I have quite a lot of experience with closed gardens. On the one hand, he was a former lawyer, and on the other hand, as a Karcagi resident, you know from your head the parts of the city and the names that are actually part of the daily lives of those living there. Maybe there's no Karcag resident who doesn't have any interest in these closed gardens. Just listing the names of the gardens: Nagyvezkert, Kisvégkert, Kolduskert, Brick 1-2, Claygoskert, Komiskert, Kurtaker, Zugkert. Technically, I could list at least ten more of these gardens, virtually all around the city, surrounded by some kind of closed garden. So the problem of closed gardens, which the government wants to solve now in this bill, was a very living problem, and now it has been a long time since the locals have been on their shoulders, and not only has it been the shoulders of the residents, but it has been pushing the shoulders of the lawyer colleagues, but it has also caused a very serious problem for those working in the real estate register, the so-called land office, and they have met with vengeful customers more than once. In fact, the regulation so far has been so bad that it has prevented the sale and, in many cases, the cultivation of these gardens from being able to replace a farmer, it simply could not be used regularly and well. So the question arises why it has been so long to wait for this, when it has been before and after my good fellow Members, after I joined Parliament, it has been said several times that this problem calls for a solution and needs to be resolved. No one else could have known better how to solve this problem than Minister Sándor Fazekas, who himself does not own a garden land, by the way, I understand that you are either in the Brick Garden or perhaps in the Little Végkert, otherwise not far from the Karcag Beach Bath. So there may still be the danger that the Member of the LMP referred to here. So if it wasn't for anyone else, he would have known what kind of solution it would be. I'm guessing he wasn't too interested in selling or selling this, and about the difficulties he'd face, if he ever wanted to grow properly, or if he wanted to change a farmer's garden. It is therefore incomprehensible why this delay was and why this well-intentioned amendment could not be made, with which Jobbik otherwise besieged the Ministry, or brought it to Parliament several times, and there was even a press conference on this matter, why it could not be considered sooner. It would have been worth considering because it caused very serious symptoms, as I mentioned earlier. Thus, the turnover of the closed gardens has virtually stopped, and some have even resorted to certain tricks, in which, let's say, ownership remained with the person who had it, but with the various detours and contracts they tried to obtain rights, to use, to produce and to other forms of exploitation, which could not, of course, be entered separately in the real estate register. So, in practice, it can be said that he started a semi-grey farming among himself in closed gardens, which, by the way, are unworthy of the recreational, recreational or, where appropriate, hobbies-like cultivation of closed gardens, and he launched a completely unviable and inexplicable process in the closed gardens. Very serious evasive maneuvers had to be carried out, they said somewhere, I think that there were nosebleeds with the law on the ground, and there were nosebleeds. Well, that's what the residents, on the one hand, and the lawyers, on the other, and the property register, on the third. So it was absolutely necessary to settle this. Of course, the fact that this will be possible in some way free of charge will be a very useful thing. However, the government is also very important, and it must also articulate that the corrupt relationship of trust with these farmers living in closed gardens must be restored and communicated to them so that they can resolve their current situation, and that they are designed or planned, or otherwise necessary, or change of ownership, so that they can do so, because there is a very big problem in their heads at the moment, and there are even very big doubts, and even people are turning away from the closed gardens, precisely because the legislation behind them was unmanageable. Looking at one more thing from the lawyer's point of view, we agreed with the MSZP on this: the general justification that was in the law was scandalously short and short. Obviously, it's a demanding job. If the government feels the responsibility to produce understandable, understandable and applicable legislation, then at least it should be possible for the explanation to be well known by the simple person, and not just to repeat the text in the text that otherwise appears in the legal section, or just to plastically visualize a few binding words. The justification is to explain your reasons, explain in it what you want to do and what legal change there is. I'm suggesting this as a real improvement, so please take it. I believe that both Minister and you are prepared to practice this in the near future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-03-17-186	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yes, the author indicates that he would like to comment. Mr. Secretary of State István Nagy has the floor.
u2015-03-17-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Thank you very much for your comments, for all the comments you have made on this law. Let me start from behind, when the order is right, the comments of my fellow Member Luke. Let us start the closed garden, and then it applies to several Members, because perhaps one of the most serious and most public-interested elements of this amendment is the question of closed gardens. It was composed of three parts: one who had used it differently, one who had made it into a small tomato, and indeed a large part that was abandoned, which was contaminated with ragweed, which caused a lot of problems, which was a shame to the settlement, and sometimes caused a public safety situation that did not serve security. At the same time, it's 200,000 acres. So to touch this irresponsiblely, not to think about it... you're the one who would have been the biggest attack on how to play the 200,000 acres of land for foreigners at that time. Therefore, a solution had to be found that would be acceptable to everyone, provide sufficient guarantees and adequate security and solve the problems of many people with regard to the exploitation of closed gardens. [[16.50]] I think I can safely say that we have found a way to resolve the issue of closed garden owners and the needs of those living there. And at that time I had not even spoken - which had to be settled in the first round - about the fate of the municipal-owned closed gardens, which the government had arranged a few months earlier. With regard to the general justification, I can say to the Member: I very much hope that the detail of the exposé has helped us to understand the law and all the tasks that we have been able to fill it with. I apologize for the brief explanation. I would also like to thank Congressman Sallai R. and Member of Hungary for the constructiveity, the encouragement they have in relation to the law that they can add few objections, but more support, to this law. I hope that by the time we have completed a detailed debate on the law, we will be able to remove all doubts in my fellow Members' points, and together we will be able to say that this law is worthy of adoption and that we will be able to press the yes button together. And another comment on the possibility of legislation. I have to say to you, the one who actually makes a mistake is the one who perceives that a changed response to a changed situation needs to be given, and that fails to do so. This law precisely serves to adapt the laws that are necessary in a changed life situation to a changed practical situation. And when the deadline has to be pushed, it must also be said quite frankly, my fellow Members, that is because it is necessary to provide a technical background. The intention is done, the body is powerless - I might as well say poetically. But the thing is, we need to create the conditions under which we can implement this fairly and reliably. We're signaling this direction. We indicate where we want to go, and I very much hope that with this law we can also create clearer and more orderly relations on the earth issue in Hungary as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-17-188	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2007 CXXIX on the protection of agricultural land. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/3753. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. István Nagy, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture.
u2015-03-17-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. Law contains a system of rights, duties and duties related to the protection of land, the protection of soil and the planting of fruit plantations. The rational preservation of good quality agricultural land, the economic interest of saving agricultural land management, which is particularly important for us to emphasise in 2015, which is the international year of soils. The slogan of the International Year of Soils: Healthy soils for a healthy life. The international year aims to draw the attention of decision-makers and civil society to the importance of sustainable soil use, to raise awareness of the role of soils in creating food security and adapting to climate change. As agriculture is an important pillar of our national economy, the government also prioritises the issue of the conservation and sustainable use of the soil. The system of soil protection is extremely complex. Its overall objective is to ensure that good quality agricultural land is available for agricultural production as much as possible, to maintain the production capacity and quantity of agricultural land and to ensure that the requirements for this purpose are sufficiently effective for the authorities. The amendment of the Land Protection Act, our proposal presented in the context of this Expoze, is divided into four parts. In particular: settlement of the relationship between the pond and the protection of land; harmonisation of the rules on the protection of land and expropriation; clarification of the administrative service fee for the ground certification procedure; and clarification of the legal rules of the fruit plantation register. The current law on the protection of agricultural land defines, for certain aspects and for the implementation of sectoral interests, the cases which it does not consider as non-use of agricultural land for other purposes or, in the old use of the word, extraction from cultivation, although they actually fulfil the legal criterion for other uses. For example, agricultural landscaping. This dogmatical approach would be changed by considering the cases mentioned in the regulation to be used for a different purpose in the same way as the real situation, but by stating that there is no obligation to carry out a land-protection authorisation procedure in these cases. The establishment of a pond is also included in cases which are exempt from authorisation. This is due to the fact that, since 1 November 2013, the pond has not been considered as agricultural land for the purposes of the Land Protection Act or under land management regulations. At the same time, according to the land register rules, the pond remains a useful farming branch, so its situation must be corrected in relation to other agricultural land and in the context of land protection provisions. Since fish farming is also an agricultural activity, it is therefore appropriate to use it for the purpose of setting up land in the absence of land conservation procedures. Therefore, it is proposed that the establishment of a fish pond would only be considered a change in cultivation. In general, a number of requests from society to the wallet and the life situations outlined therein raised the need for more effective coordination of land use and expropriation rules, thus complementing land protection legislation. The Land Protection Act is currently very narrow in terms of the use of land for expropriation purposes, even though a permit for other uses is a prerequisite for land expropriation. For example, there are no provisions in the law on cases where an application for expropriation for the authorisation of exploitation for other purposes, as well as an individual application for authorisation for other purposes, was submitted for the purpose of achieving the general interest objective of expropriation in the same part of the land. Thus, by amending the law in this way, the relationship between the rules on the protection of agricultural land and expropriation is settled. The proposal introduces specific rules in the law both in the field of land-protection licensing procedures and in other non-licensed exploitation cases in the event of an application for expropriation in the same area of the land concerned. The assessment of an application for expropriation shall take precedence over an individual application, taking into account that the request for expropriation is based on an intention to achieve a public interest objective. The proposal is also differentiated by the fact that it is an ongoing or closed protection procedure for an individual application. The draft clarifies the way in which the administrative service fee is calculated in the ground-rating process in order to facilitate clarity and to ensure uniform application of the law. Thus, after the area actually affected by the ground-rating process and not on the basis of the whole area of the land section, the fee should be established, which is clearly a positive development for customers. The amount of fees payable is unchanged, but the ceiling is set as a new element and free of charge cases are defined. In order to ensure that more areas excluded from cultivation can be recycled, the proposal would make the land-rating process of the area reclaimed at significant costs free of charge, as well as the case where an area of land located in the area not listed in the real estate register is not recycled as a result of land-growing land under agricultural management, but, for example, as a result of land-building process. The government would also like to extend the free-of-charge assets to certain crop changes, so in the case of plantation replantation, provided that it takes place within a maximum of three years, since it is not intended to impose additional burdens on the farmer within such a short period of time as an additional cost of resettlement. [[17.00]] There would also be a free-of-charge case with further changes in cultivation from forest to wooded area, or a change from land to forest or wooded area. Finally, the proposal amends the provisions relating to the fruit plantation. The cadastral procedure in the fruit plant may partly mean the cadastralisation of the plot and the modification of the cadastral classification. The assessment of the application shall examine the ecological suitability of the land at least for the fruit species indicated in the application and with similar ecological needs. The permit to plant a fruit plant may be requested only in the case of a cadastral classification in the fruit plant. Under the rules in force, the planting of fruit plants must be subject to a permit of more than 3,000 square metres in the case of fruit plantations and over 1000 square metres in the case of berry fruit plantations. In line with the size of the area limit for the use of area payments and reducing the burden on farmers on small land, the proposal also increases the authorisation limit to 3,000 square metres in the case of berries. In line with the original legislative intention, it is clarified that only fruit plantations producing goods are subject to the obligation to obtain an planting permit, taking into account that the authorisation procedure is not justified for other plantation types, for example. The proposal increases the period of validity of the planting permit from two years to three years, as the submission and evaluation of a proposal for a grant that may be used for planting and the purchase of reproductive material may cover a period of more than two years. In order to reduce the burden on the plantation user, the plantation user shall notify the plantation to the planting authority, Nebih, and the planting authority shall forward the notification to the crop authority. The crop authority shall verify the crop rotation on the spot and shall inform the planting authority of the result thereof. The content of the fruit plantation register is clarified, leaving data that are unnecessary for the installation authorisation procedure or which are constantly changing and cannot be followed in the cadastral. In order to clarify the content of the cadastral, the proposal also requires the support body for agriculture and rural development, MVH, to provide the installation authority by 31 July 2015 with specific identification data for area aid applications submitted in 2014. The reason for reporting between MVH and Nébih is that, in the case of aided plantations, the Authority can verify the fulfilment of the conditions of the aid, the implementation of the business plan, the state of culture, the existence of the investments undertaken and the existence of improvements. In the event of failure to do so, you should have the opportunity to sanction it. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the proposal therefore contains substantive clarification provisions and fills the regulatory gaps in this area. Since the protection of land and agricultural land is one of the cornerstones of our national strategy, this fact requires that the relevant legislation be as precise as possible and ensure proper and efficient management of the land. I hope that you will agree with the content of the broad-based draft. I therefore call on this House to discuss the bill on the basis of the reasons given, and then to adopt it afterwards. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-17-190	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the keynote speakers will be held in the first round. I therefore give the floor to Balázs Győrffy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-17-191	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land in force. Law 9. § 2 states that the cases specified therein are not regarded as uses for other purposes, although they all exhaust the exploitation of land for other purposes. This provision was obviously aimed at avoiding the conduct of the protection procedure, but with an incorrect codification solution. This is to be addressed by T/3753. Legislative proposal No 4 on four main issues. On the one hand, it is clearly defined in which cases there is no need to carry out a protection procedure in the case of other uses of land. Accordingly, it is not necessary to authorise the real estate authority to establish roads for the approach to new land areas resulting from the elimination of undivided common-owned plots of land, in the case of land lands for agricultural purposes, in the case of forest planting, in the case of the establishment of surveying, mapping and ponds. The latter appears as a new element compared to the previous regulation. The establishment of fish ponds is thus in practice classified as a shift in cultivation. Secondly, the proposal also aims to regulate the relationship between land protection and expropriation legislation. Thirdly, the way in which the administrative service fee for the earth quality process is calculated is clarified in order to facilitate clarity and to ensure uniform application of the law. Different rules on fees are also defined, including cases of non-payment of charges and exemptions. The free cases are also extended to certain crop changes. Thus, for example, the planting of the plantation, provided that it takes place within a maximum of three years, since it is not intended to impose additional burdens on the farmer within such a short period of time as an additional cost of resettlement. Fourthly, the further important purpose of the amendment is to clarify the legal rules of the fruit plantation register. The proposal increases the authorisation limit for berry fruit planting from one thousand to three thousand square metres, corresponding to the area limit for the use of area payments and reducing the burden on farmers on small land. It is also clarified that the obligation to obtain a planting permit applies only to fruit plants producing goods. The proposal clarifies the content of the fruit plantation register, deleting points that are unnecessary for the installation authorisation procedure, and the HCSO receives the data of the aid applications from the MVH in an individual way which serves the accuracy of the cadastral. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of T/3753. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-17-192	I now give the floor to Zoltán Gőgös, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-03-17-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this bill will generate a completely different debate, if at all, than the previous one. I would like to point out that there are a lot of precise and technical provisions in it. After a lot of administrative and other burdens have been reduced, I think this is a necessary and good bill. I think this should not be particularly concerned, the MSZP will support the adoption of this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-17-194	I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-03-17-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think we are talking about vital issues in the debate on this draft law, because it is vital to protect agricultural land, which is for many a living, a daily meal. For farmers, agricultural land is life itself. Farmers give us the opportunity to buy a good quality Hungarian product, so it is important for all of us to have rules on agricultural land in order. This is also in the interests of the national economy, because if it is worth working as a farmer in Hungary, because we create such a legal background, the incomes of entrepreneurs will also increase. In Hungary, there is no person who is not affected at some level by land regulation. As the Secretary of State said, the lead speaker of Fidesz mentioned that this bill, which lies before us, does indeed cover four important issues. I do not wish to discuss these issues, as Mr Secretary of State has also mentioned, my colleague Győrffy mentioned these four points. [[17.10]] I think it is outstanding that, indeed, as Mr Secretary of State has said, life sometimes rewrites things and it is necessary to bring these changes through the law. In this, I am very proud that the government, the FM, has perceived and perceived this, and has brought before this House a bill that life has actually brought before us. On behalf of the KDNP, I ask my fellow Members, as the KDNP faction also supports this bill in order to support the adoption of the law by their votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-196	I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-03-17-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. As we proceed with these agendas, the more it seems that we need to make a positive statement on the government's proposal, so in any case compared to the two before. I can say in advance that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will be able to support this proposal, since both the facilitations related to the official authorisation procedure and the other reasons that have been listed are important and we also consider it to be beneficial. It should be noted that neither fruity nor berries nor trees nor other plantations will be more in Hungary because this amendment will pass, and no more fisher will exist, and this will not be a profitable business because this legislation will be adopted. So it would be good if we talked about the conditions, the market conditions that have left Hungary stuck in the area of these sectors at the level where we are today. However, it would be very helpful, because these are the areas that could create many jobs in rural areas, and in the areas where this would most be needed, because we know that there is no need to describe in such a circle how much more jobs can be created by an orchard, a fisher, than by a company engaged in field cultivation of similar size. So we have to talk about these problems - although we are still on the agenda today, which also affects them - and this draft really contains important progress, which is why we will support it, but it is really not about the point. And I think it's a bit comical to bring consistency with the ministerial regulation on area payments here as an argument. Then I would like to know this ministerial decree, and I believe that I am not alone. It is a little strange that we want to tailor the legislation to something that I have not yet learned, but if it has already been born, I look forward to it being corrected by the Secretary of State, and then I will be happy to pass it on to those who ask us this every day. One more small question is whether or not the licensing authority here in the production, planting or planting of fruit will have powers or duties in the future, because I do not see this clearly. I wanted to add these, and then I look forward to the fact that Mr Secretary of State might respond to them. As I said, Jobbik supports it, but it would be good if we could talk about the underlying things, about when this change of legislation will make sense in practice, when mass orchards and fish ponds will exist across the country to create real sustainable, quality jobs in the countryside. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-198	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-03-17-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Under the Rules of the House, the general debate does not necessarily have to go hand in hand with the specific amendments to the legislative sections, so that, if the Secretary of State permits, I would like to draw attention to one or two strategic issues. I would like to say in advance that I am relatively new here, but from the previous four-year experience, LMP experts have already looked at whether there is a mine or no mine in it. There is no mine in this legislation either, so a weak support or a stronger stay can happen here without further ado, so there is nothing special about it that raises professional concerns about us. However, one or two strategic issues could be addressed in this draft legislation, which I would like to point out to the Secretary of State. One part of this is the fate of the Hungarian grasslands. The changes from the cultivation sector and the rules on the cultivation sector are now being affected, and as a man from the lowland, from the people of the wilderness, it has always been natural for me that it is grazing livestock that can be achieved with high employment and high added value in traditional employment, and one of the best landscape management activities that can be achieved by maintaining natural values. Practically, if we look back at the change in the proportion of grasslands in Hungary's agricultural land, we need to establish a very sad trend. If we look at 4.3 million hectares of agricultural land in Hungary, 4.3 million about fields, 81 thousand hectares of gardens, 93 thousand hectares of orchards, 82 thousand hectares of grapes and 759 thousand hectares of grassland, this 759 thousand hectares would not look small at first. However, it is very few, and the reason for that is that this is what has been the most scarce since the change of regime. In 1999, a million 147 thousand hectares were registered by the Statistical Office; if we look at them numerically, the share of grasslands fell to 400 thousand hectares, this is something desperately high. Now we have a way to stop this process. This is important, obviously I have an opinion on how serious Fidesz is about its own national rural strategy, but the landscape management objectives set out in it are to use the landscapes for what they are, what they are most suitable for, not to want to bring any land under the 10 golden crowns into a hacking and ploughing crop, now would be the opportunity to incorporate the legislation in this legislative proposal, and unfortunately, there are no safeguards in it. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that these regulations could also provide a background for such ones. The other part, which I wanted to discuss, but here I may have been disproved in the first two minutes, Mr. Secretary of State, was a bit of a feeling, as if the government promises they made back in 2010 and then did not start with funny omissions, and then they started in a county... and now in January they stood up again for the elimination of the undivided commons, several state ministers from the FM, with all kinds of great Indian oaths, so that now they really get started and really do it. They started right away at Karcag, which I think my fellow Member from Karcag is happy to see, and we hope that they will get to other places, but I had the impression that it would make a bed for it, and that it would create a system of expropriation, as well as a background of cultivation. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that, at the moment, such activities have begun to do more damage in some places than before. After the compensation schemes, when it was established, say, a 100-hectare, 120-hectare undivided common property in grassland, and now they start with either their own initiative or the preferential, which could be announced two years ago, the implementation of surveying, surveying, now what happens is that, on the basis of the legal background, if they experience that the area may have different cultivation areas, let's say, there is an acacia on the part of the area or a dirt road formed, then they divide these properties according to the cultivation branch. And now the reference to this is that the legal obligations give rise to the possibility that separate areas of cultivation should be distinguished. I can now give a number of concrete examples to the Secretary of State where there was an undivided joint, five claimants, they started measuring, and three new, undivided commons after weighing out the five claimants. And in this, there is an undivided common, where you can imagine that, say, 300 owners were created on 3400 square meters, so that this makes the land register so difficult that they can display the shares on the property page, but in the golden crown the company number cannot be written out, because it is so large. This is an element of the current practice. I have already drawn your attention to this, and I told him to look at it, so I can show you how these came about, and it is also an opportunity that would give him the opportunity to do so. I wanted to ask you one last thing as an enthusiastic Hungarian fish consumer, and a lot of fish farmers, I went to the fish ponds a long time ago.In the early '90s, I was even a fisherman before the military, in the interest of the union to take me to heaven - with fishermen; so the point is whether the land name of the areas in the fisheries sector does not affect the possibility of applying for area aid. For a very long time there was a problem in Hungary's lake farms that they could not obtain area payments in any form, and then they could do so with a change in the cultivation sector, so that they could receive area payments. In the campaign, the Minister and the Minister have also said in several places that this opportunity will be opened up. [[17.20]] Now, by not being named in this field of cultivation, are you not putting that at risk? This is a specific question, because it will obviously mean a lot to farmers. However, the fact that I have made these points does not, in my opinion, contain any problems. It contains a number of elements that can help to protect the soil, but it would be very good to try to keep that part or the branches of cultivation, or to move in a positive direction, even better if it could be incorporated. We will look at it, if we can put in an amendment where it can be ensured, then we will live with it. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-200	We have reached the end of the speaker speeches, and I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény in a normal time frame.
u2015-03-17-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As our lead speaker said, the MSZP fraction will support this bill, since it is precise, technical changes or administrative burden reductions that really characterize the bill. As I have said, we support any solution that can make it easier for people living in agriculture, agricultural operators. Several people have highlighted it here, Mr. Secretary of State in the Expoze, but the lead speakers are also the two, let's say, important changes that we believe give the backbone, the essence of this bill, one was the question of the fisher, and the other was the question of these certain berry fries. This amendment re-regulates the land-protection authorisation procedure, following the existing solution, moreover, this regulation is enriched with a new case, the range of cases which are not covered by the land-protection procedure is extended by the establishment of the pond, as the pond is no longer considered land. It is therefore appropriate to use it for the purpose of establishing agricultural land without carrying out the conservation procedure, as mentioned by our fellow Member Győrffy, so that this case will practically correspond to the change in the cultivation sector. Article 59 of the Land Protection Act. According to Article 4 of the Treaty, the planting of fruit plants must currently be authorised by the planting authority for more than 3,000 square metres in the case of fruit trees, or 1000 square metres in the case of berry fruit plantations, and, as the State Secretary mentioned in his expozee, also for berries to 3 thousand square metres, let us say that the draft legislation raises this certain limit. We welcome the fact that we believe that an eligible legislative step, as well as an increase in the period of validity of the planting permit from two years to three years, may cover a period of more than two years, the submission and assessment of the application necessary for the support that may be available for planting, as well as the purchase of propagating material under the current regulation. So these technical amendments, we think, are absolutely welcome. Of course, as our lead speaker has already said, we will also support this bill. These are the legislative proposals that I think can make easier, better, with a consensus, the laws which affect those involved in agriculture and which fall within the remit of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-202	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar in a normal time frame.
u2015-03-17-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief, just inspired by this conversation along the way. Speaking of the protection of agricultural land, quite brutal figures have come to light on how much our country's production area has decreased in the last 25 years, let's say, and it would really be worth emphasising that greenfield investments should be turned into grey and brownfield investments as much as possible. I do not want to say business names here, but there have been several cases in recent years that could have been resolved in a way that would not have been done as a greenfield investment. Here we have come to the point where, in the debate of the Land Traffic Act, we have repeatedly asked the government why it did not place sufficient emphasis on the protection of agricultural land in that legislation, and that is why it would have been good, among other things, to bring the national rural strategy to the House, because, in contrast to the Land Traffic Law and other government proposals, the protection of agricultural land had a very fair and adequate role in it; I just wanted to add this debate as a parentheses note. If it is to protect the soil, then it would also be worth talking about how dramatically the proportion of living microorganisms in a given amount of agricultural land has decreased in the last 20 years, and how this can be related to the fact that, as long as, say, in our childhood, if we ate a normal portion of vegetables or fruit, we certainly covered most of our mineral and vitamin needs. Today, we should consume about ten times that in order to achieve this, so the role of food supplements and vitamins is important and will appear even if someone brings in sufficient or sufficient quantities of vegetables and fruit every day, and this is indeed related to the protection of the soil. We could also talk about the issue of erosion in this debate, about the fact that the state and the administrative authorities who have the opportunity to do so could really define in certain areas the technology by which the land can be cultivated, even if it is privately owned. There are, by the way, international examples of this, which are not part of everyday life at all, and here, obviously, it has to come from the cultivation sector, how it ensures that erosion in that particular area is as minimal as possible, or it might even be able to reverse the process. So it would have been good if we had already seen the law on the protection of agricultural land, then we would have clarified and pushed these questions. But if nothing else, then perhaps I have achieved so much in this speech that it may be possible to deal with these issues in a next such amendment, because I believe that some of them are already affecting the generations that are now living, and raise very serious problems, but the most serious issues of the near future are definitely at both global and domestic level. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-03-17-204	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, State Secretary.
u2015-03-17-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank you very much, thank you very much for the fact that, almost without exception, each group has given its support to this law, and this shows that we have discussed a very important issue here this afternoon. Let me begin with the suggestions made by my fellow Members and, in touch with their questions, let me find some answers. I would like to say to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek that the fate of Hungary's grasslands is almost halved. I have to say that there was obviously a reason for this, too, that a climate change, drought, has been more characteristic of Hungary over the past decade or two, and, of course, the yield of many of our fields has been so reduced that it has been used as a field instead. I think that we have reached the origo, and from here on out, I'm sure it should not be a reduction, but an increase in that. What do I make that assumption for? The growing value of breeding animals in Hungary must increase the number of areas that will support many animals - cattle and sheep - and then there is another solution for what my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar raised, because it is a very serious question, the link between the nutrient content of the soils. The fact that we want to solve everything with fertilizer will fall on our heads one day. So it is impossible, organic material supply must be introduced into the soil by proper farming, by suitable means of soil cultivation, because it is only possible to return it. And while we are at it, I have to say that we didn't talk about it, but saying, unspoken in each speech, it was finally there that the role of agro-higher education was important to train and put into practice professionals who are important not to regulate the solution of erosion by law, but, if the specialist is there, he knows very well how to pay attention to the soil cover, what means or methods to be used to naturally manage properly in our sandy areas. So competence is also an infinitely important issue. Here, landscape management, which my fellow Member Sallai R. Benedict has brought, I must say that the key to everything is livestock, that we can put the cattle back in the wilderness, we can bring back the way of life, we can bring back the quality that we can bring back with grazing livestock, cheese, milk, sour cream and curd culture, and with that excellent quality of meat, because such livestock can support a lot of people. [[17 .30]] The processing of this product provides a livelihood for many people, and for us urban people access to excellent food, which is also not a negligible thing. Undivided joint liquidation. If the law affects it - you read it well, Congressman, you can read between the lines - there is a factor in it that helps to resolve this. And I thank you for your suggestion of bad practice, because if I go back to the Ministry, I'll bring that up, and I'll be sure to examine it. If there is such an abnormal situation, then this must be eliminated as quickly as possible, because the Ministry's aim is to do so, because again this year we have secured HUF 3.5 billion in the budget to eliminate the undivided one. By 2018, there should not be any area in Hungary that is undivided in common. There is no way to prevent land traffic, no way to stop the normal cultivation of the soil, no way to prevent farming by having disorderly ownership. This helps to combat pocket contracts, helping us to see a lot of things clearly. That's why there's money for this, and that's why we're going to have to completely liquidate this by 2018. To my fellow Hungarian Member, let me say that the burden of the plantation user is reduced by the fact that the plantation user announces the plantation to the planting authority, that is, the Nebih, and Nébih will continue to report to the plantation authority that there is a plantation and that it will be checked and a proper record of how the aid has been used and how it will be maintained in the coming period. In conclusion, my fellow Members, thank you very much for your comments and thank you very much for your support for this law. I think that a unanimous adoption of this law, accompanied by proposals to amend it in detail, can be foreseen. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-206	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission was made in T/3755. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bitay Márton Örs, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-17-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, 995/2010 determining the obligation of operators to place timber and timber products on the market. Regulation No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council requires verification of the system of proof of origin for timber entering the Union's internal market in order to effectively reduce illegal logging. About 5 000 domestic undertakings engaged in woodworking activities and some forest farmers may be involved in the implementation of the EU Regulation. EU legislation entered into force on 3 March 2013, with a transposition of which our country is lagging behind from the EU Member States. The European Commission has launched a pilot procedure against our country for failing to fulfil its obligations. Most Member States also have an economic interest in ensuring that our country meets its obligations as soon as possible, because, in the period of non-compliance, they believe that domestic suppliers of wood will receive undue market benefits and seek to draw a number of other legal conclusions from this. The Regulation imposes on operators who place timber and timber products on the market the obligation to verify the legal origin of timber and timber before it is placed on the European Union's internal market for the first time. Union legislation also provides that compliance with this obligation of operators is to be verified by a national authority. As a result of this government consultation, the forestry authority will be in our country, so that the forest law will have to establish a system of means and the national forest authority will have to be strengthened to implement this. Effective surveillance activities should be carried out in the case of the whole timber chain from firewood to furniture products, which should be carried out with other authorities in particular in cooperation with the NAV. In order to reduce the entrepreneurship burden, it is necessary to ensure that the system of proof of origin for wood is consistent with the data requirements already carried out in the EKAER Regulation and to the forestry authority. According to expert estimates, the amount of illegal logging in Hungary is around 300,000 cubic metres per year, which amounts to approximately HUF 3 billion. Moreover, it is very significant that timber and timber products imported illegally from neighbouring countries are imported. Together, they put honest forest farmers and timber traders at a disadvantage, in addition to forest owners, as well as directly harming consumers. In the case of illegal logging and timber trade, which has not been properly controlled so far, it is typically poor quality and lower than expected sales of timber that misleads consumers by creating a cheaper price. The general turnover tax deficit resulting from illegal logging is approximately HUF 1 billion per year, and the unpaid contributions after illegal work cause a further budget deficit of HUF 300-400 million per year. The whitening of the entire timber chain could lead to an even greater loss of public tax revenue. To this end, the provisions of the draft law provide for an extension of its personal scope, system of definitions, detailed rules on the transfer of data between applicable authorities, sanctions, considerations of discretion to ensure the viability of the application, as well as the authorisation provisions allowing for further enforcement arrangements. In addition, the draft includes an additional provision under which the operation of certain public welfare and tourism investments in public forests may be transferred for a maximum period of five years to persons other than public forest holdings. By doing so, we want to make a legislative contribution to the quality of public welfare services in public forests. Dear Parliament, The T/3755. The proposed legislation therefore seeks to increase the safety of rural farming by means of the planned measures and to reduce the supply of timber that circumvents tax legislation imported from other EU Member States. It also serves indirectly the government's intention to reduce the costs as it ensures the supply of sufficient quantities and quality of firewood to the general public by monitoring the commercial system. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill on the grounds stated and then adopt it afterwards. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-208	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, speeches by the lead speaker will take place. I therefore give the floor to Béla Dankó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-17-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. / In the grass, in the flower and in the stone, / O there is no such poor substance on the earth, / which, in one way or another, would not benefit you. / But there is no good in which there is no danger, / if you think you're abusing me like an idiot! Shakespeare's words are still relevant today, and I believe that today, in the era of global warming and mass illegal deforestation, they are of particular importance. [[17.40]] It is now a cliché that forests are the lungs of our Earth, which must be protected by all possible means. However, forests not only delight, but also derive very diverse environmental, economic and social benefits, including wood-based and other non-wood forest products, as well as significant environmental services for mankind, such as the maintenance of biodiversity and the functions of the ecological system and the protection of the climate. The forest law was amended several times in the previous cycle and already this year by the Parliament. The reason for these changes was linked to tourist destinations, for example, so that the forests could be more free and relaxed to ride and ride. The amendment before us is somewhat different in nature and there is a legal harmonisation because there is a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of forests 995/2010. A number which must also comply with domestic legislation, and, of course, if the law has to be opened, some new provisions, which are currently necessary, will also be passed through the legislative amendment proposal. Let me first explain to you the backgrounds, the goals and ideas that guide the European Union and, of course, us, when we are thinking about protecting our environment, including trees, forests, and then I will come to the main provisions of the bill. The European Commission presented its proposal in October 2008, which was adopted by the European Parliament and the Member States exactly two years later, in October 2010. It shall apply from March 2013. By increasing demand for timber and timber products worldwide, while in many timber producing countries the forestry sector is characterised by institutional and management deficiencies, illegal logging and related trade have become increasingly worrying issues. Illegal logging has serious economic, environmental and social consequences for the world's most important preserved forests and their dependent communities. Many of its disadvantages include loss of income, futile efforts by legally operating market players, linked to deforestation, biodiversity loss, greenhouse gas emissions, and the fact that there is a struggle for land and resources, and that the indigenous population loses self-determination. Illegal logging is a general problem of great international importance. It represents a major threat to forests as it contributes to the process of deforestation and forest degradation, which accounts for around 20% of global CO2 emissions and also threatens biodiversity and hinders sustainable forest management and forest development, including the economic viability of operators acting in accordance with applicable legislation. The EU represents an important export market for countries with the most serious irregularities and administrative and enforcement deficiencies in the forestry sector. By allowing the release of wood from potentially illegal sources and products from it to the EU market, EU countries are, in essence, unwittingly contributing to the survival of illegal logging practices. In order to address this problem, in 2003 the EU developed an Action Plan on Enforcement, Governance and Trade in Forestry, which was implemented in practice by a regulation adopted two years later. This provides for a number of measures to push out illegally harvested timber markets in order to improve legal timber supply and increase demand for timber products from responsible management. The two main elements of the Action Plan are the EU regulation on wood and timber products and the voluntary partnership agreements on trade agreements with timber exporting countries to prevent the entry into the EU market of timber from illegal sources. You can see, therefore, how global this problem is that we have to face, so it is very justified to act at EU level, which will also be served by this law. Now, let me get to the provisions of the bill. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, N2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3 § extends the scope of the forest law to timber trade chains in accordance with the above-mentioned regulation and clarifies the concept of the law in accordance with the text of the regulation. Article 3 § allows the National Land Fund Management Organisation to temporarily transfer certain forest areas to third parties for purposes other than forest management purposes for a maximum period of five years. In Hungarian, this means that if you want to shoot a film, you might want to run an adventure park in the given area, you can do so in a more regulated way than you do at present. However, before a person is alarmed by the fact that the state is selling out the forest areas or other doggies in the background, I would like to point out that the transfer of the area should not extend to the exercise of the forest profits, nor should it affect the land use right of the trustee. Article 4 § 2 contains rules on transfers between the real estate and the forestry authority. These data shall be provided free of charge for the performance of basic tasks and of tasks related to the implementation of the EU's common agricultural policy. The proposal also provides that the forestry authority should have access to the personal data and address register and the tax authority's data. The proposal states that the certificate of origin is not required for the issue of a supplier's ticket, but in order to reduce illegal logging, the law also lays down more precise rules for the certification of timber placed on the market from a territory not covered by its territorial scope. Accordingly, in order to implement EU Regulation No 995/2010, individuals and entities subject to this Regulation which place timber and timber on the internal market or trade it on the internal market should be obliged to verify the origin of the timber. The proposal follows the principle that irregularities should be severely sanctioned, but it is important that penalties and fines are smelled alive. Therefore, the relevant rules have been laid down, taking into account the principle of proportionality, by providing appropriate discretion. The rest of the proposal contains technical provisions. Dear House, The bill is a small but important step in ensuring that our forests are safer, so I ask that, if you agree with the protection of the environment and forests and with the possibility of using them within a regulated framework, you support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-210	I now give the floor to Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-03-17-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, If you'll allow me, I would like to make a relatively shorter speaker speaking compared to my fellow Member Dankó. I would like to make it clear that, since we are an EU, let us say that we have to comply with our obligation to amend the Forest Protection Act, the MSZP fraction will, of course, support this bill. As the Secretary of State mentioned in his expo, it was the 995/2010 EU regulation that affected the forestry sector and the administration to a large extent. This Regulation requires the development of a system of proof of origin for timber entering the Union's internal market, otherwise in order to effectively reduce illegal logging. If I may, I would like to highlight two things from this bill, which will bring about substantial changes, as the bill before us introduces the regulation of the certificate of origin for wood placed on the market from an area outside the territorial scope of the law and makes it compulsory to certify the origin of wood covered by the regulation for individuals and economic operators who place timber and timber on the internal market or trade it. I think that this will be a very important change for economic operators engaged in trade in timber and logging materials and the placing on the market of processed materials, which, of course, will also place a certain administrative burden on them, but we believe that the legal objective is certainly welcome, and of course, as I have said, because it is a European Union regulation which, let us say, obliges Hungary to do so, so, of course, as I have already said, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[17.50]]
u2015-03-17-212	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-03-17-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As the lead speakers and the secretary of state have already said before us, the draft law before us transforms our forest law in line with the 2010 EU decision, giving a prominent role to the regulation on the timber trade chain and the regulation on illegal logging. The Regulation imposes on operators who place timber and timber products on the market the obligation to verify the legal origin of timber and timber before it is placed on the internal market in the Union. This task was carried out by a public authority, such as in several countries or in many EU countries, a public authority, a central authority, which will be carried out by the forestry authority here. Then I think it is important to highlight in the draft law that new conceptual definitions have also been published, such as illegal logging, wood choice or timber trading chain, and the chain will be monitored by the forestry authority. Certified documents are required for this tree to start travelling, whether within a country or within the Union. In the absence of certified documents, the authority assumes that the timber comes from illegal extraction. The shocking thing, mentioned by the Secretary of State, is that some 300,000 cubic metres of wood is being illegally marketed today, which is a serious value, not to mention the vandal destruction of the forest in many cases, and that this wood, whether firewood or other species of wood, is being used for trade or for households. I think that the introduction of this EU system will bring significant domestic benefits, since previous bad practice has also put decent forest farmers and timber traders at a disadvantage in addition to forest owners. Remember, we read in the newspaper daily that people selling firewood appear in villages and cities, and they are trying to sell illegally harvested timber at a rate that is much cheaper than you can buy in official trade. Complete forests are also disappearing in this system, unfortunately, as a result of illegal logging. The amendment also includes a number of provisions that will simplify forest operators compared to the rules that have been put in place so far. For example, the extractor does not need to keep with him the document issued by the forest manager who is entitled to carry out the work and the certificate will not require the qualified professional staff status for the issue of the transport ticket. The amendment, as has been mentioned before, provides for the possibility for forest directorates to transfer 100% state-owned forest areas for a maximum period of five years to uses other than those for forestry purposes which do not require the area to be withdrawn from production and do not cover forest profits. My fellow Members have said that the forest is indeed very important, if we manage it well, it has a good impact on the national economy, the forest creates jobs, it has tourist value, and we must protect it, because we have borrowed these things from our grandchildren. The KDNP fraction supports the adoption of the bill and I call on my fellow Members to support its adoption with their votes. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-214	I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-03-17-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We also welcome this proposal. In recent decades, the greatest progress in the protection of timber, the protection of timber and the protection of timber wealth has not been expected from governments, but in recent years we have learned that the bear has re-established in the Northern Middle Mountains, and this has reduced the number of wall-ops statistically measurablely. So I'm glad the government joined the bear and is now trying to help this phenomenon. On 22 January, I submitted a written question to the professional wallet with the title "Why more enterprises in the field of wood farming than last year will cease to exist." By the way, I took information from the FATA journal, which you did not deny, so according to a recent statement, 584 companies operating in the field of wood management were launched in 2014 against liquidation or forced cancellation. In the first place, 541 companies were involved, while 43 were involved, and three were in bankruptcy. Based on the data, this affects nearly a thousand workers who have to deal with the current job change problems. The annual turnover of the companies was HUF 16.2 billion, so it is obvious that the state itself is losing significant revenues after the companies have ceased to exist. I have just quoted this, and I have dealt with a number of written issues in this area, that we are seriously behind, and there are serious, serious errors and misdemeanors on the part of the government, that this area has been neglected so far and that there have been no substantive changes. It has also been said from the mouths of the speakers before me, and we also find it a serious problem for those door-to-door criminals who want to get rich selling firewood by cheating the unfortunate, typically rural people, often with small pensioners, who simply cannot make sure that the quantity and quality of the tree offered to them is at all what the sellers promise. However, in this draft legislation, I do not see the persuasive force that has been said here by the people before me to solve this problem. It was said from Mr. Secretary of State that the state will lose about HUF 1 billion in VAT alone in connection with these abuses. This is also about the tree coming from abroad, as well as the domestic firewood of unknown origin, as well as 300-400 million forints of employee contributions and other losses to the state. I think, in addition to making such legislation, Mr Secretary of State has practically referred to what the solution could be, and here we can move on to the question of VAT. While 27 percent of the products are hit by the highest VAT in Europe, it is not surprising that they are trying to hustle and abuse VAT in all areas. In the case of firewood too - I think - VAT could be significantly reduced and this problem would also be reduced. Overall, the budget may not be at a disadvantage, since this economy would also become significantly white. It does not belong closely to the law, but I want to mention the information that should be provided to citizens using firewood, such as the Chamber or some body close to the government, as many have returned to the wood burning due to the gas price explosion, which I do not think is a problem from an environmental point of view and from the perspective of the country's energy independence, and as we see the proportion of forested areas, this is not a problem in Hungary yet. So this is not my problem; rather, the fact that citizens are not aware, for example, of the calorific value of different types of wood, of the value-to-value ratio, and of the time it is worth allowing the firewood to dry. There are very significant differences in efficiency as to whether a family can invest in one or two years of firepower and whether it knows how to use this tree in its proper dryness. Overall, I have to say that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support this proposal, as a significant part of the amendments are forward-looking, but we are at the same time seriously behind, and it would have been much better to do so years earlier. The concerns that have been raised are being addressed by amendments and we are encouraging the Government to stand constructively on this issue, and then, I believe, that this could also be a piece of legislation that Parliament's political groups will be able to agree to. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-216	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. [[18.00]]
u2015-03-17-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I welcome Secretary Bitay. Now we can say that we need to sing a softer song, because obviously what we've had the opportunity to meet before is one of the biggest villains in my eyes that the wallet can do at all. However, this is such a constructive draft legislation [[Dr. Márton Örs Bitay: Don't praise us so much, we're confident!]] , on which dialogue can be conducted without further discussion. There may be a number of questions and suggestions on forest wealth and forestry, which are worth mentioning in the general debate on this. We know that Hungary lost 84 percent of its forests after the Trianon peace treaty, as a result of which the previous forest frying of about 26-27 percent dropped significantly to 11,8 percent. As a result of the measures implemented since then, forest frying has increased by more than 20 per cent by 2013. The first thing I would like to say to you, if I may, Mr Secretary, is what a debate today has already brought out in connection with legislation on property registration, namely that this number is false. It is false, because it is virtually impossible to combine the forest with installations where we install a noble summer of practically the same genetic stock for paper factory purposes or anything like that, let's say, in a price area, because these two are not distinguished in the current cultivation line. Therefore, this forest growth cannot be seen as an entirely real number, because a good part of it is a simple tree plantation. I think it would be much better for the government, too, Mr. Great Secretary of State said that they would consider and perhaps negotiate about this in order to distinguish the tree plantation and the forest sector. This would be very, very helpful for statistics of this kind. Obviously, our country's long-term goal varies at different levels of government, but according to the even greater forest frying, the national forest planting programme, it would be fortunate to achieve 27 percent of the country's territory, but obviously it doesn't matter that we're talking about a noble summer a few meters away from each other or a biologically ecological forest. Because while the end-use process of one of them is a completely practical management aspect, in the biologically defined forests, almost all that should be done in Hungary in a number of areas, and it would be good for the law to act in this direction. Generally well-known and generationally, most people know that the Rockenbauer Pál One and a Half Million steps in Hungary were the renowned Hungarian forest engineer András Madas, who was also introduced to Hungary in 72. At the World Forest Congress, it defined the threefold exploitation that should be taken into account at the same time in all forest areas: economic functions, environmental and ecological functions and social and recreational functions. The problem is that at each level of governance, they are taken into account in different proportions and not equally. It would therefore be very, very good if long-term regulation would help to achieve this in line with the principles at that time. Here again, I am returning to the problem of forest plantations and forest plantings, which may pull such statistics aside. God save me from having the FM tell me that I'm anti-Hungarian or something because I pronounce the word acacia out of my mouth. We know that in the election campaign it was very, very much said that it was necessary to protect the Hungarian acacia, and perhaps this non-existent species became a hungaricum too, that it was a Hungarian acacia. However, I find it somewhat worrying that Hungary's forest festivities are present in the highest proportion, practically 24.2%, of acacias. I would ask the Secretary of State separately, after I have an idea of what, say, the right to property management of protected areas will be, to take into account that the former legislation and the previous application of law have allowed at least the protected areas not to plant foreign species of wood. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I, too, obviously acknowledge that in the Hungarian Great Plain, given that after the river water regulations in Tisza, the ground water level has fallen several metres, the traditional Sziki oak forests or the traditional gallery forests, the justification for the existence of certain floodland forests, unfortunately, if it has not ceased, but the conditions of existence are basically yes, and in many places the acacia has a rational management use. However, it cannot be considered normal that the largest areas are already covered by acacias. It would therefore be good to take these aspects into account in the legislative process and to focus on this. During today's debate with you, I said that I have no obligation to highlight what is good out of a law. But now I'm gonna let it go. I do not agree with the other so much that I really could only use the frontal, confrontative approach, but here I see the possibility of dialogue and common thinking. We've practically seen it, and the problem isn't even with the aspects that are in the legislation. Article 1 § conversions are simply necessary. Obviously, what my fellow Members have said before me is that without it, it is practically impossible to eliminate the fires involved in the whitening of the wall, if any, if any, forgive me, so the possible illegal purchase of timber shops. In many places, inspectors have previously found that the same stock of timber has been sold several times, even though it was only once a supplier of proof of income. Obviously, that's a problem. However, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that there is a very high rate of illegal grubbing-up not only from forest areas and not only from forest areas. In many cubic meters, the amount of wood that is illegally extracted from traceable facilities during various road cleanings can be measured. It is very, very important that the long-term fate of this be resolved and supervised. Article 2 We also did not see any mines in § 3, and we consider them to be virtually fully eligible. Article 3 § made us think because our feelings were a little mixed there. At first, there really was an opposition experience, forgive me, Mr Secretary, that you always find this a little bit of a concern, because what you want to bring out again, what rights you want to hand over. At the same time, we have received forest examples from experts that there are specific forest areas where, let's say, the state does not want to operate the campsite or a tourist establishment in any form, but the local government would like to take over. A specific example is given in the area of Szentendre Island, Kisorosi and such places, where the forest would be easy to exploit, but not the forest manager, but someone else to take over. So if we were to tighten up this regulation a little bit, it would be even more comforting to say that it is not something that is going to happen here, but that if the frames were set a little bit, it would help a lot. On a general level, we can say that with the heading "red tape reduction" under Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, We were very pleased to hear that. It's pointless that one body of the state is asking money from another. So this is fully eligible. Article 5 It can also be said that it is eligible. In the absence of this, the field guard, the nature conservation guard, the policeman is almost a one-armed giant, a very difficult official, because he can only work with enormous bureaucracy. So it's a necessary transformation. However, there is also logging in logging and in areas not covered by the forest law. With regard to the former, we would be lucky to have a description here, as well, of the endorsed copy of wood harvesting in the wooding or in the closed garden forest and the identification map as a requirement. This could further strengthen the system. Article 6 The only shortage in § 2 is that the transport ticket system for the logging of closed garden forests, which has been left out of paragraph 2 - we have seen and always missed several changes to the forest law. This basically creates the possibility of misuse of VAT. Therefore, the use of this transport ticket might be worth considering for the rapporteur. Article 6 In paragraph 3 of Section 3, we also watched that it practically settles the circle of who has all kinds of possibilities to control the tree stock. But the question may arise many times: a nature conservation guard or field guard, if he doesn't have a GPS or anything that tells us which location number he has, how he will be able to identify exactly how he will determine whether the wooded area is subject to the forest law or not. This is what has come up as a professional concern as to whether or not you will have the field knowledge you need. Article 7 § is what we also consider very, very good, and very, very lucky that it will be implemented. We can support that, too. [[18.10]] The transport ticket system for the logging of closed garden forests, which has been left out of paragraph 4 - we have seen and always missed several amendments to the forest law. This basically creates the possibility of misuse of VAT. Therefore, the use of this transport ticket might be worth considering for the rapporteur. Article 6 In paragraph 3 of Section 3, we also watched that it practically settles the circle of who has all kinds of possibilities to control the tree stock. But the question may arise many times: a nature conservation guard or field guard, if he doesn't have a GPS or anything that tells us which location number he has, how he will be able to identify exactly how he will determine whether the wooded area is subject to the forest law or not. This is what has come up as a professional concern as to whether or not you will have the field knowledge you need. Article 7 § is what we also consider very, very good, and very, very lucky that it will be implemented. We can support that, too.(18.10) I would like to say one or two general things, because, as I said, we do not see, in a significant part, any problems with what is in the proposal and would be eligible, but the rules on the transparency of forest planning have been significantly reduced in the previous forest law amendment. So for those who could participate in the forest planning process, the range of possibilities has decreased significantly. It would have been very good if, with this regulation, the Prime Minister's promises to help create transparency on the transparent exploitation of state assets would have been complemented by such a regulation, and the publicity of forest planning would have been re-established or at least expanded. We see this as a major deficiency that there is no attempt to rebuild legislation in this regard. The most important thing, which I believe, today, is that we have been unwittingly speaking, because this was not on the agenda, and this is the case of state forestry. The test of pudding is eating. The legislation will be really good if it is able to achieve the goals set in the application of the law. An incredible big problem in Hungary is the impenetrable management of 22 public forestry. Technically, I can't get information out of them on a lawsuit, so I have personal experience. We've been looking for all 22 forest farms, some of them we've sued, we've tried to get information on his farming through lawsuits. Technically, state forestry is a terrible state, and we see huge amounts in their tax returns, with minimal tax income, so they work with very small profits, even though it is one of the largest natural resources in the state. So the settlement of these, which is not necessarily the task of this legislation, but it would be very, very important for the government's task and competence in relation to forest management to begin with this legislative work, and the portfolio would make as many and as powerful as possible provisions as possible that public forestry would in some way become efficient, cost-effective, transparent and as far as possible for Community purposes. Overall, I must be honest with you that we will look at this legislation once again. The things I've told you are practically 14. Everything we can support up to §8. We may be alive with a small amendment or two. A stay in the worst case, which could happen, and by the way, we're trying to support it if it's possible. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-17-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. An independent Member is not in the Chamber at the moment, so a two-minute speech is possible. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Egyed of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-03-17-219	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Here, it is very important to note that in connection with this law, and I would like to get a little more involved in the subject of illegal logging than in the northeast. By the way, as the Secretary of State has said here, believe me, Mr Secretary, this situation in North-East Hungary is much worse than what you have said here. In practice, it can be seen that in some settlements, such as Miskolc, who travels to Lukó, goes to Szendrerad, it can be seen that the forest has practically moved two to three kilometers from the settlement, because as the local population and the illegal tree takers cut the trees, the forest moves away. If someone goes out into the woods, either at dusk or at night, say, if he is a forest-walking man or hunter, he will find that Shakespeare's words are not heard from the forest, but unfortunately the chainsaws. I believe that this can only be prevented by the power of the law and by some very powerful and drastic intervention, because last year, in Szendrő, there was a living example that the thieves who had been caught in the carjacking of the wall attacked the police and assaulted the police. So I'm guessing that if you attack a police officer, you're not really gonna be held back by anything. I believe that the protection of forests, as my fellow Members have said, is our duty for future generations. I would also ask my fellow pro-government Members and Secretary of State to lobby in order to build a system in Hungary, whether it is a system of field guards or a system of forest guards that is endowed with the permissions to prevent these tree thieves, because believe me, this is a common interest. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-03-17-220	Thank you very much. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. Mr Tamás László from the Fidesz Group is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I live in the outskirts of Budapest, where I am a representative of the XV. in the district. When the forest is spoken out, people in Budapest, let's say, the Buda Mountains come to mind. Pest precincts, by the way, have quite a lot of forest, and these forest spots are struggling with a lot of special problems. In addition to the New Palota estate, there is also a large forest area, a small forest which was used by the people of the residential estate as a semi-softly welfare forest until this forest area was overrun by the homeless. We have managed to clean this forest spot together with the Pilisi Park Forest Farm, and since then there has been virtually a development into a welfare forest in this area. Many other Pest precincts have similar accounts. Here, there are also significant problems with ownership. The Pilisians have a significant coherent forest area, but there are many small compensation plots that make single forest management difficult. I think it's worth talking about, too. But there are also such problems in Pest, my fellow Member has already spoken about the threefold use of forests, and let me give you a few thoughts on the state of the forest. This, for example, usually appears as an alibi in the Budapest regulatory framework, when, let's say, the separation between an industrial area and a residential area has to be resolved, then we write that this is a protected forest area without a piece of wood. I believe that in the area of Pest a very significant foresting programme can be launched either in the inner districts or in the outer districts. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-03-17-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek is next.
u2015-03-17-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and I apologize, but I just forgot two things, and I saw it here in my notes. What I would like to draw your attention to is one part of the knowledge of the theft practice, because in the Central Tisza region, in regular consultation with nature conservation guards, I have heard - the Central Tisza Landscape Protection District, protected forests - that in many cases nature conservation guards go after illegal extractions do not take place. Unfortunately, we are talking about a wooden structure where, let's say, half the settlement structure is abandoned, and in many cases, illegally harvested wood is placed in a place that is uninhabited, so let's say the elderly owner is already in a social home or left the apartment. Article 9 Paragraph 6 of § 6 which states that a fine may be imposed where the wood product which established the infringement has been found by the forestry authority will in many cases raise problems of application, since in many cases illegal wood is planted where the illegal timber producer does not live. In full agreement with my better fellow Member, I think that we need the five-party, or I do not know how many of us we are, a multi-party agreement in Parliament to act as effectively as possible against illegal logging, this is very, very important. Mr. Secretary of State, there's one more thing I've been thinking about in the meantime. Now I don't remember seeing in the legislation whether the problem of illegal landfilling has also increased in a number of areas, and I know that they have not been able to act effectively. I will look at it, or if it is not in the codified text, I will make a concrete proposal for this. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-17-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will now continue with the speeches of the ordinary Members. First I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli. [[Intercoms: He's not here.]] I'm sorry, I can see it now. Mr Zoltán Magyar is next.
u2015-03-17-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will be very brief, but here we have a long-standing problem with the tree, which I am recommending to the Secretary of State, and I hope that you will be able to interpret it, especially in the direction of Brussels. This is a Győr-Moson-Sopron county story. A number of Szigetköz projects are currently running, unfortunately they will not solve the water supply, but it will be the subject of a later debate, but there will be various habitat reconstructions and other developments in this area, and a significant amount of wood will be produced thanks to the investment. [[18.20]] The ownership and use of this tree is very special. We are at the moment saying that the public body that has won this 6 billion-dollar project and now has several times a 6 billion-dollar project should virtually have its own employees steal the wood - I say it very badly and in a corner, of course - or can't wait to have a flood in the area so that this amount of wood can be described simply because it is so unpractical that the system of these applications is so unreasonable that they can't place this amount of wood. They are of no use to them, nor can their income come from the wood extracted. Because of these anomalies, problems, they are unable to deliver this amount of wood intelligently and in accordance with the legislation, either for social purposes or for the heating of any public institution, or no matter what kind of exploitation we think of here, taking into account the aspects of the common good. It'd be nice if you could translate that. By the way, the same applies to gravel and similar recyclable products. It's an absolute brain attack and an untenable state. It would be very good for Brussels to finally take into account such EU proposals, that in reality, these problems can prevent quite serious investments and cause serious problems for people who want nothing but to work decently, to carry out the work undertaken in the project and then to account fairly. But it's difficult under these conditions. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] As no one has come forward for further debate, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Bitay Márton, State Secretary, whether he wishes to respond as rapporteur to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-17-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Just make it quick, 'cause I really think we're in agreement with this law. The first thing is what's left out of it. A lot of things, that's true. However, the reason why much was left out of it is because a general amendment to the forest law is worth considering, and the general amendment is worth considering if we know exactly what we want to do with the nature conservation law, the forest law and the hunting law. These are the laws that go hand in hand, which are worth considering together. Which is why we have now restrained ourselves - even though we could change it in many other places - so that this EC regulation can enter into force as soon as possible, and the most important technical changes that can be resolved so quickly, let us try to remedy them now. And by the way, I'm hoping that by the end of spring, by the summer, there will be a concept of forest law that will generate an overview of the whole situation. In 2009, a law was adopted in relatively rapid steps, which did not take into account the conservation and hunting law of 96 or the law on the protection of the wild game. And then there was a separation. It's gonna be worth combing together sometime to make sure it's okay. Thank you for your support, Mr Zsolt Legény, to the speaker of the MSZP. MEP Zoltán Magyar mentioned that many timber companies have ceased or have been wound up. I would like to point out that the solution to this situation is not primarily a state task, but we place great emphasis on the fact that instead of the practice of Hungarian wood processors such as state forestry in the previous periods before 2010, family farms and not family farms, this is not a good word, but rather the local timber companies, they are trying to provide raw materials and keep as much raw materials as possible within Hungary. We really have a lot to do. I accept the reproach that it is possible to move faster on forest issues, but I would also like to stress that the Hungarian forest fry has increased by nearly 13 thousand hectares, which is still a very serious size. And as Mr. Robert Benedek said about it, in the situation after the Trianon peace dictatorship, this is important. The increase didn't stop in the '60s and '70s, but we're still in continuous planting. MEP Zoltán Magyar raised a unique case. I would like to see if you could get this to me through these glasses, see if there is any room for manoeuvre in the light of the rules of the European Union. I would like to say to Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek that, after there really is no difference between us in this debate in relation to tree plantations, I agree with you, it is worth considering whether a legislative distinction should be made with regard to natural forest frying and planted forests. Obviously, this should be carefully thought out by the right professionals. I'd just like to add to the idea that there are even energy plants, which is actually wood, but it's not. So what you said is true is that we also need to look at the legislative issues here. He mentioned that the acacia ratio is too high and increasing. What is important, however, is that the threefold function of the forest is public welfare, protection - we have already talked about - and economic. However, acacia has a very serious economic function, an economic effect. There is still no acacia in protected natural areas, so this is not typical of protected natural areas at all. And there is something else when we develop our strategy - I think we should agree on that - the climate. However, we need to look at the species of wood that can cope with this situation in changing climatic conditions. As a result of years of chronic atmospheric drought, which has been going on for decades, the pine stock has been so drastically reduced that in a short period of time it will also be a question of whether there is any room to talk about pine use at all from a forestry point of view. So there are a lot of questions that need to be considered. Perhaps, let us say, the larch, which is supposed to be an alien species, does not belong here, but if the only pine species that still tolerates some of this atmospheric drought - I do not say that it is so, I ask only one question - then it is certainly worth considering that we will continue to eliminate it - of course only figuratively - or perhaps give it more space. In relation to the trails: it is in the law that the legislation also applies to timber placed on the market from areas not covered by the law. Here he knocks on open doors. In the 22 state forests - I don't want to, I can't generate a debate now, but I don't want to, it's another conversation - I think there's something to be done, but what you said is very polar, and I don't agree with them. Congressman Zsolt Egyed said that the forest must be protected. That's right. We certainly need to pay attention to the fact that we do not have to send out more people to protect him in the woods, but perhaps these rules will help us to reduce illegal logging. Mr Tamás László mentioned the funding programmes. We're happy to be here. Public forest farms are capable of participating in such programmes, but obviously this requires primarily an area. And those areas that aren't managed by state forest farms are not forests. If the outer districts, if I may say so, may be able to show an area that is not currently in the forest sector, but they would like it to be there, because it is useful, we are at anyone's disposal and we are trying to help. This is true not only for the metropolitan districts, but also nationally. In the end, Mr Róbert Benedek mentioned the issue of illegal waste. This is indeed an important task, but I cannot handle it in this law or in the forest law, these issues must be settled in another legislation. A number of positive measures have been taken in this respect in the cycle behind us. There is no doubt a lot of work to be done, but forest law competence is not the issue of waste. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[18.30]]
u2015-03-17-228	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Here comes the 1996 LV on game protection, game management and hunting. General debate on the draft law amending the law until closure. The submission is T/3754. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Márton Bitay, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-17-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Members, Perhaps I should start here, as I said in the previous debate, by considering the forest law, the nature conservation law and the hunting law general, it will allow us to amend this law more deeply. The situation has now emerged because of some time constraints or time constraints that we have tabled this proposal, and here we have been looking for answers only to the most necessary questions to be resolved at the moment. The legislative background will be amended in three short points. Wild game management zone plans are in force for a period of 10 years under current legislation and are based on three levels of wild game management planning. It is therefore appropriate to extend the validity of the regional plans until the last day of February 2016, with a view to the continuous review of the wildlife management legislation and the redevelopment of the hunting areas as a result of the expiry of the 10-year operational planning cycle next year. I am also trying to point out here that we are talking about a situation where we know well that it is necessary to touch the Wildlife Protection Act, we know that in 2017, the areas will be rethought, but we also know that the plant plans have expired. Therefore, we had to come up with something, and we felt that it was a fair solution not before the new law, not before the new systems have been developed, but to extend the old one and give it a basis. I would like to mention that the development of new plans for the hunting grounds obviously means something based on scientific and broad social consensus, and I would like to go through this very seriously in the spirit of the law. It is very important to see what the main aspect is: the main aspect is not the hunter, but the wild one. Therefore, it is very important that professional priorities should be prioritised and area plans adopted that also take into account the quantity of wild game, the quality of wild game stocks, the quantity of small game stocks and locality. For this reason, the national wildlife database also provides a number of help in carrying out the work. The amendment also eliminates the mandatory use of a professional hunter with a higher education qualification in hunting areas of more than 10,000 hectares and in specific hunting areas. In line with the government's job creation and employment policy objectives, the professional hunter's professional qualifications will be mitigated in a reasonable way, leaving the hunting authority with the discretion of requiring the use of a professional hunter of higher education where the local interest in the management of the game requires. It was a practical experience, we wanted to change it quickly, they're stacked like this. [[He's showing it to me.]] the comments are justified as to why, with secondary game management qualifications, we should set limits on the area. In my view, the area limit is not the interesting thing here, but the area it manages. There may be a need for professional qualifications at 3,000 hectares that would justify a higher education. At the same time, it is foolish to limit the need to be more than ten thousand, because we know a number of wildlife management units, where there is no event that requires a special higher education. But the legislator says that we should only eliminate the need to leave room for the authority, the local competent people, to decide where they are prescribed or not. And the third item is the issue of the collision between the wild and the motor vehicle, which, because of the situation in the Civil Code, is now worthwhile and necessary to tie up. There have been anomalies that have become untenable. There have been responsibilities that are in no way desirable. But I would like to stress that in the course of the work we do in the Ministry of Agriculture on this subject, as regards the rethinking of the general of the hunting law, the issue of the collision of the wild game vehicle has been discussed on several occasions. My point is that a reasonable legal background can be created for this too, which, however, prefers self-care more than it is now, while not creating unsuitable obligations or unfortunate situations where, where appropriate, the driver or the person entitled to hunt, I would say, unduly damaging. Dear Parliament, The T/3754. Therefore, the draft law on the real design of game management planning, a rational reduction of the qualification requirements of professional hunters and the elimination of legal certainty with the measures envisaged aim. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Abolish legal certainty?]] Accordingly, and in this spirit, I would like to ask the House to discuss it, and I do not want to ask for it, that is a fact, but I would like to ask that it will adopt this proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-17-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be followed by the speeches of the Members of the Council, which will also be the first round of speeches by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Béla Dankó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-231	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us does not go beyond the introduction of a few minor but important changes, since the fundamental reform of hunting rules is already in the process of drawing up. In view of this comprehensive proposal, which will hopefully come as close to us in the future, the scope of the regional wild game management plans will be changed. The extension of the ten-year plans will allow the new wild game management plans to be drawn up in accordance with the new rules, and the legislation that undergoes the fundamental changes to be met as little as possible with the plans adopted according to previous principles. The Hunting Act also varies according to government objectives for a rational reduction of qualification requirements. Government Decision 2054/2013 aims to open the labour market to as wide a range of workers as possible. According to the Decision, the requirements for filling certain jobs should be defined in such a way that they are not unduly high in relation to the job, but that the minimum competence required for the work is in any event available. As a result of this amendment, professional hunters in hunting areas of more than ten thousand hectares or special purpose areas will no longer be required to have a higher education degree. In the event of a collision between wild game and motor vehicles, the current legislation is not clear enough in relation to the provisions of the new Civil Code. This problem was also highlighted by the National Hungarian Hunting Defense Association. In order for the regulatory environment to be able to ensure clean relations in these cases, it is necessary to amend the hunting law. From now on, civil law rules for meeting dangerous plants will apply in such cases. I ask for the support of my fellow Members for these few necessary amendments. I would also like to point out to the wallet that we are looking forward to the reform of the hunting law. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-17-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zoltán Gőgös. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-233	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a small amendment to the law, which can be agreed with the vast majority of it. It is also by proposing to extend the duration of the game management plans, and also by regulating the problems of vehicle collisions in the Ptk., because they are real cases and its regulation has not been clear to date. [[18.40]] However, there is a suggestion of this point, which is 2. §, which would not require professional hunters to have a higher education degree. We know that the current state is that professional hunters work with the most technical qualifications, but I think that it would be such a step backwards from regulation that anyone, say, even a - now I'm exaggerating - with a goldfishing course can be a ranger or a professional hunter, so we wouldn't think that's a good thing. So I am not saying that everyone should have a higher education degree, because I do not think that can be done in the medium term, but we have proposed an amendment that in areas that are large areas, such as, let's say, over 10 000 hectares, we have written this in a classic way, or areas with special protection and management, where the employment of a better qualified professional is definitely justified, should not normally be this proposal. So there, we would require a compulsory level of higher education. Otherwise, we would normally record the current state, because it is the very serious hunting, for example by state forestry and others, that is obviously not a question of whether or not there is a hunting professional with a higher education degree, as there is, but I believe that this issue should be resolved in this way. So I can now say that we have no problem with the vast majority of the bill, but that in general, we would not be able to support this in a full-scale way from a professional in the field of game management with a higher education degree. So I'm asking the government to talk about it, or it could be any other suggestion, but that it should not be entirely general, so that this obligation to graduate will be abolished. By the way, the rest of it, as I indicated, is eligible for us. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-17-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Magyar is coming from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. We've been waiting a long time for the General to amend a hunting law. This has been a subject in Parliament since practically 2010 - at least I have been a Member since then - and this legislation is bleeding from many wounds, and I was saddened to see that it is actually being modified only at these few points. Otherwise, these amendments would not be necessary if a fair revision of the hunting law had already been made. It is necessary and demanded only because there is a great deal of abuse around the hunts. Only in my county, my constituency, there are at least three hunting companies where it has been found that delegates may have been convened on behalf of the dead, and even where, in the area of government property management, the state did not take the side of the public initiative, and in this way the state came against itself, and that is why the hunting company has not been implemented within a framework that would otherwise serve the interests of the state and the landowners, the other landowners, and there has not been any consequences. So, in any case, a major amendment would be timely, and the whole law should be rethinked. And I don't get it, number one and two. I agree with Section 3. I don't understand why Ptk was brought here. This is a copy of a Ctrl+Ctrl+V from Ptk. I don't understand legally what's the point of rewriting this here, while the Ptk. clearly state what should be done in such cases. This might help those who refuse to read Ptk. in such a case, just this specialized law, or what's the point? I'd like an answer to that. Especially when there will be a comprehensive amendment to the hunting law. Since 2010, if I have not asked this in Parliament a dozen times, then not once, and I have always been told that this change of legislation will definitely come before us in the next semester. I believe that it is good for many people to fish in confusion, which is now around the hunt - to live with such an image disorder now - but it would be good to finally clarify this area and to establish a system, a transparent, sustainable model in Hungary that is forward-looking and useful to as many actors as possible. After all, we need to think not only about the interests of the owner of the land, but also about the interests of hunting tourism, the interests of the Hungarian hunting community, the interests of agricultural operators, the interests of motor vehicle owners and drivers, and the interests of the entire Hungarian society at all, because in some way it affects everyone. Starting from the feeding, through everyday forest travel, many areas could be mentioned, where there is a serious impact on how we think about hunting and this activity. So I hope that I will now really get an answer to this question that will determine in the foreseeable future when the full legislation will finally be changed. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I assure you, Mr Secretary, that this legislative amendment proposal will not give rise to intense emotions, which is due to the fact that it is possible to agree with him in his direction, and I think it would be worthwhile to have a professional dialogue. I hope very, very sincerely that it wasn't a Secretary of State who codified it personally, because I wouldn't want to offend you, but overall, I have the impression that this is a poorly formulated proposal, so that it would have been nice to be a little more thorough here, but otherwise you can agree with the objectives themselves. My first request for such terminology is that, if you consider it as an author, this concept of a hunting animal does not appear in the previous legislation, and it is also the implementing law itself, i.e. 79/2004. In all cases, it mentions a species that can be hunted, and in all cases it says so, so there are no animals that can be hunted that are placed on the table, and in all cases they are animals of animal species. This is a terminology error, so if I could ask you to pay attention to this kind of professional skill, I think it would be good to correct that. So animals appear everywhere in the text before us now. It is worth considering that this is rather the Secretary of State's table, although I do not know how much this matters in civil law, it is very important that every reason, say in the case of a collision, is considered an irresistible reason. Therefore, it is very important that the amended civil code, i.e. the 2013 CCLII, is amended. The law already identifies an irrefutable reason for such accidents, and the question is whether this term is necessary here or not. These may seem small, but they only strengthen professionalism. Let me tell you one more thing, forgive me for not seeing you in the current hunting law of the 75th century. Paragraph (a) of this Article provides how it is formulated, as civil liability for damage caused by hunting animal species arises in many other respects. If we mention the matter of motor vehicles in the explanatory statement, it is very interesting what I read the other day, that more and more places are being chewed by the rabble in the cars, and it does not appear as an accident. However, it should be noted that this is ambiguous and that such a problem may arise in the application of the law. Then I'll go to the law in principle. Overall, Article 1 (a) (ii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) In fact, if we were to support the overall length of the plant plans later on, we would also support it because it could be justified in terms of wildlife management. The position of Mr Haughty, I mean that he raised the justification for this higher education degree: I would ask whether, either Mr Head of Department or Minister of State, if you would consider whether, for example, the EMMI or other such educational organisations will be consulted at this time, because, in this legislative application, after this has been required, and in the current legislation - if I understand correctly, Mr Haughty - you will propose virtually a leaver, since the current legislation has a requirement and is mandatory from 10 000 hectares, so in the current legislation, you have been able to say the same thing, so I think you will propose a leaving amendment. With reference to this place of law, virtually now in Hungary in Debrecen, Gödöllő, Gyöngyös, Hódmezővásárhely, Kaposvár, Sopron, they are training wild farmers in day classes, correspondence classes and evening classes. So this training started, and it has this number because the legislation so far has created the background for it to be necessary. Obviously, I am not familiar with the hunting authority's plans for how many places they want to prescribe this, but there is nevertheless some concern that this may have effects on the labour market, since for a multitude of newly emerging wild farmers who have had the opportunity so far, this is now in jeopardy. [[18.50]] Once again, I will not go along with this, because let the government decide how it is practical, but such dialogues should be conducted, because every year hundreds of wildlife engineers in the country have done so far. However, I would also suggest that it is not a sin of God to achieve the application of a highly trained wild farmer. I don't like school education, because I see every very good professional hunter or hunter with a secondary degree as a gamer technician, I see no good gamer engineers who don't know anything about their profession, so basically I don't like it when it's the only way to distinguish between a man's qualifications. At the same time, we can certainly see it, and I think that both of them read the literature on hunting in the press, and from a Béla Hidvégi, there is no person in Hungary who, let's say, wouldn't cry for the petty blind, not say that these habitats and these species are in great danger. Today, there are clearly publications that say that in our lives, within a few ten years, let's say the hunting of the hare in the field is questionable how it will happen. In such cases, I think it would be very important to bring in good Habitats management and good professionals, to which theoretically, if we assume that the training of wildlife engineers is carried out with high quality work, as is the case in many cases, it might be helpful. So I'm a little skeptical of the practicality of the legislative amendment here, so I might say I'd think about it, but I'm not in the government, I'm not responsible for what happens to this. And finally, the last part, this is the Ptk app. Surely the gentlemen know better than I do, I believe that it was the same before last year, so it was pretty much common, the last year's amendment was silly; so it's been like this since practically in the small game area, where the big game, let's say, deer, a deer in a large-value vehicle, could collapse the entire hunting company in one day, in an instant. So if a deer jumps in front of an A8 now, it breaks the front and practically the hunting company goes bankrupt the next day. So the realization of this is that common bearing of burdens is very, very practical, so it was the last year's amendment that was very unjustified. For my part, I am glad that this is coming back, but it certainly is not a substitute for long-term thinking. He was here - I don't know, a month ago or I don't know when - this is the insurance code before us. It would have been very, very good if we had thought of the wild farmer's eyes and looked at whether the application of mandatory liability insurance in one or two places in Western Europe could not be a solution, or whether there is no solution yet that would handle this in the long term, because it is still a very, very big problem to bear its own damage, as it could be very serious damage to either the farmer or the owner of the car. Another very important thing is that we are talking about the damage caused by hunting species. I am seeing more and more in Western Hungary, and I see more and more that the wildlife fences surround vast areas, and as a result, the large wild game that I already consider to be a little high narrows down to habitats. Obviously, the system of these fences affects the movement of these species, and many times these can affect the occurrence of an accident or the occurrence of an accident in the case of a bee hunter. Therefore, the rethinking of the settlement of wildlife damage is certainly justified beyond this. So I accept from the Secretary of State that this regulation, with firefighter's work, is now restoring that there should be no legal anomalies and many civil lawsuits, and that we should not destroy hunting companies, I agree, but this is not a long-term solution, so this should be clearly regulated. So, overall, I'm saying, at first glance, it looks like a stay in the worst case, but with a few minor modifications, you might as well get a grant. Obviously, in relation to this, if it is to be done in a textual way, then I will also submit the amendments by Thursday. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-17-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As an independent Member remains not in the Chamber, they are not allowed to speak. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr Zsolt Legény. Here you go.
u2015-03-17-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the third part of the bill tabled, which was also mentioned by Mr Magyar and Mr Sallai, which is intended to address the problem of wild-vehicle collisions. This amendment, in the case of wild-vehicle collisions, means a return to liability rules under the old civil code, so, as Congressman Sallai mentioned, it was practically last year's amendment - if I may say so - not appropriate, and we are going to go back to the old practice, which, in short and in a sentence, will have the essence that old practice was much more favourable to car owners and less favourable to hunting companies, the last year's amendment, let us say, has put hunting companies in a better position in this respect, but, as Mr Sallai said, in very many cases, it has resulted in unfair living situations. As far as I'm concerned, my faction is concerned, we're going back to the old civil code rules. We certainly consider this to be beneficial and good, and we think that this is the right thing to do, and indeed we should not put citizens in a very unfavourable position in a collision with a wild animal. It's a big problem, it's pretty traumatic for them that if they're in a road accident, we don't have to do that even financially. If I may, Mr Secretary, I hope I would just like to draw attention to an oral statement. In the last sentence of his expozee, he was able to say that this legislation would propose the elimination of legal certainty. I guess that was just a catchphrase. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now time for a proper speech from the Jobbik Group, Mr Zsolt Egyed. Here you go.
u2015-03-17-241	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I agree with the previous speakers that this proposal may provide a solution with such a firefighter's character for some time, but we also agree that we all think that it is timely to develop a completely complex new system and would have been timely years ago. I trust this will be replaced as soon as possible. It's a shame that Pride... is here with my fellow Member with pride. I would argue with Mr Grumpy in such a way that I would not consider it a priority to consider whether, where appropriate, a hunting master has a college degree or a higher education degree. I consider it a far more important and far greater virtue that if a person who performs this noble task lives with the forest, he grew up there, perhaps learning from his father, his grandfather, everything about the forest, the wildlings; I think that this may be a more important argument in the pursuit of such a profession than that he has a technical degree or, where appropriate, a college degree. Several people have spoken before me about wildlife damage, passenger cars or, where appropriate, trucks versus wild boars, deer, all other wild animals. I would also like to draw attention to one very important thing, which, by the way, causes enormous damage to the masses of people, and this is the damage not only to motor vehicles, but also to gardens and crops. As a man living in Gömör, there are plenty of wild animals living in the mountains, and countless people have complained to me that they are virtually no longer planting anything, because wild boars go into the garden, toss the potatoes, eat everything, deer chew the shoots off, so it is not worth doing anything about it. I personally experienced in a settlement in Sződliget that at 9:00 p.m. six boars came across from me on the main street of the village in the village. I think that responsible wildlife management also includes, in all respects, an adequate quantity of wildlife in Hungary, so it is not fortunate, if hunting companies or hunters are in fact unable to kill game, but I do not consider it, my fellow Members, a fortunate case, which is typical of a significant part of the country or a good part of it, that certain species of wild game are multiplied to such an extent - perhaps we can talk about wild boar in particular - which can cause terrible damage and is virtually an unmanageable opponent for the people in the countryside, where they are farmers. I'd like to see one of us here, who we say the wild boar family sits in the corn, eats good food and spends his days, who would dare to follow them without a gun or anything. I'm guessing no one. [[19.00]] So these people are practically defenseless against these problems, and we're not talking about rich people, I have to add, they don't grow out of a pass, but their daily livelihood depends on whether or not the potatoes or other that grow in the garden are complementary to the household of the family. So I would also like these people to be taken into account in the legislative process by the Secretary of State and by my fellow members who are pro-government. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. [[For signal:]] But I'm speaking to Congressman Zsolt Legány in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-03-17-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, very briefly, for a moment. I would say, Mr individual, that the point of our legislative amendment to my fellow Members, Mr Gruff and Mr Bell, would be that, as you have said, either on large land or in such a specific area - I could say a great deal from the country, but, for example, Gemenc, as you have mentioned - where, let us say, we think it is particularly good that - not only as you have mentioned - there is also a practical person, but there is also a specialist who has also been involved in theoretical education, and it is not a problem if the qualification of such a specialist is included in the law. So our proposal is specifically, let's say, specific areas, or where, let's say, the gene pool requires it, or where a larger area requires it. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-17-244	Thank you very much. Then now is the time to close the general debate. I will ask Mr Bitay Márton, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yes, I'll give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-17-245	To put an end to legal uncertainty - that is what I wanted to say. If I may, I would ask you to amend the protocol to that effect, it was a slip of the tongue. Mr Haughty agrees with the majority of what he has said, thank you very much. In higher education - and here I would respond to everyone's comments on this point in the debate - we are talking about eliminating the obligation to do so. We're not talking about not being able to, we're just saying that we think that we can make a strike rule based on which we can separate that it's mandatory, then we can't, and now we're saying we can't. This 10,000-acre rule is not good, because there is a hunting area - and I said so in my expo - where it doesn't matter, and there is one where it would be very important at 3,000 hectares. That's all the proposal is about. Mr Zoltán Magyar mentioned why we have not already taken action on this issue and why we have not brought up the issue of the Hunting Law. I could tell you - in addition to being right, these are tumultuous issues, and they really need to be dealt with - but there is a date here that basically defines hunting opportunities in Hungary, and this is a certain 2017 where a whole new cycle of exploitation begins. I think that this is a logical situation, and I have also tried to refer to this in my expo, so that we should now collect everything, rethink the legislation, and adapt these rules in line with the new plant plans, the new exploitation frameworks, and with regard to them. He mentioned the Ptk. in relation to Ctrl+C-Ctrl+V. I suppose it became clear to you in the debate that you are also right about this, Ctrl+Ctrl+V, but the old Ptk., not the new Ptk. Indeed, it is true that Mr Róbert Benedek Sallai mentioned this, and we did not think of that in legislation, and it has just been found that this is going to cause serious problems. We didn't just find out, we just got there, we've already found out in a number of places that this needs to be changed quickly, and we didn't want to come up with any formal ideas with the intention of creating consensus, saying that the new hunting law is planned, so we're back to the old application. The LMP proposal has been thanked, and I have also written that it could be included in mandatory motor liability insurance; we will include this in the LMP proposals. I've responded to higher education, I've responded to the training of the game engineer. The aspect of the rabbit habitat and the fence; these are all the neural points that the Member feels very well, we all feel, who have spoken in this debate, because others have said the same problems. That's right, these things can't be seen without context. The extent of wildlife damage cannot be separated from the size of the wild game and the length of the fences. For example: Somogy County has 2450 kilometers of wildlife fences, Somogy County has one of the biggest wildlife damage, and Somogy County has the largest wildlife surplus. I'm making use of the suspicion suit you claim that the narrowed-down life space is already very active in contributing to this phenomenon. These need to be seen complexly, and obviously this will also be decided on the basis of another debate as to the direction in which we are moving. A very interesting question is the damage caused by hunting or by wild species that cannot be hunted or protected, but there are very different damage liability, because while the hunting species are entitled to hunting, the question remains in the case of protected animals, what does it really look like now? I'm not even talking about, say, the damage to the vehicle caused by a protected game driven up by a small game of pheasant hunting is now whose liability it is. These need to be considered, but this is not a game management issue, but rather an insurance issue. In fact, rabbit-living farming is a very important thing, and this is something that needs to be dealt with. I also referred to it in my expozem; a declining stock of small gamers, a growing stock of wild gamers - none of them good. Mr Zsolt Legény, if not directly, but here I have answered the questions raised by Mr Ptk. about the fact that the amendment may have been wrong. I have also tried to respond to Mr Zsolt Egyed here in relation to wildlife damage, fences and overgrowth of wild game stocks; this question could be addressed indefinitely, but I would not comment on this for a longer time in view of the short amendment. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-17-246	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to submit amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission was made in T/3785. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr Bitay Márton Örs, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-17-247	Thank you very much again for the floor. I tried to cut my exposé short, despite the fact that, compared to the two laws that were discussed earlier, this contains much more serious and important amendments. I'd like to point out to everyone in chief why we're doing what we're doing. The amendment to the 2013 Act, which basically established the transition from fishing, large-scale commercial fishing to recreational and smaller fishing activities, is now a number of elements of this law that clearly show where and how it needs to be amended. That we're not doing this for our own good, I think it's clear from the numbers. Today, there are 243 businesses engaged in commercial fishing, with 243 people engaged in commercial fishing, and the fishing community consists of 350 thousand people in total. So we can clearly see why and why we need to touch these things, and commercial fishing, which is already well founded by the law, 2016. By 1st of month, it will cease in natural waters, and the most important elements of this need still to be laid off, and the amendment of the law is actually about them. [[19.10]] By clarifying and extending the definitions of fish ponds and fishing, the law allows for the regulation of fishing in the form of recreational fishing activities with hooks only at present. The proposal submitted also protects fish stocks and their habitats, following the basic concept of the law, by ensuring the continuity of fish management in cases where, for any reason, a municipality does not require the right to fish in its own or majority owned water areas. With the planned addition in these waters, it will be possible to determine the right to fish farming under a regulated procedure, who fulfils the related obligations, so that the waters cannot in any case remain without a good farmer. The new rule states that if an already used fish management water area becomes of special purpose, the lease contract will not be terminated immediately, the right to fish management may be exercised until the contract is terminated or terminated. This is, of course, clear from the legislation, only from a state point of view, Mr Róbert Sallai mentioned it in the state land assets, in the asset recovery contracts. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that this applies only to the state, parentheses such as Balaton. Believe it or not, that's why in history there was a time when private companies wanted to acquire the right to fish. Now, this amendment proposal also helps to prevent this. All of this protects the interests of the farmer of the already exploited fish management water area, as only after the lease agreement expires or is terminated can the special purpose fish management water area be used by a state asset management contract - we write here as well. The proposal was submitted in accordance with Article 4 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. In this case, the right holder of the right to benefit from the right to benefit from the right to benefit from the right to benefit from the right to benefit from the right to benefit from the right to benefit from the right The proposal contains a number of clarifications, additions to the provision of official operations, helps to identify the facts of unauthorised fishing and fishing, eliminates research activities, fish rescues and unduly rolled obstacles to selective fishing for ecological purposes, and introduces restrictions on catch logbooks. It also prohibits the use of catch methods in fish stocks and in fish ponds that cause damage to the environment for fish production facilities. Here we have the underlying international treaty, the Bern Convention. With regard to fisheries surveillance, it sets out changes to the imposition of fishing and conservation fines, and it clearly states that fishing tourism and fishing can be used for mass purposes... or for competitive sport promotion purposes from the time of training. In the case of private and privately owned lakes before the Law in force since 97, the recognition of the private property of the fish and, more specifically, the legal anomalies relating to the private property of the fish are now closed. With the amendment submitted, it will be possible to extend the lease contract concluded for the fish management water area, which will ensure the protection of valuable fish stocks with continuous management. Here, too, you need to think about ideas that, if the age and economic use of fish stocks, if necessary, we will provide, under certain conditions, an opportunity for the original farmer to benefit from this opportunity. In particular, I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to the fact that the proposal tabled is 22. § 3 states that the change expected and legitimately expected by hundreds of thousands of fishing societies will rise to a legal level, which will result in the fish stocks of natural waters in the future of 2016. exempt from commercial fishing with effect from 1 month; it prefers only recreational fishing, to the extent that the so-called small tool fishing may be used in the catch logbook in the context of the application of rules similar to those of fishing, in respect of small tool fishing and taking into account their quantitative limits. Dear Parliament, I believe that, following the adoption of the 2013 Act, there is now a serious, great opportunity to change the intentions of that law or the practical experience received after the entry into force of the law in an amending package, and to put an end to this matter in an amending package. Once again, I would like to draw everyone's attention, undisturbed, but it is also clear from the text that we would like to end commercial large-scale fishing in natural waters in the future, which we promised as an election promise, as well as in government programmes, in many places, and we would like to promote fishing in natural waters. In the course of the debate, I will also try to come up with a number of interesting examples of the subject if the kind Members so require. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-248	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be followed by the speeches of the Members, and in the first round of the speeches, the speeches will follow in accordance with our customs and house rules. First, I give the floor to Mr Béla Dankó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Each keynote speech takes 15 minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-249	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. Laws entered into force on 1 September 2013 and, at the time, was a major step forward in relation to the existing legislation. The aim of the previous regulation was to maximise the profits of fishing and fishing activities, but the new law brought a change of perspective: fishing and fishing activities must now be carried out in such a way as to enable the survival and natural renewal of fish stocks and not to hinder them. Accordingly, the legislation currently in force puts more emphasis on recreational fishing than fishing when it comes to the exploitation of natural waters. Since September 2013, it has been long enough for us to correct the law in the necessary places, based on the experience of the new spirit of regulation. The usual technical, legal, licensing and language amendments are, of course, all found in the proposal that we have just tabled, and I would not like to mention them further. The most important changes concern support for fish conservation and fishing, so that, according to the various professional needs, scientific and awareness-raising opportunities and ecological selective fishing opportunities and fish capture can be extended to a ministerial permit for freshwater aquariums and exhibitions in zoos, and fish can also be caught for scientific research or rescue purposes from natural habitats where otherwise strictly prohibited. There is a growing framework for supporting fishing tourism and fishing competition sport, which can be used by the sector's central revenues. In order to reduce illegal activities as effectively as possible, the sanctioning system of the fish management authority will be tightened up at some of the regulatory points that have been sensitive to so far, and the register will be expanded, while the discretions that will help to impose the fishing and conservation fines as fair as possible will rise to legal force. These changes are clearly in the interests of the majority of the fishing community following the rules and help to develop the domestic fishing culture, while also making the conservation of fish stocks more effective. [[19.20]] Commercial fishing licences will cease to be issued and commercial fishing will end in natural waters after 2015. Fish production facilities are subject to the animal protection requirements set out in the Berne Convention: in order to protect fish habitats and maintain the continuity of fish management, and in the interest of those involved in fish management, it will be possible for municipalities to waive their fishing rights for the benefit of the State and to extend the contracts for the land leased. The rights of tenants of special-purposed waters shall be protected, as well as the ownership of fish in private lakes. These amendments all contribute to achieving the objectives of the law adopted in 2013. I call for the support of my fellow Members for the proposals. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After practicing this kind of sport - unlike the other one I didn't talk about for a long time, about hunting, but I have an acquaintance who is close and practicing, but somehow I've never been brought to it by the soul - I have several opinions here, adding that this bill is basically acceptable, despite the fact that it is reaching into quite a lot of things, but it is true that it is trying to remedy in practice the problems that have emerged in connection with the previous law. I have indicated here to the Secretary of State that in some cases I would have been even stricter. Not all my fellow fishermen agree with this, but I think that it should be basically in that direction - so I would like to move the regulation from fishing for meat to sport fishing, which I think a significant part of the fishing community agrees with. For example, I find it very difficult to see fish over 7 or 8 kilos hit in the head. Now, I'm not saying I want to hit whoever's doing this on the head, but that's my personal opinion. Anyway, I don't think it's gastronomic, so from now on, I'm gonna encourage everyone to try smaller fish. By the way, I approve, for example, of the fact that the lower limit on the lake has now been 35 centimeters, which has not been the case so far. Sadly, on the basis of this - mostly foreigners, of course, who didn't even pay attention to the rules - they usually take much smaller ones, as I have seen from my own experience. But I also say that there are a lot of new elements in this regulation. There has always been and will always be a conflict between fishermen and fishermen, but it can also be seen that the economic interest and the significantly larger players must push things in the direction that I see there is a consensus, because the basic law or the law regulating it, if I remember correctly, was adopted unanimously. If possible, we would rather increase the economic benefits of fishing activity everywhere and reduce fishing preferably, but we should also be careful, or at least consider area designation, so that this ancient craft does not completely cease in Hungary, because it has quite serious traditions, especially in the area of the Tisza. The other one. You will also have to do something about the fact that classically - I fish on Lake Balaton in general - currently you can't officially get a Balaton fish in Balaton restaurants; you couldn't, you couldn't have it on the menu, because anglers can't sell fish, fishing doesn't happen on Lake Balaton, which, of course, most of the fishermen agree with, but you have to treat it separately, which is a ticking bomb. To tell you the truth, I don't really have a pretty good idea about that, seeing the animals, the business, that I'm sure at Lake Balaton we'll have to deal with in some way. I see now that the big water stand and all the falling down is slowly solving the eel issue, because I think it's reduced to a fraction in the lake, which is right, but the faggot is growing in a terrible way. I don't want anyone to feel the feeling of an animal around 30 kilos that's been drifting for a day or two with, say, three or four bleeps on its back on the water, trying to get it out so that people don't have, say, disgust around. It's a very, very harsh thing, because it's a very soft-meated thing that can make a terrible environment around you. It's okay as long as it's a piece; it's a problem if they get an infection that might turn this into a mass, because I don't think anyone even knows how much of it there is. There's a lot of them, they always die in the winter, they kind of come out in the spring, but sometimes you get stuck in and out of a specimen, and unfortunately, they get bigger. So somewhere they're going to reach the line that's their way of life. So I think that this proposal is overall in order. I also agree that it makes clear what the fishman and what he can't do, because there is a lot of debate about what rules and how he can control, what he can apply, how he can act. This must be made clear, because it was certainly-it was not quite all right, it gave rise to many arguments, but rather I say how far you can go from the stick now, what you can do and what you can do. I am not boring my fellow Members because not everyone is doing this, but I think it is the right thing to do when it is legally right. Now, whether or not you have to file a catch log, I usually do. Rather, it would be in the interests or the interests of the water management association itself to see at least what the catch is. So it wasn't a useless thing to do, but I think that's why no one's rejecting this law because they don't have to. It is also true that it was possible to play this game - so from now on, now that someone has handed it in and bought another ticket elsewhere - because the records were not matched. I think the catch log would be of some significance. So I think that we are now beyond the problems caused by the late enforcement order of the law that the forms and other forms were not ready in time. This is a problem - it seems to me - this year was no longer the case, and the associations were able to prepare for it. What I have already indicated to the Secretary of State in this case is that there are a lot of water areas this year's contract expires; this is going to be a serious debate. So you have to see this because, after this has become a business somewhere, and we also see that private lakes are dynamically spreading, fortunately, this also has an impact on rural tourism, because it now, combined with accommodation, offers considerable opportunities for small settlements if such lakes are established on their border. However, I also think that this cannot be drawn up for long, so we must start these proposals at some point, because at the end of the year, these water treatment options will cease. Here I very much hope that there will be real professional aspects, and so far there has been such a great debate, I think, that there has not been. There were battles in large waters, see Lake Tisza or even Lake Venice or other, and there is no way to get away with it, because there are serious interests in the face here, and generally not on a political basis - as I listened to when I had a little more influence on it - but rather on the basis of who represents a greater lobbying power at some level. But I'm telling you, it wasn't always political, political, that there were debates on this issue. I see these as the most important cases, and the bill answers a lot of things. There's obviously a two-thirds part of that. Here, it is supposed to be possible, obviously, to make a prestige of whether or not two thirds of the government will have it now, but I do not think that this law should be practiced, at least we will not be likely to do so. So I propose to my fellow Members that we support and adopt this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-17-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr László Földi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In the last few weeks, in the months, the management of several local fishing associations has asked me when there will be fishing, fishing in Parliament. I am very pleased that this draft law has come before us, because this draft law states that the fish stocks of Hungary's fish management water areas are a national treasure - I think it is very important - and it is a natural value and an important economic resource that society must protect and its exploitation must be designed and implemented in terms of sustainability, in order to promote natural renewal. Perhaps one of the most important elements of the new law is that it has put fishing, which is a recreational activity that is declared, before fishing. [[19.30]] Fishing is a priority in the management of natural waters. The development of fishing, fishing and fishing tourism is an opportunity in almost all areas of our country. With the new legislative framework, the former spoil-centric regulation has been reversed. It will now be required that all activities in the fish management water area, not only fishing and fishing, should be carried out in such a way as to enable or impede the survival and natural renewal of fish stocks. The new regulation also provides for the protection of wintering and breeding sites for fish. In addition, it applies new bans and size limits, taking into account the principles of precautionary and sustainability. Of course, the new provision that lets many fish grow up in the waters is worthless if we do not ensure that they are protected. The new legislative background has therefore been strengthened in this regard. Improving the effectiveness of fisheries surveillance, increasing the number of fisheries guards and creating the possibility of public fisheries surveillance will help preserve valuable fish stocks. As before me, Mr State Secretary, my fellow Members have mentioned, I will not analyse it separately, but the concept of fishing and fishing is also clarified by the draft. It is important for us that it requires that the municipalities may waive their right to fish only for the benefit of the State, that the rights previously transferred to others will also be transferred to the State after the contracts have expired. We consider it important that the new provision ensures the creation of a part of the legislation that gives rise to the sanctioning activity of the fish management authority. Thus, the discretion of imposing a fishing and conservation penalty and the possibility of not imposing a fine will be incorporated into the law. On behalf of the KDNP faction, I highly recommend to this House that you support the bill and confirm it with your vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-17-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. I am not surprised that we will probably be able to support this proposal, since we also supported the original law. It was certainly a step forward from the past, and it is, above all, for us, what has already been said here, so that in our natural waters we regard recreational service as the primary method of exploitation and not fishing or any other way. So this is further reinforced by the current amendment, so forward-looking and we will support it. I am also glad that the definition of fishing and fishing changes in this way, and I do not want to go into more detail. However, this amendment does not give enough impetus to the fact that fishing tourism in Hungary is a very small driving sector, I can say. For there would be paradise conditions for lovers of fishing tourism all over the world, and there are also countries that have been able to exploit this much more with much weaker abilities. Unfortunately, this legislation does not point in that direction or take large enough steps in this direction. A lot of jobs could be created in rural areas based on this, which would help areas where there is currently the greatest shortage of jobs locally. I am also sorry that there is not enough emphasis on spawning sites either on the amendment, nor on the original draft. For the fish, this is the alpha and omega of the whole case, that if there is a sufficient quality and quantity of spawning ground for the particular species, it may not need as much protection as it would otherwise be. After all, it is able to lay a quantity of eggs, and if the young have the right living space in the initial period, they can survive in quantities that are not able to be destroyed or caught from our natural waters. In this way, we would like to draw attention to the need to place greater emphasis on this. And then we moved to a narrower area, my narrower country, the area of the Szigetköz, which is the main problem. The Szigetköz was one of the main sites of the sturgeons, which used to come up from the Black Sea, and this almost completely ceased by destroying the Szigetköz, on the one hand, and the Iron Gate is an insurmountable barrier for them. Here, too, I would like to make a sign, not close to this law, but to Mr Secretary of State, that there have been previous promises that there will be some kind of agreement with our southern neighbours on this, and that there may also be European Union money for the passage of the Iron Gate for the sturgeon. After all, the fact that we are now relocating some species to the Szigetköz in a semi-pre-trained form is certainly beneficial, but in the long term it is not a sustainable process if we do not ensure this passage. I saw such extreme, I think, perhaps North American examples, where small elevators carried the fish that wanted to be arched up to the level of one, virtually one by one the photocell detected when the animal arrived and elevatored it to the upper river. Obviously that is not what I'm talking about, and I know that we're not here, but if you take an economically insignificant species of fish so seriously, we couldn't even get on much more serious issues here, with us, to at least establish a partnership on this issue with our neighbours. But it also includes the question of Bős-Nagymaros, because at Szigetköz, I think it would be worth arguing whether it was worth starting this project at the time, but that it should not have been stopped in 90-95 percent readiness, and that this is the biggest crime of modern-day Hungary, I am quite sure, and this is not only my claim, but a lot of experts who know the subject, and this is closely linked to the issue of inter island fish shortage. But I know that this does not need to be detailed or discussed, resolved, so I wouldn't go any further. At the same time, I would like to ask you that there was a project in 2010 within the scope of the portfolio - or at least it was planned and beyond the planning processes - namely that Cape Management, as an ancient land use and water use method, would have been modelled in a mini in the region of Fehértó, Kóny, I understand. By hunting down Mr Ángyán State Secretary, this project also ceased and stopped, while I do not think that this is a party political issue. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs intervenes.]] It would have been good to continue, but if Mr Secretary of State could have said encouraging words as to whether this forward-looking initiative could continue in the future, I would have thanked him and I know that it is not primarily a question of fishing or fishing, but it is closely linked, since the abundance of our country's fish was, to a large extent, given that it was a widespread form of farming in the lowland areas. It would also be good for the legislation to address the debate, question and tension of indigenous and invasive species. I am thinking, of course, of the species of fish, because that is what we are discussing here. I know it is a difficult question and an expensive question to answer how to stop or slow down the spread of various invasive species, but it is important to answer these questions, because our natural waters are also facing brutal changes in this area. It's much worse than crabs or shellfish. I walk around a lot in nature whenever I can, have some free time, then I'm out. I haven't found a native species of crab in the last six years in any type of water, I've seen it, I've caught it. So this, too, I think, is quite talkative, and it would also be good to find a solution to that. By the way, this is not just a Hungarian problem, it is obviously affecting Europe as a whole. There are several directions for the continuous occupation of our natural waters. We have already talked about the expiry of the lease on water surfaces, and I know that it should not be dealt with in the framework of this legislation, but I would like to make it clear that I am asking for Fidesz's sake, and we even demand that there should not be any political smell of the whole story that we can see in public lands. I don't think it's in either of our interests, because the use of water should be about much more than who might win these applications. I'm just saying this in a prerogative, because if the same approach will prevail in this area, which is in the state lands, then there will be serious problems, and from a political and professional point of view, I promise you that they will not come out well, at least we will be working to prove that these waters are not in the right hands. [[19.40]] I wanted to add these to the present draft. Like I said, we can support it on the whole. Maybe it's the 3rd. I would also like to ask you if this is a step backwards because of the protection of acquired rights, at least in my view, and whether there could not be enough justification for the conservation of genetic resources in the public interest of the fish management water area, the enforcement of conservation interests, the enforcement of national tourism interests of national importance for education and research purposes. I think these are strong arguments that stand up to the protection of acquired rights, and I call on the legislator to reconsider. Article 8 I would also like to make a comment on whether the transfer of a public fishing ticket could not be modified in such a way that, let us say, this may be possible for a young person within the family, even in order to promote a generational change in this area, and I believe that this would be an acceptable gesture for young people. On this subject, too, I would like to ask you to add a point (e) to point 41. § which was born for the sake of the blind and weak-sighted. I don't know, I know a lot of anglers, but I don't know a blind and weak-sighted fishing colleague or companion, but that's probably my flaw. At the same time, I propose that, if there is such a concession, which I am pleased with and in any case in favour of it, it might be possible to extend it to people with disabilities, and I believe that we would find someone who could thank and really appreciate this amendment in practice. At the time of the increase in the age limit, we agreed, even at the debate of the original law, whether this age range of up to 3-15 years is appropriate. It may be worth considering that this could be extended to 18 years of age. On the other hand, what Commissioner Jobbik is going to propose an amendment is that I would like to include our 40 +, for men, in the framework of this legislation as well, that is to say, in the case of men and women who have completed 40 years of employment, I would like to propose that they be exempted from the public fishing ticket fee. So I would like to put this to the attention of Mr. Secretary of State. [[Zoltán Pride: A lot of money!]] I believe that this is a remarkable amendment proposal and it is worth drawing attention to it now. Article 16 is replaced by the following: I would like to add a single point (d) to which I would like to add, and here I would like to attempt the establishment of spawning sites, namely that these points of the paragraph... - at the time of the specified revenue, the Minister can use it to do the following, and I would add this to the creation of a certain breeding ground. I am pleased that there are currently European Union proposals in this area, even though not specifically mentioned, but in practice, some projects will result in the creation of spawning sites, but this is very little. In order for Hungarian natural water to return to a multitude of sustainable living spaces for indigenous species, much more effort and financial effort are required. That is what I wanted to say, Mr Secretary of State, and I hope that a number of our amendments will, however, win your approval and you will achieve your vote, because they will enable us to turn fishing into an even more public use and even more enjoyable hobby and recreational activity for more people. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-17-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2015-03-17-257	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, forgive me if I've been careless. The Hunting and Wildlife Law has clearly shown that this is a kind of firefighter's work and that later it will be a comprehensive regulation. I understand that this is now the comprehensive regulation in fisheries and fisheries management. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: No.]] This is only important because, by reviewing the legislation, I believe that the house rules prohibit the submission of amendments which are not open at the moment, even though there are a number of other provisions which would be justified in improving the amendment. That's what I wanted to talk to you about. Let me draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that, in many cases, the current regulation is causing serious problems when it comes to catching fish for research purposes. Technically, the enforcement law is 45. It does not include, for example, a permit to catch fish for research purposes, and therefore, if this place of legislation is interpreted in a narrow sense, this would be considered an unjustified fishery at the moment, since it takes out the fish. In the same way, for example, there are problems in addition to the qualification of a fisherman, where he connects it with the agricultural and forestry operator, which he would certainly have wanted to report an. If I may, Mr Secretary of State, I do not hold this up, because we are not having a detailed debate here, but I would appreciate it if I could pass on these proposals, which have been raised in this regard, because almost all of them are proposals that are of a better purpose, since in many cases they would serve practically lifelikeness. So, for example, it is now mandatory to send a simplified report within 30 days of the last research day. Most researchers say that this is unfulfilled, because during the period during which the research is conducted, the data is recorded on a tape recorder or otherwise, it is processed in the winter, and this is usually the case. So I will send these over then, and I will not burden Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Members with these. Overall, I would like to say that a significant part of the legislative amendment is something that can be supported, although I would like to say that for our part we have concerns about how productive this very fishing-centred regulation is in the long term in order to preserve Hungary's fish fauna. My proud fellow Member has already mentioned this. Indeed, I would certainly try to create opportunities for traditional fishing methods, so I am not talking about the use of large, wide guide nets, meslances or such. Traditional fishing methods, fishing with nets, which in many natural waters meant a virtually extensive livelihood for each family, would be useful in creating these again. My fellow Member, Haughty, also mentioned what I was going to say. I do not know Balaton that well, but it is also a problem there, but a significant part of the natural waters, now in the area of Lake Tisza, there is fishing exploitation only, the fishing use of large plankton eaters raises problems, so it is simply not possible to take out the quantity normally by regular means. In such cases, it would certainly be necessary to consider increasing the use of indigenous fish fauna for sport purposes, while in such consumption or in any commercial context such a feature should be highlighted, in order to create the possibility of reducing adventive species. The fishing community will certainly welcome this amendment to the legislation on fish management and the protection of fish. We're gonna have to chew this a little bit more, so I can't tell you what our faction is saying right now. The Committee on Sustainable Development will be negotiating on Monday in the detailed debate, and by then there will be an idea that it is possible that the way to support this will be opened up, but at some points we may ask for changes in other areas, in other sections, that the government might consider putting it forward. Obviously, it is not productive for me to bring this up, so we know about the behaviour of our fellow Members, but perhaps the government can consider the merits of these. We will continue in the detailed debate, and we will look at the possibilities of this, and I would like to advise you to study Hungary's prehistoric occupations. Hermann Otto was recently remembered here by this House. However, we will certainly have to waste more opportunities to maintain fishing and traditional fishing methods. And a last-minute thought, mentioned by my fellow Member of Hungary, is very, very important. Today we had an interesting dialogue, and we agreed on most of the issues concerning the Wildlife Law. If we try to put these two systems, parts of fish management and wildlife management in an analogy, it is clear and obvious that a wild farmer must pursue a continuous habitat development and habitat conservation effort in order to achieve success. It would be good if regulation helped and encouraged to provide incentives for fishermen and fishermen for sports fishing purposes, which would provide the best possible opportunities for the development of spawning sites or for the maintenance of habitats, because I do believe that in many areas there would be an economic opportunity, since the use for sport cannot be regarded as loss-making in normal, larger water spaces. [[19.50]] Our party, our country and our faction will continue to examine this legislation. We don't see anything more serious about him. As I say, in terms of perspective, we would change it a little, but the other changes will be enough. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-17-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We've finished the keynote speech. It would now be possible for independent representatives to speak if they were independent in the room. Thus, a two-minute speech is possible. Mr László György Lukács, from the Jobbik Group, is next. Here you go.
u2015-03-17-259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I listened to the Secretary of State's exposé and the excellent speech and words. It seemed to me that you didn't speak, that you didn't deserve the credit for creating this legislation, and perhaps not for the preparatory department. I, indeed, suspect Szabolcs Fazekas, the short-standing fish commissioner behind this fine-made legislation. At the beginning of the debate, it would certainly be worth explaining what work Szabolcs Fazekas did in the area, whether the Commissioner had a job in this area, or whether he was fishing only in confusion. But we can also put the question - which is best suited to the two-minute style - as to whether Bitay Márton Örs is playing the music of the fish commissioner. I think you can answer that very briefly. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-260	I can speak to MEP Zoltán Magyar when he applies for a proper speech. Thank you very much. Here you go.
u2015-03-17-261	Thank you, Mr. President, I just forgot one thing. Speaking of fish and fishing, we should also avoid the fact that farms could use a legislative amendment, at least many of them have serious problems both on the market side and on the side of applications. They have long demanded the changes that are on your desk, Mr. Secretary, because they regularly send their problems to the wallet. I would add that it would be potentially a very great opportunity in farms, since we can see the processes around the seas, we can see that the oceans are practically exhausted because of overfishing. The Hungarian fish will grow in value in this respect, and hopefully the government will finally give them the opportunity to develop and mechanize farms, but the lack of adequate vocational training is also a major problem for them. I would like to comment on it only in parentheses, and I would like to ask the question: when can we expect to see legislation dealing with farm problems, because it is a serious, long-standing sector, which has once been a significant part of Hungarian agriculture, and today it is just a small stepchild, and it has been waiting for years for someone to finally pay attention to its problems. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. Congressman Zsolt Egyed, for a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-263	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I, too, as a fisherman, say that the bill is forward-looking. I believe that a decade's debate on fishing versus fishing can be addressed here. My fellow Member Sallai has already said that fishing in Hungary has a historical tradition, that is true. [[Zoltán Pride: That's what I said!]] It has a historical tradition, yes, but I think that perhaps we can count the number of people who actually live on this type of fishing on one hand. On the other hand, there is a 300,000 - year - old camp that practices sports fishing for rest. Under the law of great numbers, these people must in any way be able to continue this hobby, this rest exercise, in calm conditions. With regard to overfishing and other concerns, I believe that a balance can be struck here too. Basically, all you have to do is leave the fish's established or natural spawning site to people simply in peace, and then there will be an inexhaustible growth of fish in our waters. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there have been very strange anomalies in our natural waters and also in our commercially operated fish ponds, which are still waiting for a solution. For example, there was a case in Borsod County where there was a lake, where the water supply was obviously owned by the Hungarian State, the bed, so the land was owned by a private individual, the part of the coast was owned by the municipality, and the right to fish belonged to a fourth person. I think anyone who can make any progress in this situation is a magician. These situations, these problems, must be resolved. I also said on the proposal for a law on the forest, and here I say that I think supervision is very important. I believe that my fellow Christian Democrat also referred to the need to expand the fishing service. I would like to draw attention to the need not only for lakes and larger rivers. Now I'm gonna talk home again, for my example, because our most valuable fish are being stolen by mass. Now I am referring to those mountain streams - thank God I live in such an area, in such an environment - where there is still plenty of trout in mountain streams, but do not know by what means, by which means these animals should be gathered. On the other hand, one of the most important tasks of the Fisherman's Service is to prevent hallops, one of the most effective methods of which is to extract fish from the remaining Kubikgöds and others after the floods of the rivers. I don't think that's an honorable act either. But I think that, with proper legislation and proper supervision, this shameful activity can also be removed. Overall, this is what I wanted to say about this proposal. This bill is eligible for the Jobbik Hungary Movement. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. Again, I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. As I see from the preparations, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr Bitay, who will respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-17-265	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, It is fitting that, at the end of the debate, the Secretary of State will respond to the points raised, even after late hours. Zoltán Grumpy mentioned that he would squeeze out meat fishing. I agree with him, but I think that the rules that have been discussed here are that he should not be brought home above a certain size, but that he should be allowed to return, the prohibition of this by law is unviable, because I cannot control it. There are basic fishing ethics rules here, and they should be put more emphasis on them. I mentioned Balaton in invasive alien species; this was also mentioned with Congressman Róbert Sallai Benedek, and, if I recall correctly, the problem of busa with Zoltán Magyar. The problem is not that very large pieces of fish can be found in the water - unfortunately, in a certain part dead - but rather that it is interesting to find small Bushes in the water, when, according to the current state of science, this fish does not reproduce in Lake Balaton. But I will tell you the answer, Congressman: it is possible to find that water catchment areas, fishing surfaces, have been hired foolishly, and are legally classified as reservoirs. [[20.00]] They are directly connected to the water of Lake Balaton, and in these reservoirs they raise busa. I'm living with my suspicions, based on my research, that there might be a bug buried here somewhere - to try to put it in style. Thank you very much, Mr Zoltán Magyar, for your support, Mr Zoltán Gőgös, also thank you for your support. I'm not talking about fishing tourism anymore. We're in the same boat. Obviously, we have debates on how we should progress, but the intention is clear. He mentioned that there could be an excess in the cessation of fishing in natural waters, at least if I understood what he was saying correctly. I wish. I wish we could say that this is a problem. If you didn't say that, then I apologize. Then tell me what I misunderstood about this matter. The economic significance, the partnership with the neighbours. Well, here we could go back to history, the flow of river basins and water back to the seas, what a connection there was, and what a cause and effect this is in connection with one of the saddest tragedies in Hungarian history. Indeed, we must now seek international solutions to this problem. It was an interesting statement you made about Bős-Nagymaros, but I respect your opinion. I don't agree with him. With regard to the reduction of invasive species, he mentioned that he can catch very little cancer. Don't touch me, because most of them are protected, and you don't touch them by any chance, so there won't be any problems. Article 3 In relation to the rights acquired, my short answer is no. To make the transfer of the fishing ticket within the family free of charge: under the age of 15. No awards. I don't think it's a bad idea to write it down, but it's free under the age of 15, so there's no particular reason for that. The blind and weak-sighted came to us with this need. We've accepted it, we've accepted it, it's a good idea for people with disabilities. We can discuss this in an amending proposal. In his later comment, he indicated the question of fish farming and how Hungarian fish can be supported. In particular, these grants must be financial aid, with HOP, MAHOP applications to move forward. There's a reason, there's a place. In Salzburg, I had the pleasure of getting information from regional and federal leaders at a hunting and fishing exhibition. It was very interesting that a large part of their freshwater fish imports go from the Czech Republic to Austria, while we are talking about the same fish stocks. So I'm seeing plenty of progress here, too. The creation of a spawning site has already been mentioned, which is already included in the original law, not here, in the amendment of what kind of support it may have. Congressman Róbert Benedek Sallai also mentioned fishing because there are segments there that would be worth supporting. Once again, I would like to stress that the taxation of small-handed fishing is included, that it may be possible, and I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that organic fishing can also be part of it, which is also a taxative one. We are talking only about commercial, large-scale fishing. It's a comprehensive regulation, isn't it? I hesitated when he said that because it's not comprehensive, but it is. The comprehensive regulation was the law itself in 2013, that is the clarification of this. Mr Zsolt Egyed also mentioned the issues relating to fishing, so that we should be careful not to accidentally spill the child with the bath water. I hope that's what I was able to say to you. Meder, dam system, fishing rights are in the hands of different persons. It's just foam on the cake, and I can give you an example where there's a fourth person with the right to reserve the EU application. Well, it's a complicated world. These must be carried out through the new application system. But I'm sure I'd like to make it clear that we're talking about farming entitlements here. So the desire to have a nice, quiet debate where everyone accepts the result is certainly not going to happen. Not even because there are such conditions. In the mountain creek, fish are caught illegally and by what methods. We know the situation. For the moment, I think that perhaps you too will have some peace with the fact that the previous amendment to the Criminal Code is trying to do something about these situations. Please note that here, as in the forest, we can catch it somewhere more in terms of trade. We can't put fishmen within a hundred yards, can we? Mr László Lukács' interesting professional contribution, and thank you very much. I hope, however, that we will have deeper professional debates, and I hope that it is rather the text of the law that arouses your interest. I am curious to see that if something is wrong, you can support it with amendments. I would like to reassure you that every administrative apparatus of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is involved in the work, has been used, has worked hard on the proposal; while the Commissioner was part of the team, of course, he was involved in this work. And a lot of others. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you for the opportunity. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-17-266	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The deadline for submitting the amendments is at 16.00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. He applied for a post-meeting speech from Jobbik's group, "How much is enough?" Member László György Lukács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-267	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, How much is enough and how much is needed or what is good is perhaps one of the most recent and hottest topics of recent times. It is one of the topics on the agenda at all times. I also brought it in, it is true, only as a matter of the agenda, because Jobbik believes that health care, health issues, have their place here in the walls of the House, and they have to appear more and more. We are working on bringing in all topics, including, in particular, medical wages and not only medical wages, but also the wages of all health workers. After all, this issue is a very interesting catalyst and embodying the problem that is a heating element of medical emigration. After all, everyone knows that we are dealing with a very serious, massive medical emigration, which is virtually the same number of doctors and health workers who have been issued. The historic starting point is very simple: in this, too, 1990 and the so-called period of regime change, when wages slipped and were unable to follow market conditions, a general economic recession, devalued, was overcome, and this was in itself placed on the health sector. However, the present state is a little clearer, but not a bit more exhilarating. The first way to get to know the current state is to look at the legislative provisions. You have to look at it, and it's a way to get clean about what forms of employment you can employ doctors and health workers. What we see in this area is that there is also no uniform regulation, there is a much more complicated situation, as it is possible to employ a health worker as a self-employed, a member of a social enterprise, but it can be a public servant, a civil servant, or a church person, or it can be a public service or employment. So there's an extremely wide spectrum that's going through this. But everyone knows I care about who's got what in their pockets. So it's safe to say what's in their pockets, what's in their pockets. First of all, residents are worth watching. Residents on the payroll say it's the KT. according to the public servant pay table, in which their gross salary of HUF 129 500 is almost doubled, if possible with the Markusovszky grant. [[20.10]] This is how the absurd situation can arise, however, that the doctor who is about to become a doctor at the end of the residency years, but who is not yet a medical resident, receives almost twice as much as the doctor who is already working for the hospital. But every miracle lasts for three days, they say that it is also the Canaan of residents, if you will, that this miserable Canaan lasts only three days, because as soon as they move to the medical profession, their salary will drop. The start-up doctors' wages are no better, they also receive their salary on a pay sign, and they start from a gross amount of virtually HUF 134-175,000 and, believe it or not, practically HUF 395 thousand gross salary can not be reached in this work after 40 years of employment. And how significant or how much trouble this is in this sector, it is very well illustrated by a professional material of the Institute of Directions, which deals with foreign wages, and in which the survey of the German hospital association is presented. Of course, I'll tell you this in a minute, but it's okay to stop with health workers who are much less spoken about, they're nurses, rescue workers, whose wages no one cares about, how much they can earn. They also earn their wages on the basis of a payroll, and there is almost no way that they can achieve a higher amount after many decades of experience than an incredibly low gross amount of HUF 210,000. And how international wages stand, let's see if it's enough or how much is enough. German, Austrian, English and Swedish samples were taken and compared by the Institute of Directions, and it is possible to find that the starting doctor starts his salary at 560,000 forints in brother-in-laws, starting from 628 thousand forints in England, while the specialists have a salary of HUF 1 million 800 thousand in brother-in-laws, and HUF 3 million 400 thousand in the UK. So there's a big difference. And what the solution could be, and the government is trying to do it, and obviously not enough: we need to start a career model that the government has put off until now. In the career model, not only doctors but also other health workers have to settle their salaries and wages. Jobbik has been committed to starting the career only by increasing resources and increasing spending, since starting a career could show how much is really enough and how much we can keep our doctors and health workers at home. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. Also from the Jobbik Group, MEP Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech after the agenda:. on the changes in the fire protection rules. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! There have been major changes in the field of fire protection rules, and the lack of information and information on the part of those involved is so worrying that I felt it was absolutely important to share this with you here in the House. The exact change of legislation says:. Unless otherwise specified in the legislation, the outdoor burning of waste generated in connection with standing vegetation, crop production and the use of interior property is prohibited. After all, the entry into force of the legislation has already affected the start of garden work, so people cannot be sufficiently informed about the new regulation. The question is what alternatives are offered by the legislator to dispose of green waste. What was the reason for the regulation at all? Does open-air combustion bring pollutants into the air? Is there a high risk of unwanted fire? I'll suggest some alternatives. If the incineration of dried green waste is completely excluded, the solution can only be if the legislator ensures the regular and free transport of green waste. Despite efforts, some of the population were not eco-disciplined and the designated green waste yards were also used as landfills. Of course, this could be solved by continuous guarding, which is expensive, but it would probably pay off, because it would not have to be taken away from the houses at large costs, but it would be possible to do so from a place and with a less frequent schedule. An adequate number of bio-waste treatment plants and their conditions are also worth considering. In certain areas, twice a year - in the autumn and in the spring - the supplier has already delivered green waste free of charge, but these two times a year are not sufficient or the form of transport has not been developed. In the absence of a calming solution, many choose to eradicate vegetation producing green waste, which, let's face it, is not ecologically desirable. Composting's on. The most important disadvantage is that there is no adequate expertise. It's not composting to collect the green waste at the end of the garden into a pile. Time, equipment and space-intensive, current longer-term green waste should be disposed of. What about the resulting compost? In my opinion, composting can be a kind of solution, but it must be accompanied by appropriate expertise. By the way, there is no way that internal combustion would bring more polluting, toxic substances into the air, such as the remaining thousand-year-old buses of the BKV in Budapest or the terrible size of vehicle traffic. We might as well ban traffic. Dear townspeople and legislators! I suggest you visit the countryside, where, despite the fire, the air is cleaner than in the busiest cities. The use of mixed-fired boilers is thus also questionable. Moreover, the legislator explicitly supports the installation of biomass-fired boilers on other platforms. In my opinion, the amount of toxic material from vegetable waste burned at the end of the garden is overdimensioned. What's the difference between this fire and, say, the smoke that went through the chimney? What difference does it make if I burn the branch at the end of the garden or throw it in the biomass boiler and release the toxic substances through the chimney? On a cold winter day in small settlements, villages where residents are heated with mixed fuel boilers and stoves, smoke can be detected even without certain instruments. But we're gonna ban the heating? Speaking of which, what about campfires, bacon barbecues, scones? Are these also banned? Or will it be possible to obtain environmentally friendly fuels for these purposes? So these questions, I think, well show that the issue was not thought out, and at least a serious thought, a joint social consultation should have prevented the creation of such legislation, because it makes the lives of countless people difficult, and, as I said, the most serious problem is that these people do not have the right information about it. Despite the alternatives, I think that the regulation would like to regulate something and eliminate it with a single feather stroke in Hungary, which has centuries of tradition. I am convinced that the well-informed people have already acted carefully in the field of fire, and who has not had a good feeling, will not be discouraged by the change in this legislation from its previous bad behaviour. So I ask the government to consider this change. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-17-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Mihály Witzmann also came forward from the Fidesz Group to address the issue of extreme water movements and other environmental impacts arising from climate change at Lake Balaton. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-17-271	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I would like to draw attention to the increasingly unpredictable effects of climate change in the catchment area of Lake Balaton. In the past 15-20 years, changes in the water movement, climate and ecosystem of Lake Balaton have been increasing. The signs of climate change are reflected in the hydrometeorological conditions of Lake Balaton. According to experts, there is a change in atmospheric circulation due to climate change, whose trends suggest that an increasing frequency of extreme weather situations should be anticipated in the future. Balaton is the only hydrographic and geographical unit in Hungary that is located from the source to the outflow in Hungary. The Balaton is the most sensitive to the quality and quantity of the flowing waters. This is also noticeable in my constituency, where from Balatonvilágos to Balatonszemes there are eight settlements located directly on the southern shore of Lake Balaton. The water level of the lake is regulated at the seat of my constituency in Siófok, so I have experienced the extreme weather and water conditions in the region several times myself. However, Lake Balaton has a unique tourist and recreational role, and its economic and social importance is also invaluable. That is why I believe that, in addition to raising awareness, it is an extremely important task for the region of Lake Balaton and its natural effects to be comprehensively examined and to take the necessary measures in this regard. [[20.20]] At the time, the water management of Lake Balaton was based on a practice developed under much more balanced weather conditions. Overall, the engineering methods used in the last hundred years offered an appropriate solution for regulating the water level of Lake Balaton. The Sió lock's adjustment to the current water level generally proved to be sufficient, but the difficulties encountered so far were increasingly frequent during the very low water level in 2003, the flood in 2010, and the subsequent dry period, or, for example, the dry year 2011 and the repeated flood in 2014. I would also like to stress, in view of the sudden natural disaster on the weekend of 13-14 September 2014, due to a significant rainfall, that climate change has already clearly occurred and that we need to make proposals for solutions in order to deal with it quickly and effectively. As I indicated in my letter in September 2014 to the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Interior, Siófok had about 100 millimeters of precipitation in four hours at this time in mid-September. Siófok and its surroundings, therefore, had more than three months of precipitation in less than a week. In addition to Siófok, 21 settlements in my constituency indicated that the damage caused by the exceptional weather exceeded HUF 100 million. Now, ladies and gentlemen, what is this if it is not extreme climate change? Fortunately, we can now say that, thanks to significant government assistance and the rapid response of the local authorities concerned, recovery works have already started in most places and have been completed. In my opinion, the solution to such meteorological extremes would greatly help to increase the permeability of the Sió channel. However, this would require significant renovation or reinforcement of the canal so as not to jeopardise nearby agricultural land by increasing the yield of water. Undoubtedly, there is a need to increase the capacity to discharge water, but this alone does not provide a definitive solution to extreme floods, even less to dry periods. I find it a further problem and difficulty that the unified water catchment area of Lake Balaton belongs to three separate water professional organisations. The said area is divided between the West-Transdanubian, South-Transdanubian and Central-Transdanubian water directorates. Balaton is a hydrographic, meteorological, ecological system, and I think, in many respects, it must be seen as a complex, complex system from a social point of view. The natural border of the Balaton area is the entire water catchment area of the lake, from the mouth of Zala to the upper part of the Sió canal. The water regulation of Lake Balaton and, in addition, the protection and management of its natural factors could be much more effective if the above system were to be treated as a complex unit. In the event of such organizational implementation, one person's owner and responsibility could be the largest connected natural unit in Hungary, Balaton, and the successful operation of the organization could significantly reduce the effects of climate change and better respond to natural disasters. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, it is safe to say that the time has come to pay much more attention to the environmental changes arising from climate change in Hungary and, among other things, in the region of Lake Balaton. To do this, I call on all of you to contribute and to play an active role in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-17-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that you have withdrawn the opposition from the agenda by Mrs Márta Demeter. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda, and I thank you for your day-to-day work. Thank you for keeping the record, thank you for the work of the staff of the Parliamentary Office. I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00 a.m., that's what I'm hoping for. We'll resume our work tomorrow at 9:00. Thank you. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 8:23 p.m.]]
