u2015-11-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 24th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform the Honourable Parliament that János Herbst died in the 59th year of his life. János Herbst was a representative of the Fidesz faction between 1998 and 2002. He's got a mandate from Tolna County. He worked on the Tourism Committee, a subcommittee on medicinal and thermal tourism and castles, mansions and castles. His fellow Members loved him, respected him. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Minister Antal Rogán came forward. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-11-30-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the week, a summit of the leaders of the European Union and the Heads of State or Government of the Member States and the leaders of Turkey took place in Brussels. Before the Turkish-EU summit Prime Minister Viktor Orbán met with the group leaders. Thank you very much to the Group leaders for being able to attend this meeting, and I would like to express my special regret that the Hungarian Socialist Party could not be represented at this meeting because of the congress. At the meeting, Viktor Orbán made it clear that Hungary has fundamental interests in relation to the agreement between Turkey and the European Union, there are points that we can support in the draft, and there are some that we cannot support. I would like to point out that we have also said on the prospectus that the humanitarian aid that the European Union intends to provide to Turkey in order to provide them in the refugee camps in Turkey will certainly meet the original Hungarian objectives. After all, Hungary has represented that peace in Syria plays an important role in tackling the immigration problem, and until this is achieved, these people should not be taken away from their homeland, but should support the education of the children in the camps, ensure that they can survive this period and then relocate to Syria and allow the reconstruction of the country there. Therefore, Hungary has, of course, supported humanitarian aid of EUR 3 billion, of which Hungary will receive EUR 18 million over the next two years. The faction leaders have been informed of this in advance. We supported closer relations between the European Union and Turkey, as Turkey has always been an important strategic partner for Hungary in recent years, and we believe that this should also be the case for the European Union. However, in the context of the Turkish-EU agreement, a very serious threat emerged: the addition of a mandatory resettlement quota is the introduction of a new mandatory allocation quota for those admitted from Turkey. The Visegrád Four, together with Hungary, lobbied intensively in order not to decide on another forced resettlement. I would like to inform my fellow Members that this has been achieved. The text of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, prepared by the major powers, has been adapted to include a sentence that clearly states that this agreement is not part of the fact that migrants transferred from Turkey can be divided by binding force between the European Union countries, so that, of course, they cannot be sent to Hungary. This is certainly a serious achievement, ladies and gentlemen, but this applies only to the Turkish quota. In the case of immigrants who have so far arrived in the European Union, and in the case of illegally admitted immigrants, this statement is not true, and there is still a risk of compulsory resettlement quotas. The Juncker formula is in place, Brussels continues to force the compulsory distribution of immigrants and forced resettlement within the European Union. Let us be clear, fellow Members. So far, over a million people have flown into Europe across borders only this year. This means that if the Juncker formula is applied, this means 15,000 people for Hungary, plus family members. Moreover, this inflow continues, because Hungary has consistently expressed its position before the Turkish-EU summit that at least as much money should be spent on protecting external borders, common borders as it has on humanitarian aid, but this proposal has not been supported in the preparation of the European Union summit. Thus, there is still no agreement on the protection of borders. The uncontrolled influx of immigrants continues and we can see that an illegal immigrant has entered Europe every 12 seconds south of our borders in the last month. Moreover, this wave does not decrease, but on the contrary: it seems to be growing. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that Hungary's experiences were similar. In November and December last year, when the Hungarian border was not yet closed, at least as many people came to the Union through Hungary in November and December as in the previous ten months. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, the Government of Hungary will continue to fight the quota. By 14 December - the Minister of Justice informed the Government about this - we will attack the compulsory resettlement quota at the European Court of Justice because we are bound by the result of the national consultation, the opinion of the Hungarian people rejecting the compulsory resettlement quota and the decision of the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-2	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, I ask the leaders of the political groups if they wish to take a two-minute speaking opportunity. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to President Zsolt Németh, Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-30-3	Dear Minister, Mr President, Dear House, I believe that in the migration war, Sunday's series of talks was an extremely important battle. And this battle seems to have been won by those who approach the issue like Hungary. There is a very important opportunity to reduce illegal migration in this agreement if Turkey actually complies with the agreement. Obviously, this is the fundamental question: will Turkey be able to close its borders? All of this, since it is highly uncertain whether Turkey will be able to close its borders, does not therefore relieve the European Union of the need to continue to place a very serious emphasis on the protection of the external borders, so the Turkish agreement does not remove the burden on the European Union to protect the external borders. [[13.10]] The EUR 3 billion, I believe, is in line with Hungary's robust capacity, which is EUR 18 million at a two-year level; this is about HUF 6 billion, so this is in line with our budgetary capacity in terms of the Hungarian budget. I would like to emphasise the issue of visa liberalisation: Turkey will be able to achieve visa liberalisation results in 2016. We trust that this will also apply to Ukraine. As far as the lack of a new resettlement quota is concerned, this is also a significant Hungarian success. It makes sense to represent the Hungarian position, it makes sense to build an alliance in this area, and of course there is a reason for further collecting signatures, because there is hope that the Hungarian position will succeed on quota issues. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] make it a European Union position. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-4	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-11-30-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The position of the MSZP is quite clear. It was also clear to the Minister, Mr President, before the meeting - to which we could not go. And our position is that nation-state solutions cannot stop the wave of refugees. Only with a common solution, and this is what is needed: common border police, border protection, common asylum procedure, common removal procedure, Dublin III. rather than creating a new regulation, and our position is consistently that the problem should be addressed at its root. That is why we welcome the agreement that the European Union has concluded with Turkey in Brussels. All these conditions, as long as they do not exist, the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support the automatic distribution system. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the need for the same common solution to counter the threat of terrorism, and to the need for a terrorist threat that cannot be brought together with the refugee crisis. There is also a need for a common solution, a common intelligence and joint response, a common organisation and a common regulation. This is served by the legislative proposal on the Criminal Code submitted by the Hungarian Socialist Party to combat the threat of terrorism. I would like to ask my fellow Members to put this on the agenda, and this will also set an example for the Member States of the European Union that there is a need for common rules on countering the threat of terrorism. That is our clear position, and that is what we stand for. Thank you for listening.
u2015-11-30-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Head of Group, LMP Group.
u2015-11-30-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I am pleased that, after the LMP first proposed in August-September that Turkey should be strengthened, I note that the situation of Lebanon and Jordan in maintaining refugee camps seems to be finally a substantive step on the part of the European Union. It is in the interests of Hungary with Turkey, which also takes into account the finite nature of Europe's security interests and integration capacities. We also need to see that the policy of the only steps does not lead to anything, for Hungary the problem is already within the fence. So it is not the fence and the quota that is now the real question, the question is whether the European Union is able to distinguish refugees, economic immigrants and people preparing for terrorist acts. As far as the Turkish approach is concerned, Honourable Parliament, during the Turkish-European negotiations it is not possible to go without a word in favour of gross violations of the Kurds' freedom of self-determination and to ignore the unclear role that Turkey plays in maintaining the Islamic State's supply routes. It is at least as important that the European Union renegotiates the migration agreements, for example, with Turkey. And one more thing: there is no peace in the neighbourhood of Europe, while the West, Turkey and Russia share a powerful playground in Syria. There is no peace until large arms companies, such as Lockheed Martin, have increased their profits by 24 percent in 2014, and weapons exports have increased by 14 percent over the last five years. This has to do with what is happening at the gates of Europe. We therefore need to draw attention to the fact that the Union is very far from solving the current crisis, this migration crisis is increasing global imbalances, and as long as global imbalances are growing, no one can be safe in Europe. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-8	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your information. We very much welcome the agreement concluded between the European Union and Turkey. Here we have recently said, following similar ministerial information, that Turkey really needs to be agreed on this issue and in dealing with the migration crisis. At the same time, it is more than strange that, while we are negotiating with Turkey on how Turkey should protect its own borders, which is indeed in the interest of all of us, the European Union is unable to defend its common borders, the borders of the European Union, after six months. There is still no common EU strategy on how to protect our continent from climate change. Therefore, Hungary and each nation state must take this issue into their own hands. Jobbik stressed that a border lock was necessary to halt migration a year before the government entered the field of action. We are very pleased that the border closure has been built, and we should also start the establishment of the border closure at the Hungarian-Romanian border, because migration is now coming in those areas towards Hungary and Europe. As far as quota and deportation are concerned, it has been said here several times how important this collection of signatures, the national consultation, and since it has no binding force, so a completely pointless replacement act, we know that the government and Fidesz do well in this, but in the matter that would be truly binding, they do not dare to take action. Jobbik suggested that we amend the Constitution together, we had such a proposal. This was rejected by the Fidesz-KDNP majority, even though it would have been a proposal, an initiative that would really have enabled the government to act on the side of the Hungarian people, on the side of Hungarian society in the European Union, and together it would have been able to represent the elimination of quotas and deportations together. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group, has made a statement. I give you the floor.
u2015-11-30-11	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Dear House, We Christian Democrats consider the EU-Turkey summit on immigration on Sunday to be crucial because it can fundamentally influence the migration invasion on Europe. At the same time, however, we regret that Europe has not started negotiations at this summit from a strong position, but has sat at a very defenceless table, because to date it has not been able to defend itself and its own borders. This situation is clearly the result of the hypocritical and procrastination policy in Brussels. In the last two weeks alone, European politicians have made 30 statements that they consider it important to protect the external borders, but they have made no concrete progress on this, unless Brussels is expecting the Turks to resolve the matter. We Christian Democrats believe that closing the Greek border would have been better than trusting in the goodwill of the Turks. Within the European Union, Hungary alone was able to make a decision on its defence, and today only Hungary can say that it stopped the wave of immigration by simultaneously complying with the relevant international legal conventions. Ladies and Gentlemen, We Christian Democrats are proud that, together with the Fidesz-KDNP regime, we have achieved some success in the area of compulsory resettlement quotas, because at the EU-Turkey Summit on Sunday, it was decided that the EU should continue its 400 000 quota. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You can't force any refugees on us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2015-11-30-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Bence Rétvári, Member, State Secretary, KDNP Group, submitted a pre-meeting address with the title Bourbons in Brussels. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-30-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Before I get to the issue of immigration, allow me to say a few sentences on an anniversary. By day, exactly 71 years ago, the Christian Democratic People's Party, the predecessor of the Christian Democratic People's Party, was founded in Budapest, in a small flat on Galamb Street, under the increasingly depressing repression of the Sagittarius regime. László Varga, our fellow Member, brother Varga Laci, had this in his apartment, not without precedent, because already during the summer, during the autumn, there were secret talks with the help of Vilmos Apor and others about the preparation of a Christian Democratic Party, but this is the day that we can tie KDNP's birthday to, since KDNP's statutes were presented exactly 71 years ago. The result was that László Varga was arrested and captured by the representatives of the Arrowed regime a few days later. At the same time, the movement that was launched at that time stood the test of time, since 71 years later we Christian democrats are still here in the Hungarian Parliament. At that time, a Democratic Party, which was socially sensitive and based on Christian foundations, was founded on the Catholic-social reform movement, which, in previous years and decades, was very, very much supported by society. And it was verified by the resistance activity that was done against both the Arrow dictatorship and the Communist dictatorship. The Democratic People's Party, the KDNP politicians, have all tried to deal with both repressive regimes in the same way. It is clear, therefore, that after 71 years we can say that there was a social need, there is and there will be a Christian democracy, this system of ideas has always had support and has always had a base. Few couples in today's Parliament can say that they existed 71 years ago. There is another party that had legal predecessors, because from 1919, from the establishment of the Communist Party in Hungary, we can lead back to the continuity of another parliamentary party, but I think they would rather be silent on the greater part of their history. However, we Christian democrats are proud of it, which is why we look forward to the future, because we believe that this system of ideas will continue to be represented in Parliament in 71 years. Now, I would like to turn to my second subject, the issue of immigration. The Bourbon Dynasty entered the history books like a royal house that learned nothing and forgot nothing. Now, when we look at the activities of the various peak bureaucrats in Brussels, we may have a few similar feelings, as the Bourbons also started from a political school or political practice of a previous era, from exercising power, and tried to carry it in a completely different era. That led to their fall at the time. As if this were the case here, as if the leaders of Brussels hadn't learned from the events of the past months, changed their position; and they didn't forget, because it seems that neither Hungary nor the Hungarian government nor the Hungarian Prime Minister have they forgotten that since 2010 they have spoken openly and honestly against the credo which many people have confessed in Brussels. We may remember that a few months ago the bureaucrats in Brussels spoke of modern-day migration as a wave of refugees coming, fleeing from persecution. Today, they are talking about Europe's need for a fresh workforce, the use of working hands in Europe, and the need for workers to survive the operation of the economy. What a difference in Brussels rhetoric in a few months! We are used to the fact that, apart from Viktor Orbán, there is no European politician who would say the same thing about immigration today as a year ago, but this is quite a turnaround for Brussels bureaucrats. At the same time, this is an infinitely sublime attitude and an insult to human dignity, as they stand with these people as if they were just talking tools. In previous decades, Western European companies have outsourcing their various companies, their sites, and they have taken them to the cheap labour force in the East, and now they seem to insourcing cheap labour, bringing them into Europe, thereby endangering the wage level of European workers, European workers, making it more difficult and expensive for them to live and make it more difficult for them to find their jobs. We believe that this is a violation of human dignity, because European leaders look only and exclusively at the interests of large European companies when they call workers' hands to Europe and on the basis of invitations and quotas. But they do not look at the social cost of this, which is in public security, which is in education, which is in the social field, which is in health care, or which, because of the emergence of parallel societies, is a cost of civilization and social costs. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This will not be paid by the leaders of the same large companies, but by the entire European population, all taxpayers. We therefore believe that in no way [[The president's ringing again.]] it must serve the common good and therefore reject the resettlement quota. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Antal Rogán wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-11-30-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me begin by saying that, of course, Christian democracy played an important role not only in Hungary in the peaceful reconstruction of Europe after World War II, but also the common European idea is a Christian Democratic idea. Without Konrad Adenauer and Robert Schuman, there would not be the European Union to which Hungary is a member today. However, when this was created, they may have been thinking in a slightly different kind of Europe. One thing we can say for sure is that the roots of Europe's original Christian and Christian democrats have always been important, and what is more, have been considered to be the most important. My fellow Members, I would also like to know that the Konrad Adenauer, who, according to the news, once said that the Ten Commandments were so clear because they did not decide at a conference on what he would say today about the lack of clarity and inability to decide which is characteristic of the leaders of the European Union at a time when they are constantly consulting on the other subject referred to by the Member on immigration, but they cannot find a solution on their part. Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said here in the comments, Hungary's position from the outset is that the most important ability for Europe must be that it is able, knows, and wants to protect its external borders. We sincerely regret that neither the solution nor the appropriate financial resources have been mobilised by Europe's leaders so far. I respectfully note, ladies and gentlemen, that the additional resources promised by the leaders of the European Union to protect borders and address the issue of immigration have not yet been fully allocated to us. Ladies and gentlemen, I can agree with Mr President's suggestion that the permitable immigration policy in Brussels has clearly failed in recent months, but unfortunately, the leaders of the European Union do not want to notice this. Not only since the events in Paris, but also before the events in Paris, it was clear that this uncontrolled inflow, which today marks the immigration situation at Europe's borders, will certainly increase security risks and increase the threat of terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned once today, in recent months, an illegal immigrant arrived in Europe every 12 seconds on average. More than a million people have arrived so far only this year. We don't know who they are, and we don't know exactly what their intentions are. Let us be honest with you that the European Union's current border police organisation cannot reveal their real identity, since they say what they want to say about themselves and arrive with a forged document with which they want to, we are not able to verify their authenticity today. Therefore, of course, we do not know how many of them are disguised terrorists, or even people who, for some other reason, try to conceal their original identity. Ladies and gentlemen, For this reason, the Hungarian Government takes the view that, on the one hand, the arrivals must stop their inflow, the borders must be protected and the ability to control it must be created. That is why we supported the point in the agreement with Turkey, which represents humanitarian aid in the refugee camps there, and we have not been able to support the introduction of new immigrants into Europe. That is why we consider this to be one of the greatest threats in the compulsory resettlement quota, because we believe that the problem created by the influx of illegal immigrants would actually be spread out in Europe. [[13.30]] Accordingly, the mandatory resettlement quota, as Europe's risks increased, would increase the terrorist threat across Europe, in all countries. Unfortunately, the compulsory resettlement quota also threatens our culture, precisely the original Christian roots of Europe, which Mr President spoke about at the beginning of his speech. The mandatory introduction would change ethnic, cultural and religious composition throughout Europe, including in our country, without the European or Hungarian citizens giving the authority to the leaders of both Europe and other countries to do so. So, thanking my fellow Members for their help so far, I would like to reiterate that the Hungarian Government will continue to fight the compulsory resettlement quota, and we will continue to emphasise at all the EU summits in Brussels that we consider the common protection of the external borders as a priority. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-16	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Zoltán Lukács, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech: a democracy for everyone, a new republic for everyone! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-30-17	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is no longer a matter of debate that the primary objective of Fidesz' five or six-year reign was to destroy democracy in Hungary, to bring down the system of brakes and counterweights, to virtually eliminate, empty, or even to be controlled by a party. This was not a one-time mistake by the Fidesz government, it was practically a systematic destruction of Hungarian democracy. If we give just examples, party soldiers have been placed at the head of the State Audit Office. [[Are you talking about Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tihamér Warvasovszky?]] At the head of the National Election Office and the National Election Committee, they reek penetrately of their party military character and do their best to crush the possibility of referendums. The Constitutional Court is full of Fidesz party soldiers. The D.A.'s office is characterized by the fact that the Attorney General is kissing the Prime Minister in the bleachers of the VIP; this is obviously the custom in democracies. And the NAV is about to be handed over to the party soldiers right now, and they want to adopt the law as a matter of urgency that the National Tax Office will be run by party politicians. The justice system has been dismantled, with more or less success, but they have tried, the press are threatened with legislation, the public media has been virtually controlled. The rights of trade unions have been withdrawn, the rights of workers have been almost destroyed in Hungary. And once again, the institution of the referendum is practically empty, almost impossible. That is why the birthday Christian Democratic People's Party is also a member of this coalition, and I must say, while wishing you a happy birthday, that the great ancestors you've listed here may not be proud of the decisions you're taking, the political lines you're taking. You said that two repressive regimes were against the Christian Democratic People's Party, so it's strange that the Christian Democratic People's Party is still involved in this repressive system and is in the decisions. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Prosperity is based on democracy, and prosperity is the basis of democracy. We cannot talk about democracy in a country where a very large proportion of families have almost no basic opportunities. Most families are practically unable to feed their children every day, many families still cannot pay for their energy bills, many families do not have access to services such as public services, healthy drinking water, they do not have access to their medicine because they cannot replace it, they do not have access to decent medical and health care, because that is the system today. It is not possible to talk about a democratic country at a time like this. Ladies and gentlemen. Clearly, Fidesz is not capable of self-correction and is unable to change itself. Therefore, obviously, in order to be a democracy and republic again in this country, they must leave power. Today, I see many politicians think it lasts forever. I would like to say that if the Soviet Union and the Roman Empire were able to collapse, then look inside, and you will see that you will also be able to collapse. Maybe sooner than you think. And when that happens, it is likely that there will be an opportunity to become a democracy in this country, a direct and deeper democracy than it was. Because they were able to destroy democracy and the republic so easily because the Republics of '89 and 2010, the Third Republic, could not give so much to the people, neither in democracy nor in well-being, that they had fought for it, so you could easily destroy it. The new republic must be given much more prosperity, much more democracy, much more direct democracy. The Hungarian Socialist Party is thinking in such a republic and such a democracy, where people can have much more say in their own affairs and get much more democracy. If there will be more prosperity, when you will no longer be, if there will be more democracy, then Hungarian citizens will also be better at protecting it. The foreign workers must be given back their voting rights, who you have driven away from this country, and the local government must be returned in this country, which you have destroyed. Civilians must be given much more support, whether with the possibility of tax transfer, with anything else, but in no case with commandos, they must be sent to the offices of civil society organisations. Trade union rights must be given back, a new trade union law, a new labour code, and generally the Republic and democracy must be restored in this country. You can't do that, but others will do it for you. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Antal Rogán wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-11-30-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would, of course, like to respond to Mr Lukács's slightly emotional comment in substance, but allow me to express my deepest condolences to the citizens of Salgótarján for the unexpected death of Mayor Ottó Dóra, in addition to the citizens of Salgótarján. I think that, in any case, even if we were political opponents, this honor here in this House goes with the deceased mayor. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. - It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, On the other hand, allow me, as I myself have been following up on the events of the MSZP Congress this weekend, as far as the press reports have allowed, I would like to add to you, honourable Member, I think, when you make such accusations, I must, with some respect, remind you that between 2002 and 2010, your party was in government in this country. And that's when today's words are worth comparing with the actions of that time. And yes, I didn't even refer to the period before 1990, and now I don't want to mention it separately. But as far as democracy is concerned, honourable Member, we all remember the events in autumn 2006. I ask you, when you speak, never forget that in the autumn of 2006, it was your party, your government, that used the police for political revenge. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true! Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] In the autumn of 2006, it was your government in crisis that wanted to maintain its power by force, and abused the fact that, bypassing the laws and the Ministry of Police, Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány directly negotiated with police leaders, ordered the police, resulting in the beating of peaceful protestors and the shooting of the masses. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] We do not know who ordered this today, my fellow Members. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai keeps interrupting. The president's ringing the bell.]] However, I would like to remind you that the person who talks about democracy should respect what, I think, was the first time since the change of regime in Hungary that a representative of an opposition party was physically abused by the police, suffered healing injuries over eight days during an otherwise announced peaceful mass demonstration. [[Lajos Kósa: And then the pro-government representatives made a joke about it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, if we are talking about prosperity, and particularly energy bills or minimum wage, let me remind the honourable Member that, unfortunately, when you were ruling, many times even the words were followed by actions that were then overwritten by new actions. You raised your wages and then withdrew it. You have reduced taxes by withdrawing them. Let's remember these. It may be that you have actually introduced the 13th month pension, for example, when it was considered justified from an election point of view and then withdrawn, honourable Members. [[President Novák: Viktor Orbán also promised a 14th month pension.]] In addition to a month's pension, a month's salary was abolished for civil servants and civil servants. [[In an interrogation, Lajos Kósa: You voted in favour.]] Ladies and gentlemen, May I also remind you that, by the way, it was you who promised to reduce the tax before an election, to lower the VAT, and then immediately after the election, it was withdrawn and raised back to its original level, honourable Members. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: VAT is 27 percent. The amount has been further increased.]] [[13.40]] I think that it is not appropriate for a political force to do this in any democracy; or if so, it will have to face the consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of wages, too, I would like to remind you that under the previous Socialist Government, especially between 2006 and 2009, but also in the case of minimum wages, the purchase value of the minimum wage has been reduced almost continuously: it has decreased by 10% every year between 2007 and 2010, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How much now?]] I think that, compared to this, in recent years, 2010-2015 is the government of a non-socialist government, while a non-left-wing government has been governed, the gross amount of the minimum wage has been increased by 43 percent, and [[Zoltán Grimlock: And how much is the net?]] We still intend to increase this. And, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of energy bills, [[Zoltán Lukács: Add the net!]] Let me remind the honourable Member that, during his administration, although at the beginning we heard a very different promise from Ildikó Lendvai, the price of gas was tripled, the price of electricity doubled, making the cost of electricity almost priceless for people. Ladies and gentlemen, I think - although I can see that you are today's great warriors for the reduction of the rent and pretend that the reduction is due to you - at most one thing is true: if Ildikó Lendvai and his comrades hadn't been there, we wouldn't have had anything to cut in the last four years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-20	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda Mr Mirkóczki, Member of the Jobbik Group.... [[For signal:]] Sorry, fellow Members, I did not want to go around Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. So Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP Group, spoke with the title "The Potyautasta of European Climate Protection." I give you the floor.
u2015-11-30-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If a list were to be drawn up of the greatest threats to life on earth, the present and future generations, climate change would be sure of the first three, with the complex issue of migration and the global increase in poverty. Moreover, these are interrelated issues: climate change is undoubtedly increasing poverty and increasing migration. Compared to the weight of climate change, the Hungarian Parliament has so far dealt with little of the problem, even though COP 21 starts today in Paris, or otherwise the Paris Climate Summit, where not only the future of the Kyoto Convention, but actually the fate of the entire planet, must be decided. Hungary is acting as if we are not affected by this; we are trying to exclude ourselves from the efforts that the world, including Europe, is trying to do to curb global warming. The task is clear: the increase in the average temperature on Earth must be kept below 2 degrees Celsius compared to the level before the industrial revolution, otherwise the process will be irreversible. This will require a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 40 per cent in the short term, rather than 70 per cent in the longer term. In addition, there are already serious adaptation tasks. In order to achieve this objective, states and groups of countries have made various commitments to the climate summit, which already show that they are not enough. The European Union is at the forefront: it promises to cut emissions by 40% by 2020, increase the share of renewable energy sources to 20 per cent and increase energy efficiency by 20 per cent. The US would cut 26-28 percent, while China reserves the right to increase emissions until 2025, and would not start the reduction until 2025. These preliminary commitments are sufficient for 2.7 percent increase in temperature, if commitments are to be respected in the future. Unfortunately, Kyoto commitments have not been met either: by 2012, the developed world has reduced by 5%, but emissions have increased instead of falling. The 2.7 percent increase can have disastrous consequences: extreme weather conditions, food and water shortages, various diseases and epidemics will have to be dealt with among others. Now let's see what Hungary does! Our government says that since 1990 we have done about 40 percent emission reductions, but that is not the result of conscious climate policy, as we know, but because the heavy industry collapsed after the change of regime. And the Hungarian government also says that in the area of renewables, we will have enough 14 percent, which we have almost achieved by converting some coal power plants to wood burning, and, if possible, we would not make any meaningful progress in the area of energy efficiency. All this fits perfectly with the energy and climate policy of the Orbán government so far, in which Russian atoms and Russian gas are central. And in order to ensure that our vulnerability to energy imports in Russia will not be reduced in the future, they will ban the construction of new wind power plants, tax solar panels and take away the promised non-refundable EU support from retail energy efficiency and renewable investment. Hungary is therefore preparing not to take any meaningful steps in Paris compared to the current situation. The government's strategy is to avoid global efforts and to remain the stowaways of climate protection in Europe. In order for the Hungarian government delegation to have any reason to be there at the Paris Climate Summit, we would have to make commitments that will make a substantial contribution to halting warming, and that clearly cannot be achieved without a significant change in the over-developed and fundamentally flawed Hungarian climate policy. This would be in the interests of the Hungarian people, since the long-term dependence on energy imports and the pressure on high energy prices can only be achieved in a sustainable way by increasing energy efficiency and using renewable energy sources. Moreover, our country is one of the most vulnerable EU Member States to climate change. What we see is that the Orbán government is trying to get away with it; instead of the European Union's goals, by maintaining its energy dependency, it actually represents the interests of Putin Russia; it places our future in its own short-term foreign and internal policy perspectives. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-30-22	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-30-23	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Climate protection is indeed a very important issue, one of the most important issues of our planet and mankind. For this reason, it is also expected in the Hungarian Parliament that we should express ourselves in it with a degree of seriousness and not at the level of the daily political sandbox. [[Intercoms from the LMP benches: Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] According to the timetable agreed at the Warsaw Conference in 2013, the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change will agree on a new global convention at the climate conference starting today in Paris. The primary objective in the negotiations is to prepare a global climate agreement in 2015 and in force from 2020, which would replace the Kyoto Protocol, which is now the second commitment period. The new agreement aims to achieve the main objective of the Framework Convention, to maintain global temperature rise within 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What has the government done so far?]] The new Convention will allow countries with high emissions that do not ratify the Kyoto Protocol, such as the United States, developing countries that do not yet have emission reductions, or countries that do not have emissions reduction targets in 2012-2020, Canada, Japan, Russia, to play their part in the global effort to combat climate change. The main objectives of the Convention are to ensure an adequate level and legally binding commitment to achieve the target of emission reduction of 2 degrees Celsius. The tools for this are: to move from fossil-based economic setting to the introduction of fossil fuel support and the establishment of a reporting system, to agree on how to mobilise the 100 billion USD of funds offered by developed countries in the context of the climate finance goal, and to finance the low-emission development of the underdeveloped countries. [[13.50]] Hungary has been pushing for and supporting the development of a new, global, legally powerful treaty that could guide the management of climate change for the next decades, helping to promote sustainable development. Accordingly, Hungary is also represented at the highest level at the current conference. According to the Hungarian position, the adoption of a dynamic, fair, legally binding, universally binding protocol with a commitment cycle of 5 or 10 years would be justified. It is an important task to bear burdens proportionate to the agreement between the developed and developing states and to resolve the issue of differentiation. [[Dr. Szél Bernadett: The Hungarian Government?]] The primary effort is to reduce emissions, the increasing number of floods, and even extreme weather. The European Union accounts for only 9 percent of world emissions. Of this, Hungary's emissions account for less than 1 percent, but our reduction so far, together with one or two former socialist Member States, is one of the most significant among the EU Member States. Hungary's emissions data for 13 were more than 36 percent more favourable than the output level for the just 90. I have also heard on the radio the statements made by the Member on this matter. I ask you not to say any more bad things about your country, your country, than what the daily political debates call for in this round. In 1990 in Hungary the metallurgy no longer worked, the large chemical plants still operate. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Why don't you sit down and argue? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Whether it's TVK or BVK. Some large power plants have significantly reduced both dust and sulphur emissions. So Hungary has made significant progress in this area. The EU's commitments for the base year 90 are, by the way, very ambitious. On this basis, I reject the position that Hungary is a stowaway in this. Hungary provides a good example and a significant reduction for all mankind [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To solve a question. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-24	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, For a speech before the agenda, MEP Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik Group asked:. How many times does it take two weeks for order? Now let the criminals know that there is order, because they seem to think of it quite differently with their title. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-30-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would just like to start my speech with a few specific points. Mende, double homicide; VIII. District, shooting; Castle Palace, a man was beaten to death in the days; Sihalom, in his own courtyard, attacked an honest citizen who had suffered healing injuries after eight days. In Székesfehérvár, an elderly man was beaten on a bus, and an elderly woman was robbed in Kunhegyes. Violent acts are regular on BKV flights in Budapest. And this morning, the news-reading citizen must have woken up to the Havana residence with a family father with two children being stabbed in the neck with a noble simplicity, and you have a cigarette? With an invitation. We also know this form of crime, who it is and how it is, and how you do nothing about it. All of this, which I've listed, is the events of the last days and a week or two, and it's just the tip of the iceberg. In many cases, if the perpetrator is accidentally brought to the hands of a police officer, either the court will make an outrageous judgment, which will further upset the outrage of society, and if someone, in their final despair, takes into their own hands the protection of their own physical integrity or their material possessions, then the court will act with unprecedented rigour. So much for the double standard of justice. The subjective sense of security of Hungarian society is much deeper than ever before. I would like to stress that this is not the fault of the police. I would like to stress that we are not criticising the police, but those politicians, those decision-makers who sometimes or quite often give the police political orders. That the police do more money collection than crime prevention or law enforcement is not the fault of police leaders, it's the Ministry of Interior or the government. Speaking of subjective security, I would also like to state that it was an assassination against the peaceful population of Hungarian society when you raised the default threshold from HUF 20,000 to HUF 50,000. With this one step, they have achieved that minor crimes against small assets or persons, which have been considered petty, are now being committed to a much greater extent in a much wider geographical area. We can no longer say that there is only a problem in North-East Hungary, or that there is only a problem in Baranya, but we now see it in Budapest, we see it on Transdanubia, we see it in areas where the situation was relatively good for public safety; it is now gradually deteriorating there too. This is due to a brutal increase in the infringement threshold. This is what you have achieved, and you continue to ignore, in substance, how I can make the countryside viable and liveable from the point of view of public security. Of course, most of the crimes listed - or almost exclusively - are due to the outlaw part of Gypsyism. They are the ones you consider to be the hidden resources of Hungary. Thank you very much for allowing these resources to be raided like this, for suffering from them gypsies, not gypsies, absolutely no matter who tries to live a meaningful life and respect standards, it has all fallen victim to this layer, which, by the way, does not decrease, but also increases specifically in the number of souls and in the manner of the crime. Of course, I don't want to go around the responsibility of the Roma political elite here either, because if the average gypsy man sees his own political elite stealing, cheating, and taking out the most brutal corruption cases with pen, paper or tie, then what do we expect from the average? What do you expect from your own political elite to give home-based gypsy a pattern where, by the way, it is safe to increase wealth outside the law very nicely. I would like to stress that we are also talking about Viktor Orbán's one-man responsibility here. As long as you do not remove this consistency, among other things, until the infringement threshold is reduced until the police are used not for collecting funds but for law enforcement and crime prevention, these processes will not be reduced. I would like to mention here what Mr Secretary of State will obviously say about the work the police are doing at the southern borders of Hungary, and of course that is true, and I thank them for it. But I would also like to stress that those police officers are now missing from other counties and territories in Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's why the border guard shouldn't have had to use the police for border protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-30-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I'd like to reject your racist claims against Gypsy. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] the statements which are without any basis, honourable Member. You spoke of double standards, you attacked Hungary, the Hungarian people, the Gypsies living in Hungary without any basis. [[The Universe! Adam Mirkóczki: I didn't stab him in the neck!]] Honourable Congressman, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where no one is above the law. Who violates laws, who violates laws, regardless of race, gender, denomination, origin [[From the Faction of the Foreman of Novak!]] The colour of the skin should be answered. Honourable Congressman, We have said this many times over the past five and a half years, and we are applying it in practice. By the way, I regret that, with your comments before today's agenda - by the way, four interpellations and two immediate questions on the same subject on Jobbik's part - you may be trying to improve Jobbik's decline in popularity. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Fall!]] Thank you very much for the expression of my colleague that they are not trying to improve the popularity of falling, but rather falling. [[Delight and murmur in the ranks of Jobbik. Interventions at the same place, including KDNP is stable! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I think that the facts, the reality, you either don't know or you've been misled. [[Forebod Novak: The clever ones are billing $1 million for this!]] Or you're not telling the truth, Congressman. Allow me. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Parliament, to give you facts in support of what I have set out! [[14.00]] You do agree, Congressman, that in terms of the work of the police or the assessment of public safety, people's views on how they take their stand are crucial, do you not? Allow me to quote some data. Honourable Congressman, Every year the municipal and county authorities report to the police on the state of public security in the municipality, the county, how public security is assessed in the given municipality, in a given county. In the spring of this year, it took place in 18 county seats, Budapest and 154 police stations in the cities of the seat, in 149 settlements, and all the reports were accepted by the local assembly and local government; it adopted them unanimously in 117 places, Congressman... [[Adam Mirkóczki: Who cares?]] Who cares? Well, you're the one who's been asking me questions in your comments before the agenda. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Fidesz accepted! The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm trying to answer. Honourable Congressman, I've been a municipal representative for 20 years, and I know from my own experience that at these board meetings, [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Of course, the fidesz majority accepts it!]] the public is asking questions of interest to Members, officials, and they decide whether they will receive appropriate answers, how public security is assessed. So - continuing to answer - in 117 places unanimously, Baranya, Bács-Kiskun, Csongrád, Nógrád, Tolna, Veszprém and Zala were accepted unanimously, without voting against or abstaining, and in other places these reports were accepted everywhere else. If these bodies had not been satisfied with the police's work, if they had not been satisfied with the state of public safety, they would have obviously pressed the. But I will also give you other figures: last year there has been a survey of the assessment of public safety in municipalities, schools, primary and secondary schools as well as in the parents' working community, and the work of the police has been evaluated at 4.1 on a scale from 1 to 5. And let me tell you that, going back in the last five years, compared to the 2010 figures, it is a fact that the number of crimes that have become known has decreased by 100,000. This is a significant reduction, so thanks to the police personnel. As for last year, the number of known crimes decreased by 13.2 percent in the first half of 2015 and the number of crimes committed in the public area decreased by 15 percent. But not only does this show effectiveness, but also the results of the investigation have been significantly reduced Honourable Congressman, This task, this superhuman task, can be ensured by the police in Hungary at the same time as carrying out its border protection tasks, and we can say that there is a greater order in Hungary today, and people live safely in Hungary today, compared to the conditions of 2010. Of course, I have also said everywhere that we want even better results, so in the 2016 budget, which was already adopted by Parliament in June this year, we will ensure the conditions that are necessary for the effective functioning of the police. If you really think that police work is important, if you really think that public order and public security are important, then support the law that promotes the work of the police. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-28	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Lajos Kósa applied for a pre-meeting speech [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition.]] from the Fidesz Group, entitled "The Revenge of Brussels." [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-11-30-29	Mr. President. Dear House, [[Interventions on the opposition side. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Brussels College of Commissioners has recently launched a European Citizens' Initiative aimed at initiating proceedings against Hungary under Article 7, which ultimately means the suspension of Hungary's voting rights. The initiative is the organisation that is the European Humanist Federation itself, which is typically known for its radical and far-left relations, with a clearly linked funding background for George Soros. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The position of the College of Commissioners was a very clear political position. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: György Soros on the Radical Left! But it's insane in the same place.]] : the European legal system and the Fundamental Law have nothing to do with the position of the College of Commissioners. The procedure provided for in Article 7 must not be initiated, nor can it be, and the European Parliament has nothing to do with it, and it is also quite obvious that it was initiated because Hungary is now extremely consistently, even as one, standing up for its firm position that Europe must protect its borders in the migration matter and that European countries must comply with the relevant international treaties: the Schengen Convention and the Dublin Conventions. However, since the leaders of the European Union consistently do not enforce these conventions, they prove to be weak or quite simply unworthy to take a clear position in such a case, Hungary took the liberty of defending its borders, establishing a security barrier, preventing illegal immigrants from crossing the Hungarian borders illegally, while ensuring, in accordance with international law, that those seeking political asylum at the border crossing points have the opportunity to present this request properly, and, in case of a positive assessment, Hungary provides these people, accepts and complies with international conventions. Hungary has consistently acted against the resettlement quota because it considers that the decision is illegal and contrary to international treaties. It is quite obvious that it is also a very pointless decision: 130,000 people are to be placed in mass against their will in different states on the basis of a compulsory resettlement quota, while more than one million people have arrived in the European Union under the same legal status. That is why the Fidesz faction initiated the collection of signatures in Hungary, and at the end of the week the number of signatures collected exceeded one million, on which it is clear that people will reaffirm the position expressed in the national consultation: the borders of Hungary and the European Union must be protected. By the way, the biggest problem for the Commission and European leading politicians is that someone strongly and effectively represents a position that they consider impossible, and in the context of their well-known testosity, it is not even clear whether the Commission's leaders hold the Schengen conventions in force at all, or what they think when Greece repeatedly violates it for many years, why a country led by a clearly radical left-wing and neo-fascist coalition can do this, and not a country led by a proper European conservative government. After all this, we consider it an important success or victory that the current EU-Turkish agreement does not apply the mandatory quota in connection with the introduction of 400,000 or who knows how many hundreds of thousands of extra-migrants, but we now draw everyone's attention to the fact that the mandatory resettlement quota is in place, and we must fight it, so, of course, the Fidesz fraction will continue to collect signatures against the resettlement quota until the European Union withdraws this illegal, unnecessary, wrong decision. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-30	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Antal Rogán wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-11-30-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Indeed, with regard to the compulsory resettlement quota, I can also confirm what Mr. Group Leader said that the Government of Hungary considers the compulsory resettlement quota to be illegal and dangerous. We consider the compulsory resettlement quota to be illegal because it was born by circumventing European law; the Brussels Commission did not agree with the governments of the Member States and did not agree with the parliaments of the Member States before it was enacted and declared binding. [[14.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Accordingly, based on Parliament's decision, the outcome of the national consultation and, of course, the negative opinion of the Hungarian people, the Ministry of Justice of the Hungarian Government is constantly working on the legal attack on the compulsory resettlement quota at the European Court of Justice. Minister of Justice informed the Government that the legal action relating to the compulsory resettlement quota will be filed by the Hungarian Government at the European Court of Justice by 14 December at the latest. At the same time, we are negotiating with the governments of the Visegrád countries, as we are taking a common position against the compulsory resettlement quota with them, and we are confident that we will be able to win the support of some of the Visegrád countries for the concrete submission. Ladies and gentlemen, On the other hand, we consider the compulsory resettlement quota to be dangerous - which has already been mentioned today - to be dangerous because the increased danger, security risk caused by the uncontrolled influx of immigrants would spread throughout Europe. In this form, of course, it would also increase the specific terrorist threat, honourable Members. And we also need to talk about the fact that the compulsory resettlement quota is a threat to our culture, as it creates a situation where Europe's ethnic, national, religious composition is fundamentally changing so that Europeans have not made any decisions about it before, nor have they given any mandate to do so to the institutions of Europe or to the governments of the Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, we also need to talk about the cost of a compulsory resettlement quota. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on today's conditions, if we look at how much it costs to provide an immigrant in the host camps in Hungary on the basis of the principles validated by the European Union, I must say to you that it currently costs 130 thousand forints a month to provide an illegal immigrant. Ladies and gentlemen, If we add to this the Soros plan, also mentioned by Mr. Group leader, where György Soros specifically proposes a HUF 4.5 million care for an immigrant in the event of receiving him, then I must say to you that this is not only Hungary, but it is also beyond the financial potential of the European Union, especially if we consider debt as the source of this. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has played a very important role in the fight against the compulsory resettlement quota, and therefore the decisions referred to above by the Head of the Group in Brussels clearly seem to us to be the revenge of Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us be honest, just two weeks ago, the Brussels Commission made it clear in writing that the application of Article 7 to Hungary was not an option, both at the beginning of the summer and about two weeks ago. In comparison, ladies and gentlemen, the Brussels Commission itself, the College, Mr Juncker, has indeed approved an initiative on the part of a strange and specific NGO specifically aimed at attacking Hungary, with a left-wing background, partly George Soros funding, and a civil society organisation that does not have a Hungarian organisation among its member organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask one thing of the opposition groups in this House. I would like to ask you to defend Hungary in the various forums of the European Union, to protect it against unfair attacks, and, if possible, to represent the opinion of the Hungarian people there, not to express party or ideological interests in Brussels legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-32	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-11-30-33	Dear Parliament, Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; László Varju, independent; Péter Ágh, Fidesz. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; János Bencsik, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Ander Balázs, Jobbik; László György Lukács, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; János Fuzik, Slovak speaker. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Erika Kissné Köles, Slovenian speaker; György Lukács, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP.
u2015-11-30-34	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP, has notified the President of the Parliament of the violation of his immunity, who has issued this to the Committee on immunity for examination. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, The Government has initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the amendment of certain laws to the National Tax and Customs Office, as well as to budgetary planning and management. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] T/7918. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure; the consolidated debate will take place tomorrow as the first item on the agenda, the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, namely 100 Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decision-making. I ask you if T/7918 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 116 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5:17 p.m. today. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place as the first item on the agenda tomorrow, the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote will take place between tomorrow's decisions. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the T/7355 on the publication of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan. Following the discussion of the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposed by the Commission, the T/6988 on the abolition of the levy and administrative service fee for certain official procedures should take place. The debate on the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposed by the Commission. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/6988 on the abolition of fees and administrative service charges for certain official procedures. Following the discussion of the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposed by the Commission, the 2001 LXXX on the return of illegally exported cultural goods should take place. T/7399. The debate on the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposed by the Commission. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that the 2001 LXXX on the return of illegally exported cultural goods. T/7399. Following the discussion of the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposed by the Commission, the 1994 XLV on war care should take place. T/7391. Proposal for a regulation to discuss the Commission's report. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. [[14.20]] Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group suggested that the 1994 XLV on war care. T/7391. Following the discussion of the Commission's report on draft law No 7400 on the amendment of certain national defence laws. The debate on the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposed by the Commission. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that decisions be taken on Tuesday, 1 December 2015 at the earliest from 13.30 a.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that on Tuesday, 1 December 2015, the Parliament's meeting will be held with the XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. T/6979 on the amendment of Act T/6979 and other related laws. T/7393 on the publication of an intergovernmental agreement relating to the Single Resolution System to decide on a comprehensive amendment proposal and the final vote. It shall take place after the final vote of bill No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, I declare that this meeting will not take place in the course of the XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling. Act LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. Act T/778 amending Act I of 2004 on Sport and the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. T/7389. To discuss the Commission's reports submitted to the legislative proposal No 1 and to final votes, as the Government initiated the procedure of the Legislative Committee. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The general meeting of the Hungarian National Group of the IPU will now take place, and for the duration of this IPU will take a break. I would like to ask my fellow Members to remain in their seats. [[Break: 14.23-14.49President: István Jakabjegyző: Nándor Gúr]]
u2015-11-30-35	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:49 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title KLIK, knowledge and money. Mr István Hiller, Vice-President, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. [[14.50]]
u2015-11-30-36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! It was a big day for the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center on 18 November: the day it was revealed at a press conference that KLIK became a knowledge centre. Joy and happiness filled the country at that moment. On the same day, on 18 November, KLIK also received a payment notice, as the unethical and illegal payment of allowances for months has caused serious financial problems for our colleagues, said the president of the filing union. At the same time, on this great day, a director reported that Magyar Posta would no longer take over school supplies unless they paid the fees immediately, claiming that KLIK had such a debt that it refused to continue to lend. On the same day, a teacher in Pest County, who taught computer science as a lecturer, had not heard the news that KLIK had become a knowledge centre, decided not to continue teaching because he had not received a salary in this academic year, i.e. since September. Postage orders, reimbursements, bonuses and a number of legitimate benefits at another address have not been paid for months. When the head of KLIK learned at the press conference mentioned earlier that they became a knowledge centre, he acknowledged that they spent on themselves, KLIK, in addition to an army of right and noble goals, on the 10 billion HUF program, justifying the need for internal training. It was also published on the same day that a school no longer has a photocopier, as it takes six months to get permission from the maintainer, i.e. KLIK, for the service. Let's face it, it's a specific manifestation of a knowledge center. Dear Secretary of State, It's obviously not working. From time to time, the government may provide extraordinary additional funding, tens of billions, a ministerial commissioner's report, replace the staff; it must be realised that the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre itself is the problem; it will again and again recreate the deficit, perform its task and absorb the money. With all due respect, Mr. Secretary of State, do you think that KLIK is a well-functioning knowledge centre? Are the teachers right about demanding their dues or the KLIK that doesn't pay? What else does it take to see that the KLIK is a bad solution and that it is bad for Hungarian public education? I look forward to your reply with sincere hope. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-37	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-30-38	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I could start from many directions, but I begin by saying that the Member stood up and enlarged specific local problems, some of which were probably real, as if there had not been such problems before, in previous years; as if there had not been a school during your education ministership, where, in any case, there had been a shortage of any teaching material, we would not have heard any news when one school ran out of photocopier paper or had no chalk at any school before. For as long as I can remember, this kind of news has appeared in order. This is not the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre's own, honourable Member, this has always been the case. The timeline hasn't started with the KLIK since these problems started. There is no doubt that KLIK met with a great deal of additional tasks when it took over the maintenance of schools from the municipalities and the operation of certain schools. Because there have been huge differences, as we have already talked about here in Parliament, between the financial situation of an educational institution and the financial situation of another educational institution, because the solvency of the municipalities depended on one school being more released and the other not. And this also resulted in the number of differences in the number of disadvantaged or otherwise assisted young people in a difficult situation in each class. In the country as a whole, the opening of scissors, the growth of social differences, has been somewhat influenced by the fact that education has been contrasted in this regard and has increased the differences itself rather than reducing them, rather than giving everyone the same level of knowledge. This is a 20-year-old problem that could have been stepped up by the preventive governments, but they didn't. They could have taken a meaningful and effective measure to stop and eliminate the disruption that has occurred in many, many schools in Hungary as well as in the system of public education. But they didn't. They could have come up with an alternative proposal on how to stop or reverse two decades of such problems after the change of regime, such a difference. But they didn't. No government did. There was only one possibility: a central state operation, a central state reservation. That the KLIK has operational problems? Obviously, there are. That's why we're changing the text, so we're strengthening the administrative and financial permissions of the county center district, which is why we're giving the heads of institutions a treasury card to cover their expenditure in rem. And that is why we add to the additional tasks that have arisen, to the reduction of this difference, the unbelievably established difference of HUF 26.7 billion plus resources to the Hungarian system of public education, the Hungarian education through the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center, as we have given to increase the wages of teachers in more than 100 billion order, so that their work will have more respect and not take away their monthly wages. Honourable Congressman, This was the opportunity to stop this difference from growing. That is why the KLIK had to be created and, of course, that is why the operational problem needs to be improved, even with additional resources, which this government has always done when it was necessary. That is why I ask you and others to acknowledge that the central reservation, central operation, is also a construction in other countries. The construction itself is not faulty, as some of the problems are a problem earlier than the creation of the CLIK. Only what has been said so far in the case of a local government, you are now dragging it all over the KLIK as a problem, and you know that this is not real. It's not the establishment of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center that starts the different problems that we're trying to solve. And I trust that this extra resource represents more than HUF 21 billion in personal benefits, more than HUF 5 billion in various taxes and contributions, and this will ensure, for example, that we will be able to pay the second HUF 25 thousand allowance to non-educator staff, which will be paid in addition to their previous salary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-39	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr. Congressman, Mr. Vice-President, whether you will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-11-30-40	I don't accept it, Mr. President. Mr Secretary, while you were speaking, the news arrived - you can read it - on an Internet portal that now there is no telephone or internet in the KLIK. This happened right under which you praised the KLIK. If you praise him less, you can even call him. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Add that you are moving!]] But if you're already right to take it personally, then I'm also speaking in the first person. Dear Secretary of State, I never would have allowed all the Hungarian classes from Nagykanizsa to Mátészalka to be controlled from an office building in Pest. I never would've let them appoint all the school principals from Pest without knowing who they were talking about. I would never have allowed the entire Hungarian public education to be managed in one hand without an international survey in 2007-2008 that would have said that the situation would have been worse. They either said he was getting better, or they said he was getting better quietly. A significant improvement in the performance of Hungarian students; that was the case, Mr State Secretary. I don't accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-41	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 41, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. How many times does it take two weeks for order? When are they gonna protect the little guys? It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2015-11-30-42	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The case of the wine farmer in Vácszentlászló is known to all of us: in the final despair of a man, in order to protect his own property, he made the wrong decision. A large part of the public sees the case as a duel between justice and justice, since a criminal thief who has been involved in drug and alcohol abuse died in the defense of a man defending his own property, but in vain was exposed to an entire gang of criminals, who have committed several burglaries and thefts in the settlement for a long time, yet the fist of the law struck the winemaker, and the court sentenced him to seven years in prison in the first instance. It doesn't make sense why the only person responsible is the man protecting his property. He didn't call anyone on his doorstep, and by illegally entering the property, the unsub placed himself outside the law of his own free will. [[15.00]] But the main responsibility of the situation is the government, whose policy of lying to public security, leaving its citizens unprotected, can result in such injustices and personal tragedies in our country. You promised to clean up in two weeks. How many times has it been two weeks? ! The situation of public security has not been better since the 2010 pinter promise, but is steadily deteriorating. And don't hide behind the cosmetic statistical numbers, but the real situation is being evaluated in a realistic way. Go down to a rural village and ask people if they feel safe and secure, if they have anything else. The so-called small people you so often refer to as the police in vain if they become guilty of burglary or theft, since in most cases the investigation will be exhausted in recording the record and closing the case a few months later, with the unidentified justification of the unsub; of course, if they are not immediately dissuaded by the police from filing the complaint, it will not result in anything. And in the investigation, there's usually no clues, no fingerprinting, but they're looking at their case in a way. That's why these people can be caught in an immense rage when they see that in cases less than theirs, the investigating authority is using everything and nothing is expensive to him. This was the case, for example, when a phone disappeared at Viktor Orbán's daughter's wedding, and the police did everything they could to locate the unsub, even had a mass of DNA tests done, all because of a phone. But this was the case with Gábor Kubatov last time, when he stretched out a piece of paper against his house, the investigating authority had 378 DNA tests done, worth nearly HUF 3 million. Dear Secretary of State, When do you intend to fulfill your promise, when will there be order in Hungary? When do you intend to create a world where small people's affairs are as important to the state as the lords'? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-43	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-30-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today there is order in Hungary, and in Hungary people live more safely than five and a half years ago. The government has fulfilled its promises, restored order and security in Hungary. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is demonstrated not only by the numbers, but also by the manifestations of humans. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to state here, in the middle of the series of attacks by Jobbik, when police and order are being attacked today, I would like to say that we have never promised that there will be a single crime in Hungary. We'd like that to happen, we'd like that, but we didn't promise, and our goal is for the police to capture and prosecute every criminal. This is our intention supported by the facts. I have already said to our fellow Member, Mr Mirkóczki, that today, in all the settlements of Hungary, the police report annually on the development of public security and public order, and these reports have been adopted by the bodies of representatives, as I said before the previous agenda, on each occasion; in most cases, they have been adopted unanimously. Congressman! It wasn't always like that. For example, in 2003, when the then Veszprém County General Assembly discussed the situation of Veszprém County, the then Chief Constable said that they had so few means that they could do nothing but give out the password of the soldiers of the end of the city to the police: on their knees, to prayer! So, Congressman, when there was trouble, when there was no order in the country, not just the bodies and the people, but also the police, the responsible police leaders. Once again, the example I have given proves this. So, Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where no one can be above the law, who violates the law, must therefore be responsible. Hungarian reforms work, Hungary has more order, there is more security than five years ago. Police pay particular attention to contacts with local governments, mayors, councils, people living there. In the course of the investigation, the police were responsible for the 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings. It shall act in accordance with the provisions of the law and shall in any case seek to clarify the facts, including all incriminating and mitigating circumstances relating to the crime, to identify and seek evidence. Honourable Congressman, You regularly attack the order, the police here in Parliament. If you really wanted the order of Hungary, the public security of Hungary, you would have accepted and voted in favour of the laws that serve this purpose. I have said on several occasions in this House that the law of the police, the law of the offence, the law of the individual law, all the laws which served to strengthen the police, to strengthen order, has not been passed, has not been voted in favour. I'm sorry you're calling for order, but you're right next to the mess. I ask you, honourable Member, if order and security are really important to you, to change your position on the future and to support the bill negotiating and supporting order, public security, police. Thank you very much. I trust that if this is really important to you, you will accept my answer. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-45	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-11-30-46	Mr. President. I can't accept it. How could I accept that answer from the Grand Master of bullshit that we've just heard?Mr. State Secretary! We should get out of the enchantment of velvet chairs, cosmetic statistics. Why don't you go down to the country once and ask the people who have been hurt if they're saying what you're saying right now? In addition, these people are not stealing a phone or stretching a molino against their house, but stealing a small part of their lives from them, because the animal they were raising is the crop they produced with their own hands, a certain part of their lives, and you do not care about these people. They leave them for criminals, leave them for criminals. While when such a thing happens that a Molino is posted, that a phone was stolen from Viktor Orbán, 378 DNA tests worth HUF 3 million! Secretary of State, for a Molino, 378 DNA tests worth 3 million forints are proportional to the fact that you don't deal with thefts or burglaries in the country? Shame on you, I say. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. István Szilárd Németh: This is a shallow pleasure.]]
u2015-11-30-47	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes to 31, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:, Now that your private failure has failed, are they willing to finally change the rules? It's an address. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, because it was difficult for them to decide who was going to say the interpellation. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-30-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Now we can say with absolute certainty that your private failure has failed. The Department of Justice spent months trying to hide the number of debtors in family bankruptcy. The intellectual author of the private bankruptcy law, KDNP, also provided conflicting data. The last time we had a radio interview with Péter Harrach, he said that less than 100 households had entered the private bankruptcy. In a way, the faction leader was telling the truth, indeed less than 100, to be exact, 51 debtors have initiated private bankruptcy proceedings since September. Only the Data Protection Authority's intervention was able to find out how the program has done so far. The balance sheet: 51 procedures and HUF 626 million public money, spent by the government on measures related to the private pipeline. Of this amount, 173 million HUF went to bankruptcy services that are now empty. The failure was to be expected, and no one was to be surprised. The Possibly Other Politics has already said in the debate on the bill that private bankruptcy in this form is too narrow and can help few. We have said that due to strict entry barriers and unfulfilled conditions, only debtors with higher than average income will enter if they are not deterred by a multitude of hundreds of pages of administration and bureaucratic rules. Looks like they haven't even been won yet. There are fundamental problems with the private pipe, which we have also made proposals to amend in the debate on the law. We did not agree with the too strict entry barriers, the hard-to-repay terms. [[15.10]] We also did not guarantee that those who could make use of bankruptcy protection would remain in the debt settlement process if they had enough income to make a living equal to the minimum of living, or if they had to suffer for five years. We also asked that there should be strong guarantees to protect the housing security of debtors, that debtors in private bankruptcy would not be on the streets if, for example, they lost their jobs and would be unemployed. These suggestions proved to be pea on the wall. KDNP also needs to be clear that certain media did not create the bad news of the private failure, and that is not why the program was completely indifferent, as Peter Harrach said. The faulty regulation is the cause of failure, which is too narrow for the legislator. Question: are you willing to change the rules now that your private failure has failed? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-11-30-49	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2015-11-30-50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the view of the Government, there is no basis for finding that the introduction of the private institution of bankruptcy has failed and that a conceptual change should be initiated. The law is in line with the legislative objective of achieving a fair debt settlement by bringing the interests of the debtor and the creditor closer together with a well-deserved bankruptcy protection for those who undertake the obligations involved in the procedure. The law has created transparent, controlled, documented procedural frameworks for court and out-of-court debt settlement procedures. To date, 147 individuals have filed a request for private bankruptcy proceedings. Bankruptcy services at government offices experienced much more interest, and by the end of October 1756 interested parties were registered, to whom personal information and information was provided by employees of bankruptcy services. The resources devoted to recruitment and training of private workers are thus used, most of which were one-off expenditure. It takes a sufficient amount of time for families in difficulty to know and assess that this legal institution can help them. The fact that there are still few procedures in place does not mean that the legal institution has not worked. Cases are still at a stage in which debtors' families also consider initiating private bankruptcy proceedings or choosing the asset management programme. In addition, in some cases, the financial institutions themselves offer the debtors a contract amendment containing more favourable repayment terms and, if agreed, this way the family is able to avoid late lenders. At the government's initiative, Parliament recently adopted an amendment to the private bankruptcy law under which the opening of the debt settlement procedure can be submitted to the family bankruptcy service. The members of the regional family protection services set up at government offices have been properly prepared to receive requests. Also in this amendment, the legislator provided debtors with a one-off additional deadline of 1 March 2016 for cases that could be initiated at the first stage in order to ensure that those who have failed to comply with the legal deadline for them would not be rejected for this reason. The government will continue to examine the case law and, if possible, propose further simplification for customers. However, I must draw attention to the fact that the procedure itself relieves debtors and creditors of a number of administrative burdens, and the family bankruptcy service set up by the State takes on a number of tasks as a public service from the parties following the initiation of the procedure. This required the necessary organisational conditions and the development to be started. Please accept the response to the interpellation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-51	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-30-52	I don't accept the answer. Secretary of State, the more you drag and delay your hand on this law, the more unpleasant it will be for you to fail. It is already clear that in this form the private institution has failed. You have counted tens of thousands of families this year, and we should help tens of thousands of families. Because of the 51 tickets, and even if 147 people have submitted the contract, but the contract has not been concluded, you should think about it, and you should also consider that from 42 750 HUF per month, which is for one person, an adult person, if you enter this institution, you cannot make a living. You can't pay rent, you can't eat, you can't send the kid to school. And it should also be borne in mind that only those who are above average are helped by this institution at all. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-11-30-53	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, László Pósán, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: What does the school that commits a series of professional, legal and financial abuses teach and certify? It's an address. Mr László Pósán has the floor.
u2015-11-30-54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, After the civil government started consistently controlling the use of public funds for educational purposes, the Hungarian State Treasury was obliged to transfer more than HUF 2.2 billion back to several foundation schools. We have also heard from the news that several criminal reports have been made because of counterfeiting of authentic instruments and financial abuses. Professionals have long suspected that some of the institutions, which are very rapidly expanding, creating several member schools and sites, some of which may have become national networks in a few years, could hardly have created the necessary conditions, professional facilities, programmes and quality guarantees at this rate. This was particularly true when the institution came up with a special educational offer, a range of instrument-intensive vocational training courses, medical education or artistic training, adult education. The method of abuse is extremely diverse. From fictitious pupils and fictitious or unlicensed trainings, from certificates issued on them, to abuse of adequate educational staff, prohibited methods of group groupings, to exam frauds and financial magic tricks, the brainstorm is wide. Fictitious students, unsaved hours, and illegal group associations, also resulted in massive savings, the use of which could not have been done legally. However, it is obvious that education in this way is neither fair nor in the interests of students. It is recalled that some politicians were also beneficiaries of the illegal operation of private schools. It is enough to think of Gábor Vona's multilevel marketing activities, thinking of the 2F school, which has been banned since then, but with misleading contracts, has been sued in a mass, sued and shortened by hundreds of thousands of forints, or of the Montessori school in which the son of Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány could write his written graduation separately and have been treated differently. The then Board of Education and the then Minister of Education were also tacitly assisting in all of this. Dear Secretary of State, A significant proportion of foundation schools have a history of many years and decades. How is it possible that during Balliberal Government these abuses did not poke eyes or have no legal consequences? What do you want to do to ensure that parents and children do not become victims of abuse? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-55	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-30-56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We often see non-state and non-church schools as foundation schools, but in many cases they are not foundations, they are cfts or companies, and in the case of a good part of them, there has been more and more maladministration in recent times. [[15.20]] As you have said, they are subject to quite serious controls on the part of government agencies, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the part of the Treasury, and if the case continues at second instance, the Ministry of Human Resources, as a decisive body, will be included in the procedure. We have seen that the problems and difficulties that characterize schools maintained by foundations or companies are growing. Overall, as you said at the beginning of your speech, the amount we can talk about is billions of HUF. That is why it is important for everyone, every parent, to feel that their child is in good hands, because it is not good for someone to know in hindsight that where his child was going, he was taught by teachers who were not qualified, or that he or she was not able to continue his or her studies there for any other reason. We also remember from the news of recent years that one school closed overnight, Wednesday to Thursday, could no longer pay teachers, taught students, and within a day or two, KLIK had to find a place for these students in 4-5 other schools. Of course, the CLIK has performed this task and everyone has been trained continuously, but these difficult situations are better prevented than managed. The county government offices shall carry out their statutory audit in these schools at least every two years, and shall notify the body granting the budget contribution of the results and conclusions of the audit, which shall notify the Ministry of Human Resources of the Hungarian Treasury and, where appropriate, of their operation as specified in the operating permit. With regard to funding, they have more resources: state budget support, maintenance contribution, remuneration for the persons there, fees for the services used by the student, where appropriate, tuition fees, or other items of the public education institution's own revenue. The Hungarian Treasury controls these institutions at least every four years, now carries out an on-the-spot check and reports on their results. It suspends the financing of State aid in the event of irregular costs, spending or operation. It is important to say that none of the institutions have the right to receive such State aid, if they comply with the terms of the operating licence, if they comply with the laws, then they are entitled to this funding. What are the most typical mistakes? They carry out activities not covered by the operating licence, primarily not authorised OKJ qualifications and advertise courses or trainings to obtain them, not on the site covered by the operating licence, and sometimes they do not even pursue this on the territory of Hungary. There are cases where the number of pupils in the number of children in the application is not real, children who actually do not go to the school, the number of pupils and their data are not accurately recorded, there is no educational identification for the pupils, so it is not possible to know exactly whether the data are real or not, or whether their financial, educational management or other records simply do not base the use of money thoroughly. In such cases, they refer to administrative errors, but there are often omissions behind them. Records are a general problem in the course of inspections, so we recommend that everyone should always check on the informationalas.hu website to see if the training they apply for or if their child wants to be enrolled is real training. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-57	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I will ask Mr László Pósán if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-30-58	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I welcome the fact that the review and control of illegally operating foundation schools has begun and that there are financial implications for this. Therefore, I accept the answer. However, I would also like to note that, in my view, certain legislative amendments would be justified. As there has been a number of tightening ups in economic life, so that it cannot happen that companies are disappearing and that new companies are founded and that a series of frauds are created in this sense, so it should not happen in the educational area. As the 2F School, as of 2009, simply pursues its activities under the name IFF in the same form as the same owners, changed the name and, in this sense, continues to collect prizes from children and learners, I think it is worth considering what kind of legislative activity is appropriate in these areas so that these abuses can be avoided. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-59	Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Lukács, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: he needs urgent care with the title of emergency care in Tatabánya. Mr Zoltán Lukács has the floor.
u2015-11-30-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This year the new central building of the St. Borbála Hospital in Tatabánya was handed over, which was decided in spring 2010. It took one and a half cycles for you to finish this, but thank God it's done now. There was also great joy, many of them handed it over, virtually many of them cut up that national ribbon. Then, after the great pleasure, the work began in the building, and today it seems, and the fact that there are very serious problems with the emergency care department that has been placed in this building. This emergency department, just like the entire hospital, I can tell you that the entire Hungarian health care system is struggling with medical and nurse shortages, and doctors in this emergency department are barely able to take care of the emergency room, because they have not received any additional funding for the additional tasks. This should be provided by the current nursing and medical staff, which is not explicitly available by an emergency specialist. This should be provided by ophthalmologists, gynecologists, larynxes and doctors in other departments. The problem was that three or four doctors had resigned for this reason and had left the hospital with a medical shortage, and there were six or eight of them planning to leave St. Barbara's Hospital in Tatabánya. In addition, of course, the whole hospital has exuberant, extremely big problems, I repeat, the lack of doctors and nurses, the lack of equipment, the lack of equipment, the daily problem of care for patients. Practically the reason why this hospital still works like many hospitals is because the sense of responsibility and decent standing of the workers there make this possible, but many times their work is almost impossible. I ask the Secretary of State why they are not giving adequate funding to St. Barbara's Hospital to hire new specialists, and if there is a new building, it should be able to do normal healing work. Why is the problem that if they bring out on-call doctors, they will receive 6-7 thousand forints per hour on duty, earning the monthly salary of a nurse on an on-call basis, while the doctors working in the hospital receive a fraction of this as an on-call fee? I would also like to ask you if you are willing to finally settle the wage tensions in health care so that there is no permanent shortage of doctors and nurses, that hospitals and the country are not left and that workers can be treated normally in these hospitals. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-61	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-30-62	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Obviously, a lot of doctors and very many nurses have torn their threads, honourable Member, when, not only did they not increase their salaries, but in the period of the MSZP, they were able to bring home less than a month's salary when you also took away a month's salary for public health workers. This loss of trust had to be eliminated by the Fidesz-KDNP government not only in Tatabánya but also elsewhere. We have tried to do this, and we have tried to make wage improvements in line with the capacity of the budget. I think this budget surplus of about HUF 70 billion that we have been able to take is far from what we would all consider ideal, of course, but much more than previous governments have done. We took a sensible step, as it meant a 27-percent increase in 2012-13 for 95,000 employees. This year, in the second half of the year, we decided that out of an additional HUF 5.8 billion, in the case of workers who are on call, who have too much work, who are on the night shift, we give extra benefits. This year's HUF 5.8 billion, next year's HUF 12 billion, represents an additional income for 77 thousand people working next to the bed in health care, and of course we would like to continue this. Given the specific case of St. Barbara's Hospital, I was there myself, and I went around the hospital after the transfer. It's really very modern, XXI. They created centuries of conditions for healing. 5.8 billion forints was the amount we invested in people's health there. [[15.30]] But the emergency care department was also able to make a HUF 1.2 billion investment. Obviously, this department also spends most of its labour costs on personal expenses, HUF 170 million out of HUF 201 million. The exact amount of money who makes depends, obviously, on his education, his job, his employment form, his exam, honourable Member. Some people have this for 2,100 forints, and some people have 7,000 forints. If there were an I.A. in the hospital, a person with an emergency exam would, of course, receive the same overtime fee of HUF 7000 as outsiders. In this case, they were only able to solve it with outsiders, which is why they have a higher amount. You also referred to the travel charge in the written interpellation. I would also like to inform you here that there is no travel-cost compensation for external personnel, which is clearly included in their fee. I.A. employees can get one of these. Nurses in the emergency care department will receive HUF 50,000 a month in addition to the salary according to their classification, and caregivers and administrators will receive HUF 30,000 a month as an additional performance fee. That's what the hospital's trying to do to increase their income. In the case of the emergency area, we are talking about a shortage profession, which is why the government has been trying to keep or invite as many people in this area as possible, whether in other ways or in this area. As I have already said, the mobile wage difference can especially help people who work here, in this area, in the area of urgency, in on-call fees, standby fees, overtime, shift allowances. It is also important that in terms of replacement, a young doctor with a residency support programme or specialist support for young doctors, a shortage of professional support, or a fee in reimbursable medical expenses can be expected for up to HUF 64 750, or for a residency grant of HUF 100,000. In the case of a young specialist, they are entitled to an additional payment of HUF 151 thousand for the 5 years following the exam. This is how we strive to improve working conditions from the 500 billion-dollar hospital reconstruction section to the 6 billion-forints hospital in Tatabánya. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And we were trying to raise their salary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-63	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-11-30-64	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Compared to this, there are not enough doctors; compared to this, doctors in certain departments are already slowly living in the hospital to carry out their duties, so that there is no doctor. Most nurses and nurses work in Austria and England and Germany. You can't do this in a normal way anymore. In addition to their strength, these people will be able to provide patient care, and once again, doctors will leave the hospital, even a small number of doctors will leave the hospital because you are unable to finance it in a normal way. I think you're right when we can say that the doctor, the nurse, is enough, and that the job can be done normally. Until then, it's just words that fly through the wind. And the hospital doesn't have enough doctors, and it can't be treated normally. So I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-65	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 28 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. How many times does it take two weeks for order? When will the progress be made in preventing drug crime? It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2015-11-30-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Parliament adopted the national anti-drug strategy in 2013. Despite its many flaws, Jobbik has also seen this strategy as a step forward, but the first failure has already occurred last year: the relevant action plan has not been drawn up. There were supposed to be discussions, professional debates, and professionals know nothing about it. Maybe it's already been discussed by the government. There is no way to know what stage this action plan is in. The need not only for plans but also for real actions is supported by the next devastating figures. According to a report published this summer by the European Institute for Drug Monitoring, the number of drug users in Hungary increased by 50 percent between 2007 and 2013. This is virtually consistent with the report of the National Drug Focus Point, which registered a steeply rising number of consumers over the last 5 years, and last year after 2006, the proportion of drug users reached the highest in Hungary. In 2014, 6078 registered drug offenders contributed to 6509 registered drug offences, so there were 6078 committed in excess of these crimes. Over 75 percent of the perpetrators are under 30 years of age, which is why it is worth focusing on and even addressing young people in the process of dealing with this problem. Other surveys show that at least 20 percent of high school students aged 15-17 have tried cannabis, that much more people have started to consume the more dangerous herbal and crystal than cannabis, which in virtually many cases is not known by drug dealers, often at the last minute, with various sleeping pills, strong sedatives, and in essence traders do not know what they are selling to their customers. Once used, it can not only cause addiction but also permanent neurological damage, and under the influence of these drugs and designer drugs, the number of violent, life-threatening and bodily harm crimes is also increasing enormously. It is also important to point out that 4687 offences were committed in Hungary in 2014 under the influence of drugs. This is not the number of consumers, the number of perpetrators of drug abuse, but the proportion of those who commit crimes against or against life or property, or any other crime under the influence of the drug. The scope of these offences is extremely wide, for example, in violation of the rules of transport and endangering the safety of transport. This problem affects society as a whole, regardless of origin, but allow me to highlight one of the details of István Forgách's Gypsy expert study when he said that it is 5:30 on Saturday afternoon, at the moment at least 300 Gypsy youths in Borsod County are thinking about how, from what he will get the drug. Dear Secretary of State, In the interests of Gypsyism and Hungarians, I ask what they intend to do to eradicate these types of crime, how they intend to reduce the increasingly bitching drug crime. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I look forward to your meaningful reply, free of misconception. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-67	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-30-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The main objective of the national drug strategy is to ensure that drug use in Hungary is fully reduced by 2020 as a result of the widespread use of demand and supply reduction interventions. In order to achieve this, the strategy also provides for a significantly greater role for families, local communities and law enforcement tools to be used against distribution networks. The main orientations of the policy programme for 2015-2016 include the overall development of health development and general drug prevention in the area of demand reduction, the management system and the modernisation of reintegration. Its main objective is to fully prevent the entry into and trade in psychoactive substances in Hungary. To this end, it is particularly important to curb crime on the Internet and to protect growing generations in all areas where children and young people are at increased risk. Honourable Congressman, As from 1 January 2015, the Regulation on substances and groups of compounds classified as new psychoactive substances, Annex 1 of which contains new psychoactive substances in the form of individual compounds and groups of compounds. Law C of 2012 on the Criminal Code contains a criminal offence called the abuse of new psychoactive substances; Articles 184, 184/D. It is specified in the sections of this section. As of its entry into force, every year the police are increasingly busy with design drugs. Dear Parliament, In the case of substances that have recently emerged in illegal traffic, the police have taken the necessary measures to ensure that substances that are not yet on the list are listed as soon as possible. As a result, the list in force since 2012 has been amended seven times. From 11 July 2015, a comprehensive change in the list has taken place, as a result of which there is currently only one substance in illegal circulation in Hungary that has not yet been considered a controlled substance, but this inclusion is also ongoing, and will be done soon. [[15.40]] Honourable Congressman, For years, the police have seen action against both drugs and new psychoactive substances as a priority. The government has declared zero tolerance against drug use, drug crime. We trust that you will support this. If so, I ask you to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-69	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-11-30-70	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept his answer, although I would have loved it very much, I sought it, but I could not persuade myself to do so. That is because, by drawing up the action plan, they remained in debt; instead of increasing, the resources needed for drug trafficking are reduced. The police didn't have the means to catch criminals. Dear Secretary of State, When almost everyone in a small town knows where, when, what kind of stuff and how much they sell, and the police don't know that, it raises questions and suspicions. It is far from me that I would want to get involved in bravely sound police officers at the southern borders, but here there are either professional or instrumental problems or other problems. This problem, the problem of designer drugs, is mainly affecting young people. It is much cheaper to obtain than high-quality alcohol, which is why young people are virtually stunned by pennies, suffering permanent damage, often breaking a whole career in the waist. So these are the answers [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I can't accept these Andersen stories. It's not words, it's actions. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-71	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 26 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: - Are the Astras safe? It's an address. It is for Congressman Mátyás Firtl.
u2015-11-30-72	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As is known, the Romanian-based Astra Insurance Company went bankrupt in August of the year. The company had nearly 200,000 Hungarian customers and had a share of around 4% in the mandatory motor vehicle liability insurance market. In September, with the supervision of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, the company's clients had to be transferred, which had to be coordinated with the conclusion of new contracts with other insurance companies operating on the market. The rapid resolution of the problem has been hampered by the lack of uniform EU rules on insurance compensation funds, so there was a need for immediate domestic legislative changes. On the basis of the amendment adopted in almost full agreement at the end of September, the compensation invoice managed by the Association of Hungarian Insurance Companies will advance the payment of the damages caused by the Astra clients as well as settle the new contract of customers. As is well known, the Ministry of National Economy intends to reclaim the accident tax in order to complete the compensation process with the involvement of the tax office. In connection with the mandatory car insurance anniversary contracts that are still taking place today, and with the swiftest possible arrangement of the case of astro insured people, I ask the Secretary of State: do we already have data on the number of customers contracted and the level of compensation? Have the financial measures to strengthen consumer protection taken to prevent thousands of insured people from entering similar situations in the country in the future? One of the fundamental values of the insurance market is trust, trust in each other. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-73	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-30-74	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said in your interpellation, on 31 August of this year, the Romanian financial supervision withdrew the Astra Insurance Company's operating license and initiated the liquidation of the company. Astra's branch in Hungary could not conclude a new insurance contract from that date. As a result of the measure of Romanian supervision, contrary to domestic legislation, the insurance company will not accept any damage notification from mid-September, the reported damage will not be settled and payment entitlements will be suspended. According to Magyar Nemzeti Bank's information, the branch will terminate its activities from 1 December. The rapid resolution of the problem has been hampered by the fact that, due to a decision on a prolonged liquidation under Romanian rules and uncertain legal procedures, the insurance amounts of these customers and the service itself, i.e. consumers, have been put at risk. That is why it was necessary to amend the domestic legislation quickly, which was done by the government, the Ministry of National Economy and the Parliament. On 7 October the amendment of certain insurance legislation in relation to compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance was published, i.e. the 2015 CXLVII Act. Law. This has speeded up the transfer process. The amendment also remedyed the interruption of claims, since the compensation invoice managed by Mabis now advances the payment of the damages caused by Astra customers on the basis of re-notifications. Approximately 169 thousand compulsory car liability insurance contracts according to Astra's register have already been effectively transferred to 128 750 contracts so far. The number of customers not yet contracted is 21 248, there are about 19 thousand contracts that have been terminated for other reasons and the number of contracts concluded for vehicles that are not subject to registration of the vehicle and thus the bond, taking into account any data errors. Astra provided Mabis with 3720 unordered damages and 1127 claims were submitted to Mabis. 1055 of the 1127 reported damage are in the process of being dealt with. A significant part of this is expected to be clarified, assessed or corrected. In addition, there has been a legislative amendment to repay the accident tax mentioned by you. The Hungarian State will apply to the affected customers on the NAV website, and what the Astra Insurance Company does not perform will be performed by the Hungarian State through the National Tax and Customs Office to the injured customers. The question of what the government has done in order to prevent this from happening in the future was initiated by the Ministry of National Economy to the European Commission in order to change the rules and to bring them together at EU level. The Hungarian National Bank did the same for the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. We are very confident that, as a result of our initiative, such cases will not occur in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-75	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman Mátyás Firtl if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-30-76	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply, and I report that I accept his reply, especially because the Government has really done everything in its power to find a solution to EU regulations, which was the root cause. It is also important that the compensation invoice is also in place and that the compensations have indeed been made. I trust that what the government has done and the steps we have taken have been taken to restore confidence, and I trust that such things will not happen in the future. Thank you for your reply, I accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-77	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. - is the government working on alternatives, or is everything on the same page? It's an address. [[15.50]] On behalf of the Prime Minister, János Lázár, Head of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-11-30-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, When the government's nuclear deal in Moscow became known, they claimed that Brussels knew everything and approved everything. We already know that there is much not included in all of this: there is no breach of public procurement rules, the method of financing the investment or the encryption of environmental data. As we know, the European Commission has launched infringement proceedings against the Hungarian Government because of the withdrawal of the tender; an in-depth investigation has been launched on the suspicion of illegal State aid; and it is also heard that the Commission will review the encryption fever in relation to environmental data. Three out of three; three yellow cards are expected to be due to the Hungarian government, but the end of the process can be a red card, and the European Commission will tell you to terminate the contracts, stop the project and start all over again if someone else is to vote for you. Actually, I'm really sorry you ran into this triple-looking slap. If they had listened to the LMP from the very beginning, they wouldn't have done so, because there are two things to see here. I will start here by saying that you have been hiding the most obvious facts about the Paks enlargement from the taxpayers from the very beginning. We don't know what we get, when we get it, how much we get it, we don't know anything. It is unworthy that they know more about this project both in Moscow and in Brussels than we Hungarians, who finance your nuclear adventures. I ask you to take the Hungarian people seriously at last, to represent our interests, and not just Brussels and Moscow. On the other hand, in such a situation, it is not reasonable for you to say in a quasi-catatonic way that Paks goes on, Paks goes on, Paks goes on, even though the government seems to have run into a full hole here, and if you are not able to stop the Paks project, then billions of public money will disappear in this hole. The way I see it, you guys don't feel that way. Company. They take on this pathetic nuclear project; they tax the solar panels; they block the permission of wind power plants; they promise, and then they don't give it to the Hungarians. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: Oh!]] grants for people to isolate their homes and replace the windows. They don't see the opportunities that we can achieve as much as possible in order to protect the climate. Therefore, I find it very pathetic that you will also go to Paris to the climate summit with virtually only the collapse of the socialist major industry as a meaningful climate protection act, approximately 25 years after the events. So I'll help you, and I'll tell you this: you've just had another chance, as in Brussels, because now these Brussels decisions could offer the government an opportunity to finally back out of the Paks enlargement. There's not much to do, just say I'm sorry, it didn't work out this time. So I ask you to be kind, to inform the Hungarian Parliament and the public whether you will finally stop running this amok; or we can continue to listen to Paks go on, Paks goes on - with him the country goes on to nothing.
u2015-11-30-79	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-11-30-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, thank you for the activity that our fellow Member Bernadett Szél regularly performs in relation to the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. If I may, I would like to start by saying that Hungary's energy supply and energy security, my dear Member, is primarily a matter of sovereignty. Hungarian sovereignty is the most important political point, challenge, and the protection of Hungarian sovereignty is the most important in Fidesz' next ten-year political plans. One issue of sovereignty is energy independence. Then we can be independent, we will be less vulnerable if we can extract energy ourselves or create it ourselves. Therefore, there should be consensus that Hungary's domestic power generation capacity should be strengthened and that environmental aspects should also be pursued. If I sum up these aspects, the best thing for Hungary is to maintain nuclear power plant capacity, because the question is not what you are pushing for, but dare not talk about how we will maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant; the question is that everyone has to acknowledge whether nuclear power and nuclear power are needed or not in Hungary. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: No!]] After 2010, we adopted a document stating that nuclear energy is needed in Hungary within the framework of the energy mix, which is the responsibility of Hungarian competence and the Hungarian state within the territory of the European Union. Security of sovereignty, independence, environmental aspects and security of supply must be ensured. The question is, what are we going to do to ensure that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant doesn't stop its activities so that it stays. Today, 30 percent of Hungarian energy consumption is ensured by the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Is that what you want to deprive the Hungarian population of? You want to deprive the Hungarian population of cheap electricity, Congresswoman? The Paks Nuclear Power Plant sells the power for 14 forints. Do you know how much a German voter pays for electricity? Do you know how much you're paying, Congresswoman? [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: You have no idea!]] 90 forints a kilowatt. Do you want to unleash 90 forints of electricity on Hungarian voters? [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of the governing parties.]] The kind of energy policy you represent is the luxury of rich countries and not the luxury of Hungary! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all Hungarians cannot face the challenge facing German citizens. Today, all German citizens contribute 80,000 forints a year to the subventional system of green electricity. In addition to the support, they pay HUF 90 per kilowatt hour, and the Hungarian population pays HUF 36-38 per kilowatt hour. This is the real dilemma, Congresswoman: should the cheap electricity remain for the Hungarian population, or will we accept the LMP program and be 90 forints per kilowatt hour instead of 36? This is where we have to make a responsible decision, and I ask for your support and discretion. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-81	I thank the Minister for his reply. I'm asking the congresswoman if she'll accept the Minister's answer.
u2015-11-30-82	Well, I'm impressed with the Fidesz sense of sovereignty. This looks like heating the Hungarian streets with Russian gas, building Russian blocks with Russian money. Well, that's pretty transparent. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: Oh!]] Dear Minister, Your commitment to Putin is more of a depositary of this speech than of Hungary's sovereignty. Dear Minister, You are not aware that wind power plants in Hungary can generate energy at a price of 9 HUF. [[John Lazarus: 33 HUF!]] Dear Minister, I think it's amazing that you're trying to boast here with a nuclear power plant that [[János Lázár: Why is it not for that?]] it will be worth it to the Hungarian taxpayers if the price of electricity will rise by 75% over the period after 2035. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: Oh!]] Mr. Secretary, you know, it was pure propaganda you conducted. This does not relieve you of your obligation to the Hungarian taxpayers, which is about you trying to steal their money. [[There's a riot from the benches of the governing parties.]] And as long as you're here [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They govern, they want it on taxpayers' money, God knows who, they want it to be. Shame, Your Honor. I don't accept the answer. [[Sporadic and sporadic applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-83	Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote. Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: How does the LMP fraction vote? The faction isn't even here!]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 118 votes in favour, 11 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki and Zoltán Bóna, representatives of Fidesz, have submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: the Budapest-Belgrád railway in Sin! How does cooperation with China help the region to develop? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Bóna has the floor.
u2015-11-30-84	Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary. In July of this year, it was also heard publicly that the Far East country, as a new step towards opening up the East and cooperating with China, is providing significant help in developing rail connections with our southern neighbour, Serbia. China has announced a strategy called a "zone-one" which aims to strengthen trade relations with Europe. There is immediately competition on this continent about which European countries will play the most important role in implementing the strategy. Serbia and Hungary have joined forces to make these the two countries in Central Europe, which carry out the biggest transit flows in the framework of the strategy in trade between China and Europe. The Hungarian section of the railway line is 160 km, the cost of the investment in this section is 472 billion HUF. The aim is to reduce the travel time between the two capitals to 2.5-3 hours in passenger traffic, and to travel through Serbia and Hungary, the goods shipped by China to the port of Pyreus, destined for Western Europe. It is planned to make and electrify the railway line, and with the implementation of the project, freight trains with the highest axle pressure will also be able to run on the new track and trains in passenger traffic can reach speeds of up to 160 kilometres per hour. [[16.00]] The execution time is estimated to be two or a half years or less. Dear House, Hungary is the bridgehead of China's European economic expansion, the most effective cooperation in 66 years since the accession of diplomatic relations between the two countries. This is well demonstrated by the growing prosperity of economic relations with China in other areas, and there is a number of evidence. After growing trade and joint investments, the Central European Embassy of Chinese currency, the RMB clearing centre, opened in Budapest in early October. As far as tourism is concerned, the number of Chinese guest nights increased faster this year than last year. The Beijing-Budapest flight launched in May can further improve the dynamics of Chinese inbound tourism. Dear Secretary of State, I consider it particularly important that economic relations with a growing country like China are as fruitful as possible. An encouraging sign of this is the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State how cooperation with China will help the region to develop. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-85	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary László Szabó responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-30-86	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, as you have mentioned, the Chinese relationship is very important to us, not only because in 2010 the Hungarian Government announced the Eastern Opening Policy, and we consider this to be a reality from the point of view of administrative frameworks, but also because we can fill this relationship with more and more content and economic content. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It is very good news for us that last year, compared to the year before last year, Hungary had exports of $2.16 billion to China, which brought trade relations between Hungary and China to historical heights. President Xsi Jin-ping announced in 2013 the initiative of the "A road" which would practically create a more modern version of the medieval, ancient-medieval Silk Road on land and sea. It is a great pleasure for us that Hungary could be the first in Europe to conclude an agreement agreement this June on the fact that we would really like to participate actively in the opening of the Silk Road. It is no coincidence that the opening and closing of the Hungarian East to the West has taken place in China, and we really want to be the leader of this relationship. The agreement was concluded in June, and last week the 16+1 meeting took place in China, where we managed to conclude an agreement in the presence of Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, in which the financial framework of this process appears to be clarified, and it seems that this Budapest-Belgrád railway line can be implemented in the next two, two and a half years. What makes this special is that goods arriving on the Pireus ship will be able to reach the Eastern Central European region and Western Europe directly through us, so that we will be able to provide a very serious alternative to the traffic of goods that are currently going around and approaching Europe through north-western Europe. If Hungary can really play a strategic role with China, it can also help the flow of Chinese goods in Europe, and it can actively add sales, it can already be seen. That we were able to conclude a strategic agreement with Huawei and Wanhua Group, and that Huawei is now doing its entire European distribution through Hungary, it seems that we can already provide examples to prove that this initiative will be beneficial for Hungarian people, and that the added value that we can create will matter. Let us not forget that it is not only about the movement of Chinese goods to the West, but also about the fact that the production units here will also export to the rest of the world. So we would like to make this a two-way street and, of course, we would also like to give Hungarian manufacturing centres and logistics centres an active role in this. So our goal is to bring Hungarian and Chinese relations to a new level. Therefore, there was also a $500 million fund between the Chinese Development Bank and Exim to export Hungarian companies to China and to stimulate Chinese investments. I feel that we can be positive, and the sooner the project starts, the sooner we can enjoy the fruits of this relationship. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I salute my fellow Members. I'll ask Congressman Bona if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-30-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your detailed information. The project itself is unique because an EU country and a non-EU member participate together. It is a special joy that, in recent weeks, three-year cultural cooperation between our country and China has been signed, with the aim of further developing Hungarian-China cultural relations, promoting concrete links between the cultural wallets of the two countries and the diverse artistic branches of the cultural area. I am convinced that this relationship will continue to flourish in the near future. Thank you very much for your answer, I accept. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-89	Thank you very much, Congressman Bona. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for national politics:. 24 seats for 150 million - is the tree house expensive in Tusnádfürdő? ! It's an address. Mr László Kiss has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-90	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The campsite in Tusnádfürdő is very famous in the Carpathian Basin, as it is memorable that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán used to express his world-changing thoughts on the stage there in the summer. However, this camp is also famous for other reasons. It is noted that the Pro Minoritate Foundation, known as Zsolt Németh's organizer, builds camping houses twice as expensive there as a certified passive house built now. What's this about? The Bethlen Gábor Fund awarded the Pro Minoritate Foundation 150 million HUF for a two-page individual request for the renovation of the Tusnádfürdő camping. Consider, of course, the fact that in this letter there are only five lines of description of the project, even the question of how 180 people can fit in three wooden houses suitable for eight people, since the project actually speaks of 8 people and not 180 people. The cost of the three wooden houses is HUF 48 million. Compared to this, only HUF 21 million is included in the building permit submitted to the municipality, i.e. less than half of it. How much do they actually build these cabins? Or how much did they want to build because they weren't made? By the deadline of May 2015, nothing was completed, neither the said wooden houses, nor the conference room and dining room to be built for HUF 102 million. Moreover, this construction permit was requested two months after the end of the project. Following the Transylvanian Translator's publication of on-the-spot photos, the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which provided support, allegedly extended the deadline for implementation of the project by more than one year until 31 August 2016. But the real problem is here. So far, it has only been found that the foundation close to Fidesz is trying to steal money with the help of an overpriced investment project, but it is more serious that this procedure on the part of BGA also raises the suspicion of fraudulent treatment by decision-makers. This is an abuse of state wealth. This tender exercise is of grave concern to other applicants, as on the basis of which any candidate may say that I did not use it on this title, I ran out of deadline, no problem, I would also ask for an extension, not that, not then. I believe that this measure seriously undermines the entire tender system of the BGA. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: can any candidate then receive HUF 150 million on a two-page application? If, for any reason, it does not achieve this goal, will the settlement deadline be extended by one year without any problem? Please respond, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-30-91	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Árpád Potápi.
u2015-11-30-92	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear and dear fellow Members, I must decline the accusation of Congressman that Bethlen Gábor Alapkezelő Zrt. it would have acted unlawfully in the course of the grant. It is not clear that the extension of the contract would have taken place two months after the expiry of the term. [[16.10]] The chairman of the Board of the Pro Minoritate Foundation turned to Bethlen Gábor Alapkezelő Zrt. before the end of the 30th May term. I would like to change the duration of the contract due to the delay in obtaining building permits. On the basis of the request, the fund manager agreed to change the deadline for the project to 30 November 2015. In view of the request for a re-renewal of the supported contract, the fund manager decided that the deadline for completion of the project should be 31 August 2016, and otherwise there is nothing illegal about this. Bethlen Gábor Alapkezelő Zrt. ensure compliance with the legal framework in the event of the conclusion of all contracts, as is the case in this case, since the fund manager does not make an exception to the beneficiaries. Any applicant may request a change in the maturity in the event of failure to achieve the supported objective, a permanent obstacle, a delay or a change in any material circumstances. In all cases, the maturity adjustment is and has been done in accordance with the rules laid down in the clearing instructions. Bethlen Gábor Alapkezelő Zrt. the implementation of the project will be monitored on the basis of the technical and financial reports submitted, as provided for in the grant agreement. In connection with the development of the Tusnádfürdő campsite, the management and the supported tripartite contract entrusted a technical inspector to supervise the work on the spot and to inform the manager of the progress of the investment in the form of a report. By the way, this development is one of the upgrades of a camping site of 180 people. As you said, 150 million HUF is the development amount, which includes, on the one hand, the construction costs of the houses, the preparatory works, the purchase of the equipment in the houses, and the purchase of the necessary furniture, as well as the renovation of the water blocks in the camp area. Of course, whatever lawlessness we consider to be discovered, we will act in accordance with the law. I ask you, Congressman, to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-30-94	Mr State Secretary, I cannot accept the answer because it is clear from his reply that it was not then and was not paid for when the foundation was invested as it was asked. He didn't answer the small question that anyone who comes in from the street will receive 150 million forints from the state for a few pages. When he talks about understanding with furniture and soil works the camping site, which was built in an otherwise nail-lined area, where obviously very serious soil work must be done, he must have thought of some gold-plated, Renaissance putts, which would so boost the value of this building complex. I think that we are talking about unrealistic amounts, and the procedure itself is unrealistic. It is unrealistic that you have to extend a year for an application, because, by the way, who is applying - again I quote - did not ask for the permissions for the investment at the time of the expiry of the tender. That's why I can't accept the answer.
u2015-11-30-95	Thank you very much. So I ask the Parliament whether it accepts the State Secretary's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr.Előd Novak, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. How many times does it take two weeks for order, or how long will the activities of our kind to maintain public security be punished, like prostitution? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation. Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2015-11-30-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for not making it any further, and finally, I trust one of the porters in the case, Mr Secretary of State's substantive response to it as an eternal hope. Dear Secretary of State, Károly Papp's national police commissioner, however, stopped his time, not even two weeks later; indeed, even his home could have recently been looted near the Teve Street police palace. For even though Viktor Orbán generously promised in 2010 that they would clean up in two weeks, this did not even happen today. Therefore, it was a particularly big mistake on the part of Fidesz of Pökhend, that even after the ban on the Hungarian Guard, the violation law was added absurdly to the wording of the forbidden prostitution by the fact that anyone who carries out activities in the public domain aimed at maintaining public security, public order or such appearances is committing an offence. For this reason, I may also be subject to infringement proceedings, after watching in September in front of Károly Papp's national police chief's loft, in the framework of the year of volunteering announced by Jobbik, to draw attention to the crime that still exists in the vicinity of the Teve street police palace. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] The consequences of my voluntary patrol, which can be considered civil disobedience, of course, I will waive my immunity, Mr. Secretary of State. The fact that the National Police Commissioner's residence home could have been looted is also a sign that the police are unable to carry out their duties, so voluntary organisation is necessary for the purpose of public security, public order, flood and other disaster protection and even border protection. It is a mistake to maintain the dictatorship that the former constitute a state monopoly, but rather to channel the voluntary forces under official control and control; this is what Jobbik will do. It is also unacceptable that, in order to find the national police commissioner Károly Papp's watches, a DNA test was carried out after their theft, so I would like to know how many percent of the burglaries live with it. From the answer to my written question to the Minister of the Interior, we already know that the only phone theft at Orbán Rachel's wedding last year was the one where the National Bureau of Investigation conducted a genetic investigation, even if its cost was more than ten times the value of the stolen mobile device. Then, absurdly, the NNI's Department of Life Protection required 26 persons to be tested for DNA, humiliatingly, only among the serving staff, not among the crowded guest army. Now there is a similar public uproar that, during the regency of the government of the rich, the investigating authority again applies double standards, since in the case of similar grievances of ordinary people, there is no chance of genetic testing. Dear Secretary of State, I look forward to your reply admitting your failure and recognising the need to amend the Violation Act [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And in that case, I will accept it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-97	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-30-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, the police do not apply double standards in any procedure, everyone is equal before the law, regardless of age, gender, denomination, race, therefore, honourable Member, no origin - whether ethnic or otherwise - does not exempt the perpetrator of a crime, offence or other violation from having to bear the consequences of his actions. We believe, by the way, that there is more than one crime, one more than acceptable, but we have not promised that every crime will cease to be a crime. We are doing everything we can to improve public safety, and I have said this several times this day, and I would not repeat it now, the point is that the Hungarian people live more safely today than five and a half years ago, the Hungarian reforms are working. In the course of investigations, the police report on the 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. It shall act in accordance with the provisions of the law and shall in any case seek to clarify the whole facts, including all incriminating and mitigating evidence relating to the crime. Where, during an investigation, there is a possibility that DNA remains may be found either at the crime scene or on the device used to commit the crime, they shall be recorded and tested comparatively. [[16.20]] The police will continue to carry out their tasks related to the maintenance of public order and public security, in cooperation with law enforcement bodies and the civil guards, in cooperation with the local authorities, by prioritising the organisation of common services. If any citizen wishes to contribute to the improvement of public safety, it is possible to do so in the civil society associations with a long tradition and practice, which have a detailed and adequate legal background, honourable Member. If you, the Jobbik faction, or yourself, are truly interested in further strengthening public order and public security, then I ask that the police stop attacking the order, support order, public security, and adopt these laws by giving a vote in favour of Hungary's security. I trust that since I have answered all your questions, you will accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-30-100	Dear Secretary of State, I specifically asked two questions. One of them is rather general; it is a question of subjective judgement whether you have responded to this. The other is how many of these burglaries have DNA testing, considering a watch theft. He didn't answer that at all, and I think it should have been, because I submitted this in writing in the middle of the week before this. I think that if everyone is indeed equal before the law, as you have referred to, then the double standard cannot be accepted. For example, for the last example, in Gábor Kubatov's case, 378 DNA tests were carried out in the case of a stretched molino, as my fellow party György Szilágyi pointed out. It is also unacceptable to consider as an attack on the order that we speak out as pro-policeists to protect the Hungarian people, when in the spirit of double standards you do not deal with the public safety of ordinary Hungarian people. The Hungarian police should be dealing with this, they shouldn't be on the border. That is why I should finally accept the various civil assistance measures, which is why I am asking for legislative amendments, and therefore I cannot accept the present meaningless response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-101	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 7 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Benedek Sallai, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. When can Hungarian farmers know the identity of the buyers of state land? It's an address. Congressman Sallai Benedek has the floor.
u2015-11-30-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In view of the fact that Minister Fazekas is not here personally, I will spare you now to express my devastating opinion on land privatisation and to tell you how much of a villain I think he is. So, on the subject of speech, interpellation, I would like to know that their promise, as they have established, is that the whole process will be transparent and that the data will be available when it is realized. Obviously, I do not wish to deviate from the content of my interpellation, so, as I did in writing, I would like to know when and how Hungarian society, the Hungarian economy, will know who is buying land and under what conditions. I was at several bids in person, and in several cases I had to experience a dial number telling me who the winner was. We do not know who is buying the Hungarian land, but this would be a minimum expectation in the sale of state land. We are obviously aware of the fact that it will be posted, but Hungarian society cannot go through the 3200 settlements in order to find out who bought it. Perhaps it would be expected of the NFA to share information about this with Hungarian society. I respectfully ask, Mr Secretary, when this can be expected, when the Hungarian people will know who is buying land at the moment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-30-103	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-11-30-104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, Do you think in a country where public property records are available to anyone soon, thanks to the public rent reduction, how can the owner of a property be hidden free of charge? In my opinion - I hope you agree with me - that is not possible. The person who offers the highest price at the auction may not even be the owner of the auction land. Under the new land traffic law that has been in force for almost two years, all sales contracts must be publicly suspended for 60 days and may announce their purchase claim for any pre-purchase within that 60-day period. During the auctioning of public land, pre-purchase holders can also receive preferential loans, so they should not be put at a disadvantage. Congressman wants to know the names of the auction winners. If an auctioneer withdraws after the bid and replaces the second best bidder, will you still announce the original winner to a new landowner? If, after the auction, you are entitled to any pre-purchase right during the 60-day period and replace the successful bidder, will the auction winner still be the new owner of the land for you? I am confident that the questions that have been asked have shed some light on the system that the farmers of the real farmers are fortunately aware of in the past, and they know precisely that the person who makes the highest bid at the auction may not actually be the owner of the land at all. Since the auctions are public and offer all farmers the same opportunities to participate, I recommend to Congressman that you not only cover the manure in front of the auction sites, but also encourage it to rise above... [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-11-30-105	Excuse me, Secretary of State, I'll wait for Congressman Haughty to take his place. Congressman Haughty! Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-30-106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, You are also a farmer, you can receive a reduced loan, following the example of thousands of other farmers, and you can bid for some of the 2300 hectares of land that you previously wanted from the state. In the course of the bidding, you can learn more about the relevant legislation. Honourable Congressman, Since mid-October, no one has acquired ownership of state land, since the auctions started on 16 November, but no one has ever acquired ownership of the land. Moreover, it is expected that this year, in view of the legal requirements, no one will acquire property, since ownership is created by the registration of real estate. I would therefore like to reassure the Member that the list of actual owners can be found both on the NFA website and on the public property register, both by you and by anyone else, as this is his right as a subject. NFA did not receive any forints and thus did not spend any money on IT development. The fact that there was such a proposal and that you made it public as a fact does not mean that it is true. In the same way, it is false that, at the auction in Győr on 24 November, a foreign citizen would have bought an 88-acre property, since his name is Pál Meixner and he is a Hungarian citizen. About 60 percent of the land announced for auction was sold and sold after most substantial price competitions. The MFB's preferential credit facility generated a loan guarantee of HUF 120 billion in less than two weeks of auction week, so this shows the success of the program. I thank you for your attention and ask my fellow Members for my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-107	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. I will ask Congressman Sallai R. Benedek if he will accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2015-11-30-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is certainly also known to the Secretary of State that living with pre-emptive rights in the case of land purchases will take place at approximately 1 percent. I didn't ask the question of who the owners were for a reason. I asked who the winners of the bid were. Whether there is public money in it and whether 1.3 billion or not has been added: let us not forget that the NFA is farming out of 2.5 billion. If he had an IT system to collect everything on land leases, he could, at the moment, have a clear view of the bidders. The biggest problem with this is obviously that you say that this is a success because 60 percent have found a farmer so far. So far, you've claimed that there is so much hunger for land that small farmers will storm you, compared to that, we're talking about a few hundred people who can do that. He says I could buy some. Well, no, because most small and medium-sized farmers, family farmers, can't do it because they can't take advantage of this opportunity because they don't have a financial background to do it. [[Noise.]] Consequently, this answer cannot be accepted. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-109	Thank you. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. [[16.30]] Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, Member of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:. What about the people working in the Vértes Power Plant? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2015-11-30-110	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, As you know, Vértesi Erőmű Zrt. its coaly section will be closed at the end of December. On 2 September 2015, the CEO of the Vértes Power Plant and Péter Csiba, Chairman and CEO of MVM informed the employees that the originally planned waste fuel will not be converted, so the blocks will be preserved until the decision on the power plant development is taken. In 2010, Fidesz agreed with the employees' representatives who considered it reckless that the MVM would close the Lion's Vértes Force. The dismissal of workers and the closure of the power plant were avoided when MVM planned to convert the Vértes Power Plant to waste fuel by introducing the most modern technology, in addition to and because of the tightening of environmental standards. That's what they were telling you, right, the people who worked there? At the inauguration of the Jubilee Awards, in intimate moments, at the beginning of September, workers were informed that they could not switch to the new technology. Of course, if the technological changes had been completed in September and the workers had been retrained, they could have continued their work. As this did not happen, the majority of the staff cuts concern physical staff, 243 people, 104 skilled workers, 130 trained workers and 9 skilled workers. reporting. In 2015, hundreds of people have ceased working and are no longer receiving any benefits by the end of the year. Further placement of 50-60-year-old workers in current labour market conditions seems almost impossible. In addition, after 20-35 years of employment, many families lose and lose their power relief. In a letter, the trade unions initiated consultations with several State Secretarys-General and Members of Parliament to do their best to help the employees of the power plant continue their work in the electricity industry, within it. Please don't give me a political answer, Mr. Secretary. We're talking about people here, and as Christmas approaches, let's do something good for these people so they can feel they won't lose their jobs completely. I would like to ask how workers close to retirement age will continue to be employed, knowing that they no longer have much of a chance of finding employment in the current labour market. I would like to know how, in the current rapidly developing energy world, it is possible that the action plan has not been properly prepared. How do you intend to provide these people with the right job? And really, don't give me a political answer, Mr. Secretary, but tell me what will happen to these people after 31 December. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-11-30-111	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-11-30-112	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Employees close to retirement age may be placed under the regulations of the Hungarian Electricity Works Group Collective Agreement, as set out in the Annex. For the workers involved in this process, interest representatives will also help to develop the right solution; for the sake of your professional response, I say that this is Article 66 of the Labour Code. Pursuant to paragraphs 4 and 6 of Section 4, this is done on the basis of an agreement reached between the interest representatives and the Vértes Power Plant on this subject. The employer, in compliance with the rules of protection laid down in the Labour Code, seeks to find a suitable job for workers, mothers or fathers who reach the retirement age within five years, or raise their children alone. The termination of employment in these cases shall only be possible if the employee rejects the offer. The Hungarian Electricity Works continuously investigates Vértesi Erőmű Zrt. under rapidly changing conditions. the re-use of its site by resettlement of new alternative activities. The studies also cover regulatory, technical, environmental and economic financing issues. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Fidesz can hardly be accused of not doing everything in the interests of the Vértes Power Plant, even around 2000 I wore a t-shirt that wore the inscription for the Vértes retrofit. We put a lot of money in it. I couldn't. The world is so cruel. These coal power plants cannot be maintained. On this day, we received cold and warm from our fellow Member in a similar political position. It is also part of the story, and I say this with a very difficult heart, because of the Members who have passed away, as they say, or good or nothing, but the current situation in Vértes has also been contributed by the business maneuvers of your former fellow Member, which we criticized in the walls of this House; but in a different government situation, when you were in the government and we in the opposition, we were beaten down with it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and To ensure the right jobs, Vértesi Erőmű Zrt. prioritises the placement of the workers concerned with greater care. The company contacted the employers of the regional industrial park with the involvement of the Liony district office of Komárom-Esztergom County Government Office in order to improve the job opportunities of the workers affected by group reduction. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In a given situation, the government can facilitate the resolution of the situation that you have raised in a way that is completely humanly understandable by the regulatory environment and these measures. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-113	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-30-114	Unfortunately, there is one reason why I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply, because from 1 January to this day, most of these people do not know what will happen to him. As I have said, the labour market situation in this region is one where these people do not know, even though they enter the district office, they will not know how they will receive their salaries from 1 January, how they will pay their checks, what they will live on. In addition, as far as I know, the reserve only applies to people who can retire in three years' time. That's a small number compared to the people we're talking about. We're waiting for solutions. The energy strategy has been completed, but the action plan has not been completed. We didn't say the coal power plant had to go further, we said that you had promised a new technology that you would be able to continue to employ people. That's what's missing. So, unfortunately, on January 1st, these people will be on the street. Right now, they don't know what they're gonna make from January 1st. It's unacceptable to me. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-115	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. How many times does it take two weeks for order in North-East Hungary to stop killing? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2015-11-30-116	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I'm not gonna beat around the bush, there's total chaos in the northeast region. I have spoken in several speeches about the extremely bad public safety conditions, but, of course, they have found deaf ears, and I have received meaningless answers. Mr. Secretary. I assure you, you'll hear the problems until you get to the better government, and then we'll see why they didn't want to eliminate them. Even though they brag about statistics, their police captains say that there is order, there is excellent reconnaissance rates, prevention is weak, the residents, especially the elderly, live in fear and even in fear. [[16.40]] They also get the joke of bad children's toys, the screaming keychain, the door opener on the outskirts of the city, when they stop by after dark, raid the chambers, take away the last bag of noodles; and the police are helplessly suggesting that they buy a dog or move to a nursing home. They send 20-year-old policemen to the streets, who have no idea what to do in a lively situation, let's say, in a starting lynch mood, but imagine, though I know, it is difficult from the velvet chair, that in certain parts Hungarians cannot stay or live in Hungary, because they are harassed by standing up for themselves and lynching them. Fortresses need to be built, houses are stolen in front of law enforcement agencies, public areas are turned into toilets, and outside areas become garbage. People have given up helping the police, which is why you don't get signs of problems. The media, whether local or national, is concerned only with the self-cooling of fidesz leadership, is not about reality, they are presenting a false reality image to people who do not even know what is in their own remote settlement. You think it's okay. Mr. Secretary? Is there really order in Hungary? They left our borders unprotected, and now they're taking hundreds of our police officers to do border security tasks, but they don't care about their care anymore - we've seen this with our own eyes during the summer - tired, frustrated, self-evident, from where they're taken away, there's a shortage; it's not you, it's all those vulnerable people. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you, why, with years of work, they've turned law enforcement into impotent, and they're just making statistics, and they're admins. Why leave the population, the elderly, unprotected? If you don't believe my statements, Mr. Secretary of State, then we have a lot of love for you in Borsod County, and together we can make sure what's going on there right now. I look forward to your direct answer from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-117	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-30-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If there's anything in your county that they're afraid of - I don't know if that's true - it's the rumors of you and your fellows. You paint reality black, try to make unreal things look real. And the fact that police and law enforcement have been impotent, I refuse. During today, I have repeatedly said the results that the Hungarian law enforcement agencies have achieved in the last five and a half years, for which I thank you, and as a result I can say that today people live in Hungary more safely than five and a half years ago. I would also like to state here, honourable Member, that the Hungarian police in all the settlements of Hungary are taking decisive action against all criminals in order to ensure the safety of people's lives and property, public order and public security. Honourable Congressman, Let's see what we've done in your county, where you're inviting me, and where I'm going to visit, I've been there before. Let's see. In the area of competence of the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Police Department, we organised the strengthening of the settlements with police presence in 358 municipalities, as well as fully covered by the district commissioners of all settlements. At least 75 per cent of the duration of the 254 principal district commissioner's service in the public area, and they keep in constant contact with citizens living in settlements. 68 district offices were established to strengthen this relationship. Mr President, these are facts, and they are also facts, as I said earlier in replying to the question of several of your fellow Members, that the bodies of representatives and assemblies discuss the situation of public security annually in a given settlement. I would like to explain the results of the reports in the county of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén: the report of the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Police Department was adopted by the county assembly with 22 votes in favour, 5 against and zero abstentions; the report of the Miskolc Police Department with 17 yes, 5 no, 4 abstentions; the report of the Edelényi Police Department with 10 yes, zero, zero, zero, unanimously; the report of the Kazincbarcika Police Department with 14 yes, zero, zero, zero, no, unanimously; the report of the Mezőközösd Police Department with 10 yes, zero, 1 abstentions; the report of the Ózd Police Department with 14 yes, zero, zero, zero abstentions; the report of the Police Department of Sárospataki with 10 yes, zero, zero, no; the report of the Police Department with 0, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no Honourable Congressman, If the public safety was as bad as you started it to be chaos, these reports would not have been accepted by the bodies. I have been a municipal representative for 20 years, and I know that the bodies are discussing these reports critically, in accordance with reality, for the benefit of the people living in the settlements, and if it were not appropriate for public security, then these reports would be certified by the fellow Members by a non-voting vote. I'm asking you to stop disturbing, spreading rumors, intimidated people. You intimidate people in Borsod County and all over the country. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Congressman, you're not on the side of the order, you're on the side of the mess. [[György Balla: That's right!]] I ask you to stop this behaviour, and if you really care about order, calmness, security, which is the most important community value today, then support the proposals submitted by the government or the Fidesz-KDNP fraction to this end. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Crying out of the ranks of the governing parties: "Yes!]]
u2015-11-30-119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-30-120	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. I am very sorry that, because of party policy goals, he was forced to read such a poor answer to the paper. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I understand that this is your job, but then I'd like to refer to a few facts. People don't feel safe, and there are two reasons why they don't feel safe, including in Borsod County: one is the huge presence of criminals, and the other is your policy, which they testify to in the course of law enforcement. This, as I said in my interpellation, is factual, Mr Secretary of State, that old people do not dare to stay in their houses alone because they are robbed, attacked, murdered. By the way, police statistics improve when they improve, because, believe me, Secretary of State, in North-East Hungary, they don't even call the police for a simple theft, the police are called out when there's blood, so if there's no problem, then the statistics are in order. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I think we need to go out on the street and ask people. I can't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-121	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes in favour, 12 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final interpellation follows. Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Why didn't 150,000 young people in Hungary last year have a job or couldn't learn? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2015-11-30-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Many kinds of surveys, including the International Labour Organisation, the ILO survey, support what I say and ask. Based on the 2014 series, the proportion of those aged 15-24 in Hungary who do not work or study is significant, 14 percent do not participate in any kind of training. Do you understand? ! Within the 15-24-year-old population, where the most active should be in terms of employment or training, the acquisition of professional knowledge. [[Several congressmen are talking standing up. The president's ringing the bell.]] About 1 million people are affected by this age group based on 2014 data, and this means that about 150,000 young people are in a situation where - once again - they neither work nor study nor participate in any training. That's one of the big problems. The other big problem is that besides those who do not work or participate in the acquisition of knowledge, you have banished many people and young people from this country with the policy they are pursuing. There are obviously similar situations in other countries, in Italy and Bulgaria, even worse than in Hungary, but there are also better ones, especially in the countries that are northerly, such as the Netherlands, Norway and Denmark, where this situation is much better. [[16.50]] There are 5-5.5 percent and 6 percent respectively. [[It's constant noise.]] Those who do not work or study within this age group. I know you don't care about that, and that's what you see from your current attitude, but the problem is, you know, this society is going to die in this, and it's killing you that these young people either leave the country, or they can't work, or they're not involved in acquiring knowledge, and it's obviously defining the future. You have dual training and even more public employment in mind, these two things are always spoken of. With regard to dual training, I think there is even a reason for this story, although not in the way you do it. But in terms of public employment, unfortunately, in most cases, you see these people as statistical subjects. The problem is that over five years of government have passed, and over half a million people have left this country, and there are many young people among them. Actually, I have one question: what are you going to do, and when are you going to do something about it, so that the future generation does not leave the country, but has a job opportunity, against appropriate salaries, and can ensure that generations run before them exist? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-123	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2015-11-30-124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, If I may, after not presenting the full text of your interpellation to the Parliament, I would like to add a sentence that you have written in your interpellation. He mentioned Croatia and Bulgaria, where the indicator is worse than ours, but in the interpellation he said a little bit more that the situation in Italy, Greece and Spain is no better than it is in us. I am saying this because you yourself admitted that, in recent years, we have achieved significant results in the employment of young people in Hungary. But that is so, as you have admitted, I would like to say some numbers and some of the tools that have helped us to achieve this. Let's look at the data. Between the third quarter of 2012 and the third quarter of 2015, the number of young people aged 15-24 in employment increased by more than 69 thousand in Hungary. As a result, the employment rate increased from 19.2 per cent to 26.7 per cent. In parallel, the youth unemployment rate fell from 29.1 per cent to 16.7 per cent. There was no such increase in employment before the crisis. In addition, in 2014, only 2.3 percent of inactive young people under the age of 25 indicated that their inactivity was due to job inaccessible. Let's look at what the government is doing to ensure that young people who are not studying or working, whose numbers have been reduced by around 26 thousand between 2013 and 2014. One of these tools is the job security operation. Each month of 2014 130-150,000 young people were helped by the training that helped young people to get their work experience with significant EU and domestic support, and the programmes supporting entrepreneurial development were worth tens of billions of forints from 2011. In order to further reduce the number of non-student non-workers, we will implement the Youth Guarantee package with HUF 200 billion from the EU funds available between 2014-20. As early as this year, the Hungarian Youth Guarantee is guaranteed to help young people under the age of 25 who are looking for a permanent job. Between 2014-20, the programme package will help at least 180 thousand young people under 25 years of age to get a job or a job, or to start programmes to encourage internships or entrepreneurs. It also facilitates the entry of young people into the labour market of measures to promote dual training, as you mentioned, in the field of vocational training and higher education. In the academic year 2016-17, the government further expands the scholarship to fill the skills gap and dual training was launched in 2015 in higher education institutions (19 of these institutions) in order to develop student competences relevant to industry. The early school transition programmes helped at least 16,000 students in the course of 2015, while EU-funded school drop-out programmes will help thousands of students in 2016. So after describing these data and intentions, please accept my reply. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-125	Thank you, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. I ask Mr. Congressman, Mr. notary, whether you will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-30-126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You can't accept that answer. The Secretary of State still needs to practice because, in terms of unemployment, he needs to see that the vast majority of those who enter public employment come from unemployment; the vast majority of those who leave abroad are from statistics, and you are pursuing them abroad, you are creating this situation. You did not offer solutions two and six years ago that were about what rescue action programmes will be announced and implemented, but promised a million new jobs in the economy. You said that by far the vast majority of people will have a better income position, so they will have a decent salary. It's not like that. They're driving people out of here, that's the biggest problem, and even young people and experts are making this country impossible. This shame, this horror, that's why you can't accept that answer! Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-127	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. [[Some of the representatives leave the meeting room.]] Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can the papals count on you, Prime Minister?" The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer his urgent public duty. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-11-30-128	I would like to continue the discussion with Prime Minister on the matter of the papal meat factory a year ago, so I would like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-129	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question entitled "Csontváry-képek" Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2015-11-30-130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, As a representative of Pécs and a citizen of Pécs, I am now coming to you with my question, worrying that the pictures of Csontváry Kosztka Tivadar delivered from Pécs will be returned to Pécs in February 2016. I know that many questions have already been asked and many answers have been received, but I am very pleased that you can answer in person now, Minister, because although I often do not accept your answer, you do answer directly and honestly. Zsolt Páva, the Fidesz mayor of Pécs, said that he would not be pleased if these pictures were not returned to Pécs, although we do not expect any concrete answers from him. Péter Hoppál, Secretary of State, confronting you, said that they would return, we can be sure that these pictures would be taken by Pécs. However, in his last interview in one of the newspapers, he said that if these pictures were taken from Pécs, the city would expect some sort of compensation. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has also spoken about this issue, and he has left this obligation to return to Pécs, as you have said, Minister; an idea contest that does not pose any danger of returning this series of images to Pécs, because they are now just ideas. Minister, as a citizen of Pécs, I would like no idea as to whether these images will be returned to Pécs. [[17.00]] In 2010, Pécs, as the cultural capital of Europe, was very proud of this picture group, which was exhibited in Pécs, and we are also emotionally attached to it. Please remove the doubts so that the Pécs can be sure that these images will be returned in February. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-11-30-131	Thank you, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-11-30-132	Thank you very much. Mr President, First of all, I would like to assure all citizens of the city of Pécs that the Csontváry exhibition held in the former building of the Honvéd High Command in the Buda Castle, which is an unprecedented success, and the Lone Cedar is his name giver, which, thanks to the bank president Járai Zsigmond, became Hungarian state property, the pictures of this exhibition will be returned to Pécs. I agree with you that the idea of posterity must always be taken into consideration, but one thing I recommend to you is that, as far as you need to be careful with the ideas of posterity, you have to take the master's ideas so seriously, the creative artist himself has his own ideas. The idea of putting Csonváry's six pictures in a separate exhibition in a separate museum is the idea of Csonváry himself. On the back of an envelope, Csontváry sketched what this museum should look like and what six images he sees as an opportunity to place in this museum. Why is this important today? The idea of Csontváry with six photos to create a war museum in front of those dead, and he wanted to express his sympathy to the relatives who stayed there during World War I; the plan of Csontváry was to prepare such an exhibition by 1918, such a permanent museum. I know few artists who would have designed their own museum so carefully, but few were more unsuccessful, since the struggle of Gideon Gerlóczy never resulted in Csontváry's own museum in Budapest. The very, very talented architect, heir who discovered Csontváry's oeuvre, saved it in adventurous circumstances, provided it in Hungary and in the world, planned for the 1970s to have a great Csontváry museum in Budapest. We are not working on the implementation of this plan, we do not want to take anything from Pécs; we just want to know what the Hungarian Architect Society thinks about how the idea of Csontváry in the 10s can be achieved by 2018, the centennial anniversary of the end of the First World War. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-133	Thank you, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-11-30-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, His first sentence would have reassured me, but then what he went on to do was to a great extent not. Respecting the master's will and vision, we will probably never know what he would think now about how a 140, unfortunately only 140 000 community is connected to his images, and how important it is that such wonderful images are placed in a rural town, and how important this is for the people living there. And the reason I ask you to consider this issue even at an idea level is because 12,000 people have left Pécs in the last three years, no jobs, no opportunities. Cultural goods are very important, very important, and we would like it to enrich Pécs, and as a rural city we should be proud that such wonderful pictures were placed in Pécs. Thank you.
u2015-11-30-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2015-11-30-136	Thank you very much. I think that I may be one of the fellow citizens who is interested in outsider, but I am interested in culture and fine arts, and therefore I appreciate the efforts of the citizens of Pécs to create the Zsolnay quarter or the Kodály center. And believe me that within the Hungarian government, I will help all citizens of Pécs, regardless of party standing, to preserve and save this cultural value. It is not in the interest of the Hungarian State to harm the cultural interests of Pécs. That's an idea. It is in all our interests to give the First World War the proper respect, and perhaps there is a great opportunity for us to achieve the dream of Csontváry. We do not know that, which is why we turn to the Hungarian architects. We do not decide ahead and then ask for their opinions, but we are asking for opinions, as we have tried several times over the last hundred years, to see how one of the dreams of Csontváry can be achieved. This cannot, of course, be at the expense of the city of Pécs, so we need a good compromise, a good consensus, if there is anything at all. I'll reassure him that we'll consult with you and all the pecs. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-137	Thank you, Minister Lazarus. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.. Why does Viktor Orbán's friends always take the greasy public and municipal shops? What chance did this happen? The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer his urgent public duty. I ask the Member if he will accept the Minister appointed to reply.
u2015-11-30-138	Mr President, due to the importance of this question, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-139	Thank you. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How many times does it take two weeks for order? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply. I ask Congressman Staudt if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-11-30-140	I'll take it. Thank you.
u2015-11-30-141	Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2015-11-30-142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr Secretary, when you answered the questions asked by my fellow Members, you repeatedly mentioned that we are attacking public safety and people. No, we are attacking you because you are unable to create public safety, and the answer is not what percentage of the body of representatives has accepted public safety reports on the ground, since there is mostly a fidesz majority in these bodies of representatives. If they didn't accept this, they'd be facing the Fidesz government. By the way, if you look at how many opposition representatives have rejected or abstained, it would be more decisive, or if people were asked in these settlements, believe me, another outcome would come out. We cannot vote in favour of the packages, you have criminalised the illegal organisation and execution of public safety activities, so that if Btk amendments are tabled in which they are included, similar proposals are made, we cannot support them in salad. We, on the other hand, have made a suggestion, and this is nothing more than in the case of an antifreeze wine farmer who has already been told by my fellow Member Szilágyi, or in the case of which we would like it not to be criminalised if a device in someone's apartment or fenced area had caused the intruder a grievance that would not have happened without this unlawful intrusion. We believe that the fact that a person today holds a thinner in a bottle of brandy, Mr. Secretary of State, is likely to threaten him with life imprisonment, since in the case of the antifreeze wine farmer, the judge said that the case could be convicted of life imprisonment, even as a result of a premeditated crime committed on a vile basis. Therefore, I ask Mr Secretary of State: do you support our lex borosgazda submission? I could say that, Mr. Secretary, if public safety and order are important to you, you will support this motion. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-30-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, How wrong you are, let me give you a specific example. Just now, our fellow Member, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, painted the state of the county very black, and I quoted the decision of the representative bodies of the Borsod County municipalities to take a stand on the police report on the public security of the settlement. You just said that they accepted it because these are fidesz majority cities with leadership. I quoted and recall to my fellow Member the report of the Ozd Police Department, which was adopted by the Assembly on 28 May 2015 with 14 votes in favour, zero negatives and zero abstentions. And there is no Fidesz mayor in the city of Ozd, unfortunately, Ozd is led by a better mayor, and the better-looking mayor has voted in favour of the adoption of the report. Congressman, you are an excellently qualified lawyer: if there were so much trouble with public security in the city of Ozd, which is part of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, then obviously the mayor would take the flag and raise it high that there is no order, the Parliament and the Ministry of Interior and the Government would ask for help. But, well, he accepted and voted in favour of the police department's report. At the next session, when this is back on the agenda, I will quote the mayor's comment, which was made public at the assembly meeting. So, Congressman, I would like to say once again that there is a greater order in Hungary today, and people live more safely. We would also like to achieve better results, and if this is very important to you, please support our proposals. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[17.10]]
u2015-11-30-145	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-11-30-146	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, we should look at national statistics. One or two can, of course, be taken. I believe that, in many cases, where it is accepted, there is also a vote in favour of the police's efforts, not government policy. And here in Parliament, we need to take the government's policy and the government's efforts, and we can confront you with that. I am also looking forward to the answer to my question, which would be an appropriate answer to our proposal, the lex winemaker - and I have said its essence - and not a salad proposal that you have put forward, but one that would only be a specific answer to this problem. Can you support this and do you have any legislative work going on in the background so that people who want to protect their property, their property, are not threatened with life imprisonment? Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi intervenes. A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-30-147	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-30-148	Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr. Congressman, if I said statistics so far, I said that the number of crimes that have become known has decreased by 100,000, then they said that the problem is not to say statistics, but how people feel. Now I'm telling you how the people of Ózdon feel, the Members, to accept the report, to feel that there is better public security, order, then that's the problem. Congressman, what's wrong now? If I'm translating people's feelings, shall I put it in writing or the statistics? None of them are good for you. You know what the problem is? The problem is that Jobbik's popularity has fallen. Now they're making an Attak in Parliament... [[György Szilágyi: Secretary of State, do you support order in the country, with your vote on Jobbik's proposal?]] They're making an Attak in Parliament -- four interpellations before the agenda, two immediate questions -- to sort this out. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Lex wine farmer?]] Congressman, you have failed with this proposal. [[György Szilágyi: Do you support Jobbik's proposal with your vote?]] I can't... [[György Szilágyi: Do you support it?]] Can I continue and you want my opinion? I've been approached. So once again, I want you to decide what you want, the statistics, or the opinions of the people. ? [[György Szilágyi: Do you support the proposal, Mr Secretary of State?]] We would like to offer this together, we would like better public security, if you would help us in this, we would like to thank you. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Do you support our proposal, Mr State Secretary? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'm sure you didn't hear me. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Erzsébet Schmuck, the representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer. I ask the Member whether he accepts Minister Lazarus' reply.
u2015-11-30-150	I would accept it in all other respects, but I would like to hear the Prime Minister's opinion on this matter, if you don't mind. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-151	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: "Who is in the interest of the repeated attack on rail and thus on public transport? The Minister asked Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to reply. I'll ask him if he'll accept the response. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yes.]] You have the floor, Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2015-11-30-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the last few days, it has been possible to read again about thinning flights, and now, after the socialists, it is what you expect to reduce costs. However, it will cause irreparable damage if the government implements destructive measures at sectoral level rather than the establishment of a single Community transport system. By citing the Fox Age, they decided to reduce the use of rail flights, while they could have worked to increase the utilisation. Moreover, a substantial cost reduction cannot be achieved by deleting some trains. It is incomprehensible why more efficient use of tools and better service for passengers is not envisaged. Their recent measures only help to reduce public transport. With this step, you will not increase efficiency, not improve the quality of service, but simply reduce public transport. Without good quality public transport, there is no successful country, and without a successful countryside, Hungary is not successful. Secretary of State, please explain why passengers have fallen again in rail transport, why they have been unable to achieve a more attractive service. I would like to know who made the proposal to shut down the individual trains and whether there is still such a proposal in the loop, whether they plan to do the same during the year. Have studies been carried out as to how much of their actions will the number of passengers fall again? What exactly is the cost reduction of one and a half billion forints? Finally, I would like to know whether the integrated timetable and the establishment of a single Community transport system have been formally rejected. Thank you.
u2015-11-30-153	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-11-30-154	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I agree with practically every word you say about the task, purpose, and substance of the railway, and I believe that the government has demonstrated with its work over the last five years that we are working for these. Excuse me, your starting point is wrong. You consider 47 of the 2,900 flights to be an extra government measure of 1 percent of the average winter-summer change of schedule. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The railway has a winter-summer schedule, so many changes in each of them. As to the fact that the press' statements about the professional conference had been made before it, which was badly and early, I myself was amazed, disapproval, and drew the attention of the competent manager to think about what he was saying in public. But the government's actions, more specifically the railway's measures, because the government does not set the timetable, but the Hungarian State Railways, concern 47 flights, as I said. Such a change will be again in six months. By the way, with respect to thinning, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, where traffic is greatest, for example, on suburban lines, we have significantly expanded both flights and passenger traffic. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-155	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2015-11-30-156	Mr State Secretary, I am very pleased that you are disproved of the thinning of flights, and that is indeed the case, because we know that public transport is extremely important for the countryside, especially for disadvantaged rurals. If the flights were to occur, unfortunately, it would confirm that the countryside would be more depopulated, that there would be no work nearby, and that more and more people would be forced to go abroad. So I'm glad that Mr. Secretary of State denies that. We would also like to ask that the government keep this in mind and make it strictly accountable to the railway, the MÁV. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-157	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2015-11-30-158	Thank you very much. Just to be specific: trains run more frequently on the Budapest-Tatabánya suburban line, during certain periods on the Budapest-Százhalombatta suburban line, on the newly rebuilt Budapest-Székesfehérvár line the route of certain suburban flights is extended. On the Budapest-Győr side, domestic intercity trains run on an hourly basis from 13 December, which is an otherwise valid suggestion of the schedule, with the end stop in Sopron, one hour on Saturday and the next hour on Saturday. Overall, therefore, the government is rail-friendly and we will continue to strive to ensure that the public is able to see and grow opportunities. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-159	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Use MSZP Csillebérce for campaign purposes? It's an address. I'll ask you if you'll accept the response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[Sándor Kovács: Yes.]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Sándor Kovács. [[17.20]]
u2015-11-30-160	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Breaking down the pioneering camp in Csillebérc, I think, is the most dirty issue of the regime change, which is a veterinary horse of unscrupulousness and cynicism. Fortunately, on 4 November the Metropolitan Court decided to return the territory to the property of the Hungarian State. The Association of Hungarian Pioneers, the Bau-bérc and the Mobile have to leave the area that has been used unauthorizedly. It is memorable that 15 years ago Tamás Deutsch, Minister of Youth and Sport of the then civilian government, filed a lawsuit to recover the pioneer camp in Csillebérc. After a long court-marriage, the state achieved its goal, and it was finally restored. I have mentioned the suspicious details of the playover in this House on an earlier occasion, but it is so complicated that I could not go into all the details. It is known that while the pioneer association was using the property, its kft. had a revenue of 170-200 million forints a year. But not only the Hungarian state was damaged by the former MSZPs and the people close to it, but also the Hungarian children who wanted to camp. The poorest people are estimated to have fallen from 5-10 billion, mainly due to the fact that young Hungarians in need could not organize camp there for years. But I have to mention that Csillebérci Leisure and Youth Centre manager Nóra Nagy, István Nyakó's former wife is MSZP representative, and among other things, she won tens of millions of HUF public money for child camping. But it is questionable what these funds have gone to, since the Socialist politician-marriage couple asked the BKV for free buses to travel the children. Miklós Regőczi, former C.E.O. of the BKV, knows that they usually had to have 8-10 buses at their disposal for which they had not paid. On these occasions, children in the Member's constituency were encamped, but many children in need were left out of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]]
u2015-11-30-161	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-11-30-162	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the case of Csillebérc, wherever we go, we find socialist politicians everywhere, whether it be Péter Rácz, László Varju, István Nyakó or István Nyakó's wife, Nóra Nagy, or Klára Butor, the party director of the Hungarian Socialist Party. It is clear that it is not possible to distinguish when we talk about the camp of Csillebérc, the pioneering alliance that owns it, the managing kft., various foundations to which they later wanted to transfer the entire property, the 4.6 hectares, and when we talk about the Hungarian Socialist Party. That is why what you said is possible, and it is certainly not the only case when socialist politicians managed the former pioneer camp in Csillebérc on a party basis, now considered it a place to generate income, or a place to generate salaries for people who do not receive a position in the party or politics. The hundreds of millions of forints that were extracted annually as traffic provided this socialist second line with a view to providing a living or covering certain campaign costs. This is, of course, unacceptable, because by circumvention of public property, when KISZ dissolved on 22 April 1989, it was two months after its dissolution that KISZ signed another gift contract on 27 June. Let us not forget what the secretary of the Central Committee of KISZ is called: Ferenc Gyurcsány. Three days after that, the land office registered their ownership. Who is the Hungarian citizen whose ownership is registered in three days, especially in those troubled, confusing weeks, months and years? ! At that time, ownership was immediately registered on the property given to the pioneer association by an organization that no longer exists. Fortunately, after 25 years and 15 years of litigation, this was returned to the Hungarian state, but only a year later, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] was not occupied by the pioneer covenant, one day after this decision was not made after the deadline of 30 June in 89. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Kovács.
u2015-11-30-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. But let me add that the main pioneer, Péter Rácz, who sold the 95 million forints house to his cousin, to Bau-bérc Kft., is now 50 percent owned by Attila Rab, for HUF 14.2 million, for potom money, which the court has also stated is going back to the state. After the final judgment, we hope that an era, a new era, will begin, where children in need can once again be enriched with experiences at Camp Csillebérc. This era will no longer be the era where socialist politicians and their environment benefit. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-165	Thank you, Congressman Kovács. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-11-30-166	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'm familiar with the saying to many that the pioneer doesn't steal, he does. This is also the case when, although it seems to be a gift contract, the land office seems to register ownership, but in fact it turned out that this was an illegal condition. For 25 years, all those who knew that they had illegally acquired ownership of this property here, and from this they maintained the entire Hungarian pioneer association... - I do not know what remains of the pioneer covenant, if this illegal 25-year condition finally ceases, if they knew why they did so, why their own profits were more important than the salvation of these needy children, which was the original function. I think that we can all expect those who are now in our possession to know what the court's decision is, and it is clear what the situation is, to end this socialist paying place, to give this place back to Hungarian young people, to Hungarian children, not to have to start any further proceedings, to implement the final decision of the Hungarian court. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer. I'm asking Congressman Tukacs if he'll accept the identity of the responder.
u2015-11-30-168	Of course.
u2015-11-30-169	It says yes. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2015-11-30-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Until that point, there is never a debate between us that health is a national issue that cannot be steered in different directions every four years. At the same time, however, health care is in a desperate situation. In a desperate situation, described by the former Secretary of State for Health of the portfolio as a system where there are no internal reserves to cover the additional costs of maintaining the system, wage developments and everything else. Troubles are many: the exodus of doctors and nurses, increasing waiting lists, diagnostic procedures and simple screenings for 5-6 months, and spatial imbalances in which there is much less chance of healing, who is far away from the capital and on the other hand, and, of course, the big problem of health care, which could be said to be underpaid by those who heal us. Therefore, it is important to recall the sentence that Gábor Zombor said - I am opening a parentheses: he was the one whose departure was perhaps saddened by a profession, closed by parentheses - I repeat that the system no longer has internal reserves. However, the new Secretary of State says that it is not worth filling this system with money, because it was necessary to try to reorganize it, and the money from it will be able to raise wages, and it will be possible to work better and better. I doubt that. Dear Secretary of State, However, the question is what is your current health position and where is the money that will improve the system. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-11-30-171	Thank you very much, Congressman Tukacs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-11-30-172	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You yourself began your speech with a somewhat unusual, emotional sentence. Allow me to do the same. Honourable Congressman, If the Hungarian Socialist Party considered health care to be such a strategic issue, why did it transfer it to SZDSZ? How much simpler this government would have been in 2010, but you would have been in the same situation between 2002 and 2010 if you hadn't let the SZDSZ in if you hadn't let HospInvest in if you hadn't let in the hospital safes, the privatisation ideas! It would have been a much simpler situation, we would have seen much less-indebted healthcare if the MSZP had not done so. We are after these times, these decisions, but here the Hungarian Socialist Party has made a very big mistake, which does not need to be admitted here orally, publicly, but let's face it, we would be in a much less bad situation if the SZDSZ hadn't been running around in this area through cycles. [[17 .30]] The need for external resources is clear, Congressman. This is why the government provided an external source of HUF 60 billion in debt reduction for hospitals this year. That is why we provided an extra HUF 6 billion to reduce waiting lists. You know that a few years ago there were 70,000 patients on this, and by the end of last year, the number of patients waiting there decreased to about 44,000, and now to 35,000. This waiting list did not increase, but the waiting list decreased, and it did not fall by itself, but by external sources. But in the same way, strengthening basic care: if you count how much more a GP will receive in next year's budget, you will experience a 40 percent surplus. But if you look at the E Fund's budget, it's about one and a half times the previous one. Or if you look at the emergency services budget, there's a lot more of 40 percent more of the rescue services going on next year than you did in 2010. These are all tangible external sources, and the OECD has also described in its study that while there was a 2.3 per cent withdrawal from health care in the previous period, the OECD itself has now calculated a surplus of resources. That's what better health can be based on. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-173	Thank you very much. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2015-11-30-174	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, you can't rely on it. In order to make a major change, we need an extra amount of 100 billion in health care. The situation is catastrophic. The wages are undeservingly low. Gábor Zombor, I repeat, who was upset about his departure by a profession, said at the joint protest of nurses and doctors that their demands were justified, but could not be met because there was no money. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, we are not talking about six billion-dollar cutbacks, but, for example, an intervention that would call into question waiting lists, because it is not from God to be waiting lists at all, there is capacity. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to open this answer in a conversation that this time is inadequate, but it is unacceptable to have an attitude towards health care, and patients and doctors know it. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-175	Thank you, Congressman. You have a chance to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2015-11-30-176	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it would have been nice if Gábor Zombor had not only said such words of appreciation after his resignation, but also when he was in office, because it is always a very difficult area for health care. You could have supported him. [[István Tukacs intervenes.]] They'd do it in hindsight, it's nice, it would have been nice if they'd done it a year ago, let's say. As regards waiting lists: Fidesz-KDNP only introduced the single electronic waiting list register, the waiting list itself was introduced by the socialists. We have made this system transparent and have provided additional resources to reduce them. In the same way we have tried to move towards a rise in wages, obviously there is a huge task here, because in decades, these are wages that have been missed, not from the change of regime, but before what we are talking about in health care, and no one is arguing that we need to increase it here. That's why we raised the incomes of the general practitioners, so we raised the income of everyone who works in health care, and this year we raised it to those who work at the side of the sickbed for several shifts. That this must continue, no one doubts this, but the operation of Hungarian reforms has created it for so far. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the financial basis, and we trust that this comes from chips tax and other things. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-177	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How many times does it take two weeks for order? They're stealing hundreds of millions from our hospitals? It's an address. The Minister asked Mr Károly Kontra to reply. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-11-30-178	I'll take it.
u2015-11-30-179	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Luke.
u2015-11-30-180	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think it has become clear from today's better speeches that we are faced with a generally deteriorating public security today and in the current times in the country. It is evidence that healthcare providers, including hospitals, clinics and ambulances, are facing a new form of crime, and this is essentially nothing more than practically stealing these healthcare providers. It is not enough that virtually HUF 60 billion is repeatedly owed by health institutions, another debt, if you like, their necks, their shoulders, and that is that they are irritatingly stealing, cheating, or harming the public assets that are needed for healing. Data on this - which also shows the government's inactivity - show that while in 2013 the damage caused by property crimes was HUF 131 million to health services providers, this increased to HUF 451 million in 2014, and by mid-Summer 2015, the damage to them was already HUF 478 million, that is, almost half a billion forints, perhaps by the end of the year it will be worth HUF billion. The trend shows that institutions are not only underfunded, but they are already stealing the property there and committing crimes against assets that in many cases hinder healing. They've been stealing taps, other bathroom items, but there's been cases where an entire LCD controller or a TV unit has been stolen from an imaging diagnostic device that hasn't been found. And what does the government do? It seems that the government is currently passively watching all of this, as since 2013 the amount has steadily increased and the pressure on the institutions has steadily increased. So I ask you: what will the government do, or will you continue to stand by and watch hospitals being stolen in Hungary? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-181	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-30-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today's best-selling show about public safety is your last act. On several occasions, we have found that the aim of this series of attacks without any basis is to stop Jobbik's falling popularity and loss of popularity. One third of his supporters are reportedly lost, and that's why they're trying to find a grip on the government, so far it seems to be unsuccessful. Honourable Congressman, What I can say is that the government, the police in all the settlements of Hungary, are taking decisive action against every criminal in order to ensure the safety and safety of people, their wealth and their lives. If you are aware of an act or of an infringement, of theft, as you have said, you are aware of that which affects health institutions, hospitals, you should file a complaint. By the way, as a Member of Parliament, you have an obligation to do so in Btk. We can promise that the police will pay the utmost attention to all such complaints, and we hope that if there are such violations, they will be found and convicted by the court. By the way, I have said several times that I have been able to say several times today that public safety has improved in recent years, and that people are safer. I also said that obviously not all crimes have ceased, we have not promised that all crimes will cease after Fidesz has been brought to government. It'd be nice to have a situation like this, but no one could do that, and we didn't promise. We promised that we would do everything we could to prevent crime, and if they did commit a crime, the police would take them and bring them to justice. We will continue to do so in the future, and I can promise you, Mr President, that if you have any specific announcements, you have specific information on the violations and thefts, I ask you to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-183	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-11-30-184	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I have such serious information that Captain Károly Papp himself sent me the data I quoted. So not only do I have an obligation to file a complaint, but it seems that others have also filed a complaint in this case, and this table has shown since 2013 [[He's showing it to me.]] the deteriorating state of public safety protected by you, affecting healthcare providers. I think, instead of speaking here on behalf of the Secretary of State and talking about our obligation to report, we should learn about the data that are included in this. Keep in mind, Mr Secretary of State, what can be done to protect the institutions. I would like to point out that these are not just hospitals, but also the protection of emergency services or other clinics, for example, to consider putting them at risk, an amendment to the Btk. needs to be made that clearly tells people that whoever steals the public health assets must have serious legal consequences. But it could be with a tracker, with other techniques, Mr. Secretary, to prevent it from being systematic. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Hungarian healthcare providers are now being dismantled in a billion-dollar scale. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-185	Thank you. You have a chance to rejoin the Secretary of State. [[17.40]]
u2015-11-30-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, What I meant was that you referred to the current and undiscovered crimes. And I said that if you know anything about it, you should file a report. Because what you have presented for 2013 and 2014 are the violations detected, honourable Member, which have been made available to you by the national commissioner. And those that have not yet been discovered by the police or other law enforcement agencies, but there are such violations, then make those information available to the authorities, and I can promise you that the police will strike the thieves, the offenders. This is a particularly sensitive area, and if there is a threat to the safety of health institutions, institutions that cure people, as you say, it is particularly important to protect these equipment, these institutions. Honourable Member, if you have such a specific proposal on the Btk tightening [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then do it. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I will.]] What I can tell you is that the Justice Department will examine this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Földi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Are there any negative effects of the migrant situation on tourism in transit? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary for his reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2015-11-30-188	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-11-30-189	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman László Earth.
u2015-11-30-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, tourism has broken records. The tourist traffic indicators of Hungary are changing in a positive direction. It is now trendy that the rate of increase in revenues exceeds the turnover of the guests. The government made the right decision when it introduced the SZÉP card in 2011 to strengthen and continuously stimulate domestic tourism demand. In addition to the results of domestic tourism, it is also important to mention that a significant part of the growth in guest traffic is generated by tourists from abroad. At the peak of the migrant crisis, at the beginning of September, however, Hungary's expected negative consequences for Hungarian tourism were seen in a lot of news. On the basis of the cancelled bookings, several of the professionals expressed their fears that this could endanger the results of tourism, breaking its growth trend. With all due respect, I ask the Secretary of State: how did the HCSO data confirm these fears? Has the communication offensive presenting Hungary as a safe destination succeeded? Based on the first three-quarters of years of data, do you still see it realistic for this year to be a record year again in the sector? I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-191	Thank you, Earth Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2015-11-30-192	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for this question, since you have formulated a question and formulated your thoughts on issues on which the world of tourism has been thinking a lot in recent years. It is true that at the height of the migration crisis, in September, many people predicted that our inbound tourism would fall drastically. Most of all, it was feared that unilateral reports in international media, sometimes painting the situation in Hungary with terrifying images, would make travelers insecure. But the data shows that it didn't happen that way. Both the tourism profession and the administration of the sector have dealt with this issue in a sound and calm manner, but the situation has not been undermined. In all possible forums and channels, we have told our important sending markets that Hungary is a completely safe destination; nobody has to fear for the safety of their personal or property. It also shows that the government policy of the last few months in migrant affairs has been good and effective. And it can also be seen that the EU is beginning to recognise this more and more strongly. We also expressed our view that tourism should not be too afraid of the migrant crisis because the vast majority of travellers do not listen to the media, but decide their destinations by listening to their own experiences or the experiences of their acquaintances. Personal travel experiences continue to be consistently positive in relation to Hungary. That's proof of some of the data I'd like to tell you. If there is no big trend by the end of the year, there is a good chance that this year the number of hotel guests exceeds 10 million, the number of guest nights they spend is 25 million, and the total revenue of the accommodations is HUF 350 billion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In other words, as you put it in your question, Hungarian tourism can once again close a record year.
u2015-11-30-193	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Earth.
u2015-11-30-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. It is very comforting to me and I am pleased that Hungary remains a popular destination for foreigners. Obviously, in this area Budapest, of course, because most tourists turn around here, in the capital, but I think that these facts, which the Secretary of State has said, confirm that the steps of the Hungarian government on tourism and migration issues have been good, which have, of course, brought their results, and have brought no serious change in the arrival of foreigners. At the same time, I have to say that our city, Cegléd, may also have major developments if the M4 motorway is built, and our existing thermal bath, our hotel, will also be a popular tourist destination for those arriving here. Thank you for the answer, and I trust that this trend that has started will not change. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-195	Thank you, Earth Congressman. You have the opportunity to rejoin Secretary of State Cseresnyés.
u2015-11-30-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to give you a few very briefly, some data to support what I said in the first two minutes. I would like to say the increase in guest nights in some countries of dispatch. For example, the number of guest nights in the United Kingdom increased by more than 23 percent. Nearly 10 percent more people from the Czech Republic came and spent guest nights here. The number of guest nights in the USA increased by more than 15 percent, but it also increased for the Netherlands, Romania, Poland and Italy. So you can say there's a serious increase. And he was aiming for Budapest, but of course the countryside was also taking part in this increase, but it has to be said that the capital is perhaps the best. A very sensual [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would like to give you data: the use of accommodation in Budapest was 90 percent in September. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-197	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of "May Other" Politics, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Will High Schools be rescued?" It's an address. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-11-30-198	Yeah.
u2015-11-30-199	It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Ikotity.
u2015-11-30-200	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, When we spoke in Parliament about the planned termination of the high schools at the end of the previous school year, Dr. Judit Bertanul, State Secretary of Public Education, Czunyiné proposed to us the use of the interpreter manual dictionary. The Secretary of State said that the cleaning of schools does not equal high school closures; the high schools are safe and that the taking over of mixed-profile institutions does not lead to any reorganisation or termination. The Secretary of State also said that we are alarmed when we are concerned about the closure of high school classes. The question is still on the agenda. From September, NGM took over vocational schools, along with the institutions where vocational training and high school training are carried out. Perhaps the match is still taking place between government players, which high school education should remain and which should be cancelled. According to the news, about 30 high schools will be closed in Hungary. That means there'll be thousands of high school students less. Since high school graduates are trying to get into higher education almost without exception, since this is the main goal of this type of school, ensuring further education, this means that the secondary base of universities and colleges suffers from a sensitive vasectomy. In the future, the number of candidates for higher education may decrease even further. [[17.50]] We know why this is happening. The declaration of the Fidesz-KDNP government is the construction of a work-based society in Orbán, not the creation of a knowledge-based economy that Europe wants. Dear Secretary of State, Are we still alarmed when we ask about the termination of high school courses? Is it true that they're actually closing dozens of high schools in the future? What will be the fate of high schools in Hungary? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-11-30-201	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-11-30-202	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You've been trying for years to put a stamp on the government that the government doesn't want the students to learn, even less so that they want to learn. It's like the entire government is working against training. But fortunately, it has been so long, honourable Member, that although you have been alarming me every year, every year similar speeches have been said here in Parliament and outside Parliament, and every year you have been denied the facts, the events, the news and the numbers. For the first time in recent months, the news has been released that Gyula Krúdy High School is closing in Győr, and it turned out that it wasn't. It's been two weeks since Vácon closed at Boronkay György High School, but it also turned out that it wasn't closing. Now he gets up, he doesn't have the guts to give us any specific names, but he says there's gonna be dozens of high schools closing. There will be dozens of high schools closed, honourable Member, like these two: none. Just as these are left, so will the rest of them. Our goal is not to close any educational institution, but to ensure that students who study in it receive useful training so that we do not deceive them. On the other hand, it says that the number of people admitted to higher education will continue to decrease. Honourable Member, it has been about the same for years. It grew from last year to last year, from last year to this year it dropped a little, but this is only a few hundred or a few thousand people, about the same number of higher education students. So even though you say things like that, the numbers don't change. What we want is for anyone who gets into high school to end up getting admitted to vocational school to do it. This is the highest dropout rate, over 30 percent of those who are hired, but do not complete this training. And in the same way, in the universities who are hired, do it. We would like to increase the number of graduates, the number of graduates, and the number of graduates, so that those who sign up, who start this training finish it. This is how we want to take these questions more seriously, and not by hiring everyone, and then whoever does it will do it if they don't. We want to do this a little more conscientiously. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-203	Thank you very much. Congressman Ikotity has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-11-30-204	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You're confusing us with someone when you say that we're the ones who claimed the end of high school in Győr and Vác. Please take a closer look at this. However, the news was indeed found, but it was confirmed that these high schools would remain. Apparently, local strong people, local Fidesz representatives started lobbying. We understand that this stage is going right now, where there's a strong man standing up for the high school in his own territory, where the high school remains, but what about the rest of the territory? Can education policy be left to the question of how strong the local Fidesz representative in Fidesz can defend this system? Secretary of State, the fact that you don't complete high school education up to 30 percent of what you said doesn't support the need to terminate high schools in some places. Please answer whether you can guarantee that high schools will not be abolished in Hungary. Yes or no? Actually, that's my question.
u2015-11-30-205	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. Mr. Secretary, you have the opportunity.
u2015-11-30-206	Thank you very much for the opportunity and the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This government still has no intention of shutting down any educational institution, since it was the government that reopened small settlement schools, the schools that were closed by the government before it. We have reopened these schools, precisely to give everyone as close to their place of residence as possible to their primary education and, where appropriate, to the middle level. Of course, there is no other intention of the government, we were not a government of closures, but a government of reopenings, and we intend to continue to do so. Where there will continue to be children and they want to enroll in high school, we will, of course, offer them this opportunity at a higher level, supported by a wide variety of scholarships, which, even in catch-up policy, will help someone whose parents have failed to graduate and, where appropriate, can break out of deprivation, poverty or poverty. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-207	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The last immediate question, I mean today. Mihály Witzmann, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. How does the government help young people to thrive in the 2014-2020 period? It's an address. I ask Congressman Witzmann if he will accept the identity of the Secretary of State Cseresnyés appointed for his reply.
u2015-11-30-208	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-11-30-209	You have the floor, Congressman Witzmann.
u2015-11-30-210	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is clear to all of us that the future of a country depends on families and young people. The situation of young people is not easy, as they have very little work experience at the beginning of their professional careers, and therefore their location is much more difficult. The global crisis in Hungary has also shown that it is even more difficult for young people to enter the labour market during a significant decline in labour demand and that the risk of dismissal is much higher for them. This is why all initiatives that help young people to cope, prosper and find their place are joyful. These include, among other things, the programme for the entrepreneurialisation of young people who have started these days, the first part of which can already be applied. The main point of the measure is that the programme provides some HUF 1.1 billion for the training of young people, in which they can learn business knowledge, and then in 2016 they can apply for real capital grants, i.e. initial costs, in the framework of an additional HUF 2.9 billion grant. Based on preliminary expectations, nearly a thousand young people will have the opportunity to realize their dreams. For my part, I very much hope that as many young people as possible have the courage to stand on their own feet and start their own successful business, because the main driving force of a country's economy is global and large companies, but we also know that small and medium-sized enterprises are essential, since most people are working in the micro and so-called SMEs sectors. We are still at the beginning of the new EU call cycle, so many are interested in the opportunities for young people in the coming years. That is why I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State how the government helps young people to thrive in the 2014-2020 tendering period. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-211	Thank you, Congressman Witzmann. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Cseresnyés.
u2015-11-30-212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I agree with what you said: the future of the country depends on young people and the training of young people. He mentioned a program that I would have mentioned, and I might add a sentence or two to what you said about him. However, I would like to present some programmes which also help young people to stay in the workplace or to find their place at work, as increasing the employment of young people, entering the labour market and facilitating their entry into the labour market are one of the most important tasks of the government. [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Dezső Incredible.]] Such a programme is an action plan for job protection, which has been running for three years now - more precisely action, since it is no longer a plan, but it works - which helped to employ 164 thousand young people in September this year. This is a training and entrepreneurial support programme that has been launched with significant EU and domestic support to help young people gain work experience. The state has spent approximately HUF 50 billion on this programme since 2011. As a result, the number of young people aged 15-24 in employment increased by more than 71 thousand. This means that they reduced their unemployment rate to 16.7 per cent and their employment rate increased to 26.7 per cent. Another such programme is the Youth Guarantee, which is guaranteed to help young people under the age of 25 who are long-term job seekers from the beginning of this year. Between 2014-20, about HUF 200 billion will be spent by the government to support this, and we will support 180 thousand young people under 25 years of age with the help of this programme. I'll get back to you in a minute.
u2015-11-30-213	Thank you very much. Congressman has a one-minute rejoinder. [[18.00]]
u2015-11-30-214	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. I think it is safe to say that Hungarian reforms also work well in the field of employment, since the number of people employed has clearly increased since April 2010 and unemployment is falling. Today, nearly 4.3 million people are working in Hungary and the number of unemployed is down by 290 thousand. Since the change in government in April 2010, unemployment has decreased from around 12 percent to around 6.4 percent. It is important to point out that there are not only more people working today, but there is a steady increase in wages for 30 months, a rise in average gross earnings and the purchasing power of salaries. Only around 328 thousand more people work in the competition sector compared to 2010. Youth employment has also increased significantly, as you said, at present the unemployment rate is above 26 per cent, and in their case it has fallen to 16 per cent. I would also like to ask Mr State Secretary and the Government of Hungary to continue to support the implementation of government measures to support employment and to preserve the results so far in order to achieve full employment as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-215	Thank you, Congressman Witzmann. I'll give you a return answer.
u2015-11-30-216	Thank you very much. I would like to continue: with the help of GINOP and VEKOP programmes, we provide support for the immediate placement of young people to obtain marketable qualifications through these programmes. As a result of the work of the Employment Service, nearly 20,000 young people worked or started their training until the end of November. So these are running programs. And I would like to draw your attention to another programme, highlighting what you have already mentioned, in addition to helping to become an entrepreneur, that an internship programme is also being launched, in which we will use HUF 15 billion to support SMEs who are engaged in the employment of young people with secondary or tertiary qualifications, who do not work and do not study. These programmes will continue to be available for the period 2014-2020 and will help young people in need. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-217	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, That concludes this agenda. It is now time for a series of submissions to be dealt with. Independent Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi and her fellow Members have proposed that the Parliament decide on measures to facilitate better coordination of childbearing and work H/6609. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi, in a five-minute time frame, I will hand over the chair to Vice-President Hiller. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2015-11-30-218	Good evening, everyone. We'll get back to work. Congresswoman, please.
u2015-11-30-219	Thank you very much. Childbearing and employment are, in fact, national priorities in the focus of all parliamentary parties. No wonder both the government and we deal with this a lot. It is clear that the lives of families, the lives of people, are essentially these things, and that neither employment policy nor demographic breakthroughs can be achieved if children and work cannot be solved harmoniously in the family. Typically, this is the problem of women, although there are men in families and men also take on children and work, but it is primarily women that come to mind when we talk about it. [[To János Volner and Gergely Kulcsár, who talked to each other:]] Gentlemen. I'm sorry, I can't hear myself. Could you keep it down a little bit? Thank you very much. The government's efforts are, above all, to help children to become more harmonious and work with cash payments and freedom. For some reason, however, this does not produce results, and it is very difficult to reconcile these life situations in Hungary, at European level. Therefore, we believe that basically we should prepare for a paradigm shift when we seek better solutions, which I say is that it is the model of the two seekers, two caring parents, that is the 21st. In the first century, it was considered modern, topical, beneficial for families and favourable for the country. This certainly requires a different approach than simply trying to support women and oblige employers to apply more flexibly. In fact, in order to achieve a meaningful change, men need to be involved in this effort. It is necessary to establish a partnership with employers so that they have an interest in introducing mechanisms in the market world that provide better opportunities for parents who have children, primarily women, and which, at the same time, are not suffered by workers. Our proposals, which allow for a more harmonious reconciliation, use many tools. We would like to present a package to Parliament and discuss it, which is partly focused on men, partly involving employers in cooperation. We have three proposals that we would like to discuss with the representatives of the parliamentary parties. The first of these is something that the government is also trying to do; at the moment, there is a proposal in front of Parliament that is basically trying to facilitate the placement of children of a kindergarten age. We want to give this even more positive family incentives. This is basically a good direction, although there are even better solutions than what we are discussing here. Which, however, is not at all here, nor has it been in the government's proposals, although we know that the government has already discussed it, is how fathers can be better involved in raising children, in their home work. That is what we would suggest the introduction of so-called father months. This is already widespread in many European countries. If it's well-inspired, 40 to 70 percent of men use it. You can see from this that men also need to be able to share in raising their little child. This would be about parents sharing the lawn, the time when the little kids are at home. This is very good for children, very good for men, strengthening the relationship between them, resulting in a long-term relationship change. And, of course, it's good for women, because women don't have to stay away from work very long. The other part of our proposals, the third, which is not mentioned in the government, is the introduction of child-friendly jobs. There are sample programmes and applications to be supported, but in fact, today in Hungary employers are not encouraged to allow flexible forms of work that provide real and real help to parents who have children in the first place. We want this proposal, which we have tabled, which puts this triple package on the table of Parliament, to be discussed, to be discussed, to be able to think about it, and Hungary to be a forward-looking country where we not only talk about families, but we are actually doing things for them. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2015-11-30-220	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. Here.
u2015-11-30-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In any case, the Hungarian Socialist Party can support this initiative. I'd like to talk about two things briefly. The average hourly rate of women in Europe is 16.3 percent lower than that of men, i.e. women work virtually 59 days for free every year. So as of November 2nd this year, you won't get a penny for your work. In total, however, the gap between the average annual earnings of women and men is much higher, with 41.1 percent. In Hungary, the gender pay gap is 18.4 percent on average per hour, compared to 16.3 percent in the EU. The difference in total earnings, i.e. the gap between the average annual earnings of men and women, is also harsher in Hungary, representing 32.7 percent. [[18.10]] It is true that this is a slightly smaller difference than the EU 41.1 percent, but otherwise men also earn much less than the EU average in Hungary. I think we haven't been able to solve this problem in years. The other very big problem, mentioned by my fellow Member, is the intraday care of children under the age of 3. Today, only 16 percent of children under the age of 3 go to daycare or family daycare in Hungary. By 2020 - what we have undertaken in the European Union, Hungary, too - it stated as an objective that it wants to raise this rate to 33 percent. We don't talk about 33 percent anymore, the government's only taken 25 percent. Unfortunately, we are not going to move forward on this issue, but the current government is trying to do so on a much smaller scale, and this is not a good direction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-30-222	Thank you very much. Congressman Novak, Jobbik, here you go.
u2015-11-30-223	Dear Parliament, Jobbik has long advocated better coordination between childbearing and employment, either by supporting part-time and atypical forms of employment or by abolishing the nursery care fee, as the previous Fidesz government has paid for the cradle service. Of course, we should talk about raising the wages of daycare workers. We also talk about it and even put forward a proposal for it in relation to budgetary debates. We have also put forward a proposal for family-friendly institutions, which would make everyday life easier for working parents, but they have all been voted down, just as this proposal to be included in this series of articles has become a similar fate in the committee, since we know the position of János Lázár, which, unfortunately, is stuck to the whole of Fidesz. He was not ashamed to say that the Prime Minister's Office was, unfortunately, not a family-friendly workplace. Yet, such messages are extremely damaging to the country as a whole, to other administrations and to the demographic catastrophe of our entire country. He also said that working at the Prime Minister's Office is not mandatory for anyone. This is just one step away from the Gyurcsány position that anyone who does not like it can leave Hungary. On the other hand, we want a viable country, a just country, and here we see that everything is a little erratic, there is a big difference between words and actions. The Women's 40 programmes and the pension scheme started with the help of women in parental care. Compared to this, the only period covered by social security contributions is the time spent on childcare under the Women 40 programme. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to negotiate this proposal. Jobbik would also like to eliminate the prehistoric conservative social concept, which is also extremely harmful, that she should only give birth. After all, according to international statements, there is now just a greater willingness to have children where women are given the opportunities to work, even more widely. That's what the numbers prove. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] today's Hungarian society. If that's the way they think, we have to support the women, the parents. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-224	This is Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP. Here.
u2015-11-30-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The LMP supports the inclusion of a series of proposals for decisions. In these three areas, we also consider the most necessary progress to ensure that women's and men's labour market opportunities are balanced, that the reconciliation of work and childbearing becomes a reality and that, ultimately, more children are born. A more balanced family division of labour is indeed a cardinal issue. We also believe that the role of fathers in raising children should be strengthened. Although it is still possible for fathers to take childcare leave, the proportion of men using the child is only 1 percent. This also shows that the mere possibility is not enough, that incentives must be included in the system. Our proposal, in line with this proposal for a decision and Directive 2010/18/EU, was not to transfer at least 1 month of parental leave from 36 months. To date, this EU directive has not been transposed into Hungarian law by the government. In connection with the development of day care, we ourselves have made a number of proposals. We have proposed to increase the norm of family day care providers that can respond flexibly to needs, cheaply and easily developed, and to rethink the funding system. The child supervision voucher was also included several times in the alternative budget proposals. Finally, we also agree to the fact that, despite the legislative possibility of flexible employment for women, it is only a principle option today because of the disadvantaged labour market situation of women with young children. The LMP therefore supports this proposal. We hope that the government will do the same. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-30-226	Thank you very much. Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz!
u2015-11-30-227	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The title of the proposal is "The measures to facilitate better coordination of childbearing and work." I am not questioning the goodwill of my fellow Member Zsuzsanna Szelényi. We spoke at a committee meeting, we agree with a lot of things, but the sentence is to take swift and effective steps to make it easier for women to reconcile work and childbearing, and I think that this is a little strong, because we have adopted an enormous number of such laws in recent times. That these laws were not in vain, let me draw attention to the fact that while the employment rate of women in 2010 was 50 per cent, this increased to 58 per cent by 2015 and the increase was even higher than that of small children. By the way, fellow Members, this is not a coincidence. The government prioritises increasing women's employment. I'll just give you some examples. The action in the workplace is about the fact that women returning to the labour market after having children, women, do not have to pay contributions for two years, and in the third year only half of the contributions, this gives them a rather large labour market advantage. This is why the employment of women with children aged 0-6 has increased significantly. In the case of returnees after 3 or more children, this means a period of 3 years and 2 years, respectively. This also includes the extra issue of the child, which also encourages the ladies to be able to take up work and return to the labour market sooner. We also amended the Labour Code, which was about ensuring their employment during part-time work when asked for by the ladies with small children. We are now discussing a law that includes the need to organise day care in all settlements from 1 January 2017 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] where parents ask for at least five children. Since we are going this way, we consider the inclusion of this material to be unjustified. Thank you very much. Nevertheless, we agree perfectly with the goals.
u2015-11-30-228	I will ask if any other independent Members wish to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs Congresswoman, if she wishes to react. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-229	Thank you very much for your support. I think that the proposals made by Márius Révész undoubtedly exist. On the other hand, as long as workers are fundamentally opposed to the use of young women with little children and young women without children, it is simply difficult for them to see how to deal with them and how to plan them, these incentives are somehow not well set. I think that there are still very, very many shortcomings with regard to employers. Different types of mandatory proposals that the government has formulated for them do not essentially fulfil their function, but only result in young women not being employed by employers at all in certain jobs. So for the time being, these are more counterproductive than useful, and I think there is a lot more to be done here. Father months are very important to us. In that regard, the government has no progressive, progressive, forward-looking effort, and cannot do without it. It can't be, it's not enough just to give money to families, there are things that simply can't be paid with money, it's not enough to help children with cash payments and tax breaks. Until the roles in the family change a little bit from traditional to more forward-looking, there will be no more children born in Hungary simply, and women will not be able to work in bulk, as there are very few women working in other Eastern European countries around us. Young women in their 30s simply miss the Hungarian labour market in bulk, even though it is bad for families, they do not have enough money, they do not have enough income. It'd be nice to have kids, you really need to be able to work with them, easy. So we very much hope that the government will consider this proposal. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you for your support.
u2015-11-30-230	Thank you very much. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/7471 amendment to the Sixth Amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. [[18.20]] First, Honourable Parliament, I give the floor to the author within a five-minute time frame. Please indicate to the authors that... [[For signal:]] That is to say, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian on behalf of the authors. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-231	Mr President, Dear House, We are now at an apparent moment of grace from the point of view of Hungary in the context of a migration crisis that spans the sociocultural image and social deep tissues of all Europe for decades, as thousands or tens of thousands of people do not cross Hungary's borders every day at the moment. We can therefore say that this is the moment of action, this is the point where it is possible to assess the lines of action so far, such as the construction of a physical border lock, the way in which it has been provided with human resources, and now it is possible to take very important steps for the future. For us, the Fidesz-KDNP is a little short of turning to the European Court of Justice, where it launches a process of up to two years in the spirit of protesting the quota, but this process lasting for two years has no suspensive effect, so in the witch's kitchen in Brussels they can cook anything against us, in fact the Orbán government can't act against it with this one tool. We can also see that, in terms of the EU summit and the negotiations with Turkey, Hungary is not so strongly threatened by the idea of a mandatory quota, but this idea is in the air, so much so that leading European politicians intend to threaten Hungary to cut it, to take away EU funds if it does not accept foreign populations and to relocate them to its own territory. Jobbik does not sell bagcats: we reject introductions based on both quota and deportation, with zero tolerance, and at this moment of patience - I would like to note quietly before Transylvania - that emigrants from the direction of Transylvania will occasionally be held by dozens, and the smuggling routes will seem to be reorganized in a completely new direction - we would like to propose a much more muscular tool, if not instead of, but alongside, a tool that will not only allow the current government to move, if you like, narrow it down, but also every other government in Hungary. After all, the aim of Jobbik's initiative for the national referendum is clear: the voters of Hungary can say directly, at one of the highest official forums, that they do not wish to contribute to the resettlement of foreign ethnic groups in Hungary on the basis of either quota or deportation. I would like to say here that we are very surprised that politicians who claim to be liberal do not object to quota with a foaming mouth, because the idea of a European quota is what? In fact, the violent relocation of ethnic groups within Europe is part of the 21st century. In the century, who, in the case of migrant groups located near relatives and enclaves in Germany, would come with a nice word, say, to Hungary and spend the next few years here? Obviously, this is an unviable, not exactly life-smelling, forced proposal that we reject. However, to issue a national referendum on this issue, there are legal dilemmas and, according to some legal interpretations, the Fundamental Law must be amended, and Jobbik would therefore make an amendment to Article 8 (3) to organise a national referendum on this matter without obstacles. The state of sovereignty is very much explained by the fact that, by default, such dilemmas arise at all, and that the government of a nation state cannot ask its own citizens directly on any issue. We do not see the international treaty on the subject or content, but we would like to address these concerns. This requires the amendment of the basic law of Jobbik, and as a result, a national referendum on which we do not conceal, not only would we like to keep the scope of the Fidesz-KDNP government in a certain medium, this is the will of the Hungarian electorate, where, in our view, all similar attempts at resettlement are rejected above 90 per cent, but we would also like to keep the space of manoeuvre of the next, where appropriate, a Jobbik government, in accordance with what has been appointed for the Hungarian electorate. This should be the most natural thing in the world. That is why we call on the government that, if Jobbik had the gesture of giving two thirds of its party interests above its party interests, it gave its support to all intelligent migration initiatives, regardless of their party color, we would like the government, the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, to take the same gesture, so to ensure that Jobbik's vision is met, ensure that Hungarian voters can express their will directly. You will benefit, too, because in Brussels space you will gain a huge legitimization power through these millions, in my opinion negative votes, and we must also say what is most important, we want to keep the room for manoeuvre of future Hungarian governments in a way that no one can think of knowingly installing aliens in Hungary on the basis of quota or other methods. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-232	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. Here.
u2015-11-30-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We will not be able to support this proposal. We do not support it because the quota that my fellow Member Z. Carpath talked about would be correct; we would not support it, nor will we support the introduction of it, as long as the leaders of the European Union and, of course, the Member States that make up the European Union cannot find a reassuring solution to the issue of migration. I, too, consider this one of the most serious and burning, most important problems in Europe, perhaps even in the world outside it. I also agree with my fellow Member, Mr Kárpát, that we are always open to reviewing the rules on referendum matters, as are the other rules on referendums, in the Fundamental Law and in other legislation. However, it must be seen that this issue can be resolved by a referendum if we leave the European Union or at least convince the European Union to contribute to Hungary's departure from the international agreement and treaties that are binding. In other words, such a question raises a dilemma as to whether Jobbik really means that he no longer wants to leave the European Union and does not wish to leave Hungary, because if they are serious, my fellow Members, they will not present such a proposal. It is either that you are simply presenting a populist proposal, which you know is stupid and unbearable, or that your intention is, in fact, serious to ensure that Hungary is no longer a member of the European Union. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-234	Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, please.
u2015-11-30-235	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that the wording in the basic law is not new, which, in the context of international treaties, precludes people from expressing their opinions, and if we allow this proposal to come before the House - everything can be eliminated, so I would say to my fellow Member, Barándy, as a lawyer, that it is our job to eliminate legal problems from a proposal, but the point is that people can express their opinions. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right!]] - This is not an expression of opinion to the European Union or to the European Union, but, above all, to the government and the government at hand, and to what the government at all should represent on the Union stage, since the governments at all have a say in the decision, it does not matter what they represent in the Council, let us say. We believe that we need a long-term solution, as my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, not only for the current situation, but also for a solution that will determine it for up to 50 to 100 years in advance. I also have to say that the signature collection, which is taking place on Fidesz's part, is also useless because the decision to invite the Government to turn to the Court of Justice of the European Union has been brought before Parliament, and I have not heard in the news that they have done so, and it seems to me that they have run out of time. This decision came into force on 24 September and there are two months before the relevant governments turn to the Court of Justice of the Union. So there's a big problem here in the system, and obviously they'll explain it if they did, but instead of clowning around here with Parliament, I'm saying they were clowns, because if the government could make a move, the government could turn to the Court of Justice of the European Union, then the government should have taken that step as soon as possible, not waiting for Parliament to have all the background powers, which, by the way, has no legal relevance. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[18.30]]
u2015-11-30-236	Congressman Peter Konya, independent!
u2015-11-30-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. While I voted together as an independent Member on quota issues and mandatory quotas with pro-government representatives and the Jobbik faction, I am of a different opinion on this issue. It is no coincidence that, following the vote on the quota, I presented a proposal for a resolution to Parliament, which I hope will be discussed next week by a committee, which is about Parliament discussing how many people in trouble and migrants Hungary can take in voluntarily, I would like to emphasise. I think that Hungary has a moral duty and the moral obligation of the Hungarian people to help people in distress who, in some way, are in a war zone under conditions that they must leave their country, because we also have historical responsibility for this. When you think about it, it's like the 1848-49 freedom fight, like the XX. In the early 20th century, the world economic crisis or the Second World War, or the refugee wave after the,, 56th century, where our otherwise troubled countrymen were welcome with open arms from all over the world, I believe that it is our moral duty to voluntarily accept refugees in Hungary's economic potential. Therefore, I cannot support this proposal for Jobbik. Thank you.
u2015-11-30-238	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[István Apáti applied: Yes.]] I can see that, but the Jobbik faction has exhausted its two-minute speaking time, and nothing else can say, because Congressman Staudt has already spoken. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Close!]] I get it, I get it, and we're not there yet. There's a time for everything, it doesn't have to wait that long. [[István Apáti: Okay, okay!]] Since I find that nothing else has come forward, István Apáti wishes to speak on behalf of the authors, he can do so now. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It would be good to clarify who the refugees are and who the immigrants are on this issue. From the time someone escapes from a war zone to reach the first country, not a war country, but a peaceful country, not a refugee, but an immigrant or an intruder; from then on, it is not the instinct to live, it is the instinct to survive, but the unquenchable desire to drain social systems in Western Europe. Let us make this clear in this form because the debate is confusing, so there are no basic concepts fixed here, they are not clarified. 80% of immigrants don't come from war zones. These numbers are thoughtful, though, these proportions. On the other hand, let everyone remember very, very strongly that we are at the very beginning of this problem. It can be seen that between 500,000 and 1 million immigrants are causing problems for the entire continent. What if the Middle East is a multiple of this number, or a crowd of millions of people from Black Africa, in the order of ten million? Technically, this continent is going to collapse. Therefore, if not in the bud, because it is no longer contained in the bud, now should be the time to catch this problem. That is why it is necessary, in the spirit of fulfilling the will of the people, to bring about a national referendum. This is a real, strong tool, and we want to help the government precisely, the government at all times, because right now the Fidesz-KDNP government would have the most powerful sword in their hands if there were a valid and effective referendum behind it, because I'm sure the two hundred thousand signatures would be gathered very quickly. I'm sure there'll be more than four million to go. We can also be sure that an overwhelming majority would reject the deportation and the violent resettlement of migrants arriving under quota. A huge success could be achieved, and we could resolve this issue across governments. The European Citizens' Initiative is a sub-type of the European Salt Office and if the European Court of Justice request is too late [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Then there is practically no other solution than to support this proposal. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-30-240	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the XXXI of 1997 on the protection of children and the management of guardianship in order to establish the basis for the eradication of child hunger. T/7228. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor on behalf of the authors to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I would like to thank the representative of the government, if there were, because the government disappeared half an hour ago, and the Fidesz and the KDNP are slowly starting to disappear, but they still want to participate in this stage of the debate with three people. Eradication of child hunger is a common national issue. For a moment, it seemed to me that all parliamentary parties would agree with this, as all parliamentary parties except KDNP have signed the parliamentary resolution proposal on the civil initiative on this, the national minimum programme. On 2 November, just one month after the submission of the proposal, we were sorry that the pro-government majority of the Parliament's People's Welfare Committee did not support the inclusion of the proposal in the series of proposals. The only more shocking than rejection was the style that the majority of pro-government representatives held in the debate. For the sake of the common cause, we must continue this work that the civilians have begun. The eradication of child hunger requires a number of measures, including legislative amendments. We therefore consider it necessary to take a concrete initiative. The Hungarian Socialist Party has done so. Our proposal contains one of the most necessary legislative amendments to eliminate child hunger: for children in need, the state provides daily meals every day of the year. Our proposal means that children in education, care and education institutions will also be provided for their meals during weekends and holidays. In the case of the smallest children who do not go to institutions yet, for example because there is no nursery or other day care facilities available, it will be particularly important that they receive daily hot food, which is to be provided to municipalities. Of course, it was said at the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee that nearly HUF 30 billion will be provided to support children under the age of 3. This, let's say, has been said by the government for a year - nothing has happened since then. Our proposal would also solve the multi-annual problem of only five of the children in need getting a daily hot meal in the context of social summer meals. It has to be said here that last week, Mr Károly Czibere announced that, next year, 208 thousand children will receive support on a need-to-know basis, and 4.5 billion forints have been allocated for this purpose. If we multiply the 208 thousand by 440 HUF, because that is the amount of support that is now in the budget for one child, and by 80 or 90 days - now the number of breaks can be between 80 and 90 days - it doesn't come up with this 4.5 billion HUF. Once again, we see, as in compulsory kindergarten and nursery meals, that the government envisages about half as much funding in the budget as is necessary. At a committee meeting, I also said that the mayor of Gödöllő has already indicated that this year's budget loss of HUF 50 million has resulted in compulsory catering, because the government does not provide coverage to municipalities at 100%. Further steps are needed, which also require broad cooperation. It is therefore necessary to continue discussions with civil society and with all actors in society who consider this national issue important. We have listed several items in our proposal. Here, the children's meal for the needy 365 days of the year, the raising of the family allowance, or the suggestion that the circle of support should also be increased to high school children, because only 50% of those in need can receive support for high school children. Whatever proposal we are proposing, whether it is an amendment to the law, a proposal for a resolution or an amendment, we have been constantly seeing in recent years that the government is sweeping it off the table, even though this is the legislative amendment that we have prepared, I think it would be eligible. Each item only helps to solve the problem of child hunger and child poverty in Hungary. On the Welfare Committee, the Fidesz-KDNP majority swept him off the table. We are now asking those who are here and tomorrow to support this initiative. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[18.40]]
u2015-11-30-242	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Jobbik!
u2015-11-30-243	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, we are living in a political culture in which I first have to do a political creed on the proposal: Jobbik does not look at the party or persons proposing it when it takes a position on a proposal, but only its content; if it serves a good cause, we support it, if not, then we reject it. We have also made it clear in our 2010 Parliament that we will support any proposals that serve the interests of the nation, which we will not, and that we will oppose. Accordingly, we will also decide on this proposal. Unfortunately, he did not make a secretly political issue out of it by Péter Harrach, Katalin Csöbör or Lajos Kósa, when they said that the proposal to eliminate child hunger could not be supported because of the opposition proposal, the opposition took over the issue for itself. That's the XX. It's a century political mentality, a political culture that Jobbik wants to deal with. In particular, on the professional side of the proposal, they are obviously able to point out points on this issue, which we ourselves can relate to. But it would be good in itself to talk about the solution of this issue in substance, to talk about this proposal or the proposal for a decision on the national minimum programme, and to look for a solution to the fact that the 50,000 children who are starving permanently in Hungary will be put in a better position, or to put in a better position 47 percent of the families who are in the highest proportion in the European Union, and who have said that in recent years there have been cases where they have not been able to buy the right food for their child. They are the families, they are the children whose fate should be taken into account, and Jobbik will therefore support the inclusion in the series. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-244	Thank you very much. Congressman László Kács, MSZP!
u2015-11-30-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said, I would like to support in the language of numbers, based on the budget. We also had a big debate about this on the Committee on Budgets. We discussed - here we are actually talking about the last third of this year and the next year, we have two budgets at the moment, and for the last third of this year, from September to December, the government presented HUF 3.6 billion; the most careful and conservative expert estimates said HUF 7.3-7.5 billion that it was acceptable. In the following year, the government set 19 billion forints in the budget, the majority voted for us, and not the double of it, it is true, but according to experts, the cost that is acceptable is 29-30 billion forints, and we could have given it to those to whom it belongs. I think there's still time, there's collateral, and there's a way to change that kind of thinking. I don't like it when parts of the country or anything, just like settlements, get on the news by saying please, children are starving, and Sunday's lunch loan is made of greasy bread. I think that can be done, because in this budget of HUF 17,000 billion, we give 19 or 30 billion to what is most important, I think it is okay. If, based on this, a child is starving, they want to judge their representative, their local government, their mayor, their parents, whoever has the guts to do it. I don't think we politicians have anything to do with that, because we have something to do with the fact that a child who is starving from whose fault it doesn't matter. That is why we can do so, and that is why we have tabled this proposal. Blame whoever you want, but I think it's worth supporting. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-30-246	Thank you very much. Congressman Peter Konya, independent!
u2015-11-30-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If we say to protect the country, to defend the defence of the country, that these issues must be decided over all national interests and party political interests, then I think that the eradication of child hunger in a country must also become a national interest and cannot become an instrument for party politics. It is shameful what has happened in the People's Welfare Committee, and that the ruling party representatives have made a decision on this for party policy purposes, I think that everyone should come to their senses and think about the fact that in the middle of Europe, in an advanced European country, the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an important step forward. In the century, it is permissible for tens of thousands of children to starve in Hungary today. If it's not in our common interest to eliminate this, then what would it be? In any case, I consider the proposal of opposition representatives to be supported and supported. Thank you.
u2015-11-30-248	Thank you very much. Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz!
u2015-11-30-249	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I have to say, we're not talking about substance, we're acting on substance. Ladies and gentlemen, I am personally committed to the eradication of child hunger, just as Minister Zoltán Balog or Secretary of State Károly Czibere is committed to painting the picture just as dramatic. I don't know if you know how much money we spent to support children's meals in the year of the last MSZ-SZDSZ government. I'll tell you: 28 billion forints. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] Do you know how much money this year's budget is intended for this purpose? 61 billion forints. (Dóra Dúró: It's not true!) And do you know how much it will be next year? Exactly 72 billion forints. [[Dóra Dúró: Local governments added!]] We've increased it by two and a half times [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true! Dr. László Kács: You're not telling the truth!]] otherwise, support for children's meals. It's just interesting to note that more than 80 percent of the kindergarten age group eats for free. Now we have a law ahead of us, tomorrow we will vote on it, which will extend the provision of food for summer holidays and all holidays. But let me tell you, fellow Members, that as early as this year, there were more people eating free of charge during the summer holiday than ever before. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély was told at the committee meeting that the budget of 4.5 billion is indeed to provide care to 208 thousand children, but the experience is that 100 percent of children do not otherwise use food support. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You must give it to them!]] For example, in Kőbány, where we have provided for years, the size of the consumption was calculated by less than 10 percent, by 50 percent. And Ildikó Borbély also received the answer that in the event that a larger amount is needed, the budget will provide this. So any child who receives regular child protection support will also receive free meals during breaks. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] One more decision has been made by the government and Parliament: in the future, we will provide children with not three meals, but four meals during breaks as well. [[The president's ringing again.]] And, by the way, during school. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: from 2017, Member!]]
u2015-11-30-250	I'll see if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. On behalf of the authors, I see that Ildikó Bangóné Borbély wishes to respond, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then let us also talk about the fact that you were on the agenda at the plenary session of the European Parliament last week. It is true that Fidesz representatives, representatives of the People's Party, voted in favour of the proposal, but the EPP MEPs excluded from the final proposal, for example, the point that would have set a binding objective to combat child poverty, but also prevented them from putting the early school drop rate and the fight against child poverty in an explicit priority of governance of the European Semester and the Europe 2020 strategy. EPP and Fidesz politicians also voted against providing a separate European financial basis for a child guarantee for the health, education and social security of children living in poverty. Well, I beg you, what you've been doing out in the European Union is what you've done for the people and the fidesz politicians! They talk about it, but they don't do anything. You can throw numbers at them, Congressman, only municipal subsidies have been withdrawn, and basically they give you less than HUF 3 billion more for this purpose than in 2010, let's say. The other is, Congressman, that the municipalities are not using it. Then read the study that describes why the municipalities do not use social catering, why they are ashamed, they do not want to give it to the children. Give it to me when you're starving. You don't have to apply, you have to give it to me. This is not a political issue, it is a moral issue, Congressman. [[Márius Révész: The law is about to vote on it tomorrow! You have to apply.]] It is a moral question that this problem will be solved, and what has been going on within and outside the walls of Parliament for the past two weeks, I would not stand up and say anything, Congressman, because it was invaluable, the way that they started on this subject, it is invaluable! Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[18.50]]
u2015-11-30-252	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the H/734 on the assistance of members of the Honvéd Health Fund who have suffered damage without their own fault. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. First, I give the floor to Mrs Márta Demeter, who spoke on behalf of the authors, MSZP. Here.
u2015-11-30-253	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As is well known, some HUF 1.84 billion of the savings of the members of the Honvéd Health Fund have been stuck and lost due to the bankruptcy of Buda-Cash and the BRB. The more than 27,000 members we can call injured from this moment on are mostly soldiers, defense workers, law enforcement workers and national security workers. So we are talking about people who protect the lives and property of Hungarian citizens on a daily basis and protect our families. Our proposal for a decision concerns the early start of the compensation of more than 27 thousand people: the Honvéd Health Bank's claim against the BRB would be passed on to the State, while at the same time the State will pay the Hungarian Health Fund the amount corresponding to the claim against the BRB, and then the State will be able to enforce the claim transferred to the State, and certainly more effectively than the injured members of the Honvéd Health Bank. The proposal for a resolution is also about ensuring the necessary resources - once again, we are talking about HUF 1.84 billion - to the members of the government for payment. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are not talking about party politics. I would like to mention here that there is a concept called commanding care. I know that we are politicians here, so we are not thinking about the military hierarchy, but I think that this concept, even if we put it in quotes, is a very good example of the responsibility that politicians have at the time and must be committed to helping when people from whom we expect to protect the country are in a situation where they need this help. It has been raised here several times in the debate, because it has been discussed and raised in written and oral questions, and the Prime Minister's Office has expressed its intention to help these people - unfortunately, no solution has been found to this day. The Defence and Police Committee also had a Commission amendment, which, unfortunately, was rejected by the Committee on Budgets. In these debates, soldiers, law enforcement and national security workers were entitled to claim benefits, so they could get care at the Honvéd Hospital. That is true, but I would like to highlight with just a few examples what it is that they do not receive in this healthcare as eligible persons, but they can get access to it with their national health fund membership. It's drug support, sickness allowance, infant care, medical supplies, home care, I've only mentioned a few of these. So these are all the things that Parliament, in a way, deprives people of if it does not help them, who, by the way, have set aside this savings in good faith for reasons of health preservation. Furthermore, the ministries, employers, the Ministry of the Interior, the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Defence referred the cafeteria to these accounts, so I think from this he also considered it a reliable opportunity. So the members were in good faith, it's very clear. I would like to ask that Parliament does not wait for you not to give, God, that there will be no property that can be compensated for in liquidation proceedings, but that those who serve to protect the country should be compensated on this issue. There is now a law before Parliament - and I will not go deeper because there will be a debate about it later in Parliament - in which the level of over-service is greatly extended for both soldiers and defence workers. I think that, if this goes through Parliament, unfortunately, I have no doubt about it, I do not think it is good, but, regardless of that, there may obviously be an increase in the need for national health fund payments and money. So I would like to ask for your support on our proposal for a resolution. The question raised in the Economic Committee was that the Constitutional Court rejected the law in Quaestor's case and deemed it unconstitutional. That's what I'd like to clarify. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] it has done so under certain provisions, and it is possible to establish a constitutional and fundamental law for compensation. This proposal for a decision is an intention [[The president's ringing again.]] This is the basis of the law. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-254	Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik!
u2015-11-30-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I must also underline the fact that Jobbik is always looking at the proposal itself, the proposal and not the rapporteur, and therefore, in view of the importance of the case and with the intention to agree, we support the inclusion of the proposal for a decision in the subject series. Indeed, we are talking about nearly 28,000 people, soldiers, police officers, law enforcement workers and their families who lost 1.8 billion forints. I am aware that there are some cashiers who have collected for their little girl's eye surgery, had hundreds of thousands of forints in the cash register, and could not use it, unfortunately. I myself spoke on this issue in June this year, and on my question, the Secretary of State called this question a demagogic question, the question of compensation at all, and said that the Ministry had neither legal authority nor the possibility of compensation. In addition to being outrageous as a secretary of state, the government is completely inconsistent, because in Quaestor's case there was no legal authority, yet they were able to make laws that made certain compensation applicable. However, as we have just said, there is a decision by the Constitutional Court on 17 November that there is no law on a particular case, a particular company, which threatens this proposal. However, Jobbik's firm position is that compensation is needed, the victims of Buda-Cash's criminal bankers, including the victims of the Honvéd Health Fund, must be compensated, but it is very important that we charge this amount not to the budget, but to the banking sector. The Jobbik, as I have already said, will support this series of articles. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-256	Congressman László Kács, MSZP!
u2015-11-30-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor because the case is very parallel with the Quaestor case, in which I have spoken several times, and I think it is a great opportunity to learn from the questions we have already learned in the Quaestor case: how the Constitutional Court decides, how it should be interpreted; whether it has no procrastination effect, is it not, it is in one law, and there is no procrastination of a prior regulation in another law. And let us learn this: I am sure that the authors, as we are now, brought their proposal to the House in the Quaestor Act with the need to really help, and this will stand the test of constitutionality, and they themselves claimed that they do not believe that it is a test of constitutionality, so they have suspended the implementation of this legislation. What I would like to argue with is that, behind these arguments, which are sometimes childish, of course, sometimes just arguments, sometimes you know that this is not true at all, what you are referring to, behind these figures and behind these arguments, there are human fates, and there are no good fates behind them, my fellow Members. And then, when they ask the state to help, they ask that the state be able to wait until it takes place, when the assets are sold and the budget gets their money back, in Hungarian: it is easier to advance - it is not even as big as the Quaestor, so it is not 100 billion or 160 billion forints, which is still missing, 1.8 billion forints, we will decide on more additional requirements within a week or two, I am sure, with a budget adjustment - I think this can be added quite calmly. Let us learn from the mistakes of the past, and if you really want to help and act, then I think you know that it is right to press the "yes" button for this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-30-258	Thank you very much. Congressman Peter Konya, independent! [[19.00]]
u2015-11-30-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to this proposal for a resolution, I think it is time for us to come clean about the Honvéd Health Fund. You do not know, I know, because I served as a professional soldier that in 2010, when the change of government took place, as they took over the management of the wallet, the wallet management clearly expressed that both in the Hungarian Pension Fund and in the management of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund, they wanted to fill positions that would influence the operation of these funds, in Hungarian, how they could steal money from it. The thing worked as follows: in the Honvéd Pension Fund, they were able to elect their own representatives, representatives of the portfolio, while at the Honvéd Health Fund, they decided, using their right to self-determination, not to give in to pressure and not to include the representatives of the wallet in the management of the Honvéd Health Fund. This is a petty revenge for government officials, by the way, that they are unable to arrange for nearly 28,000 police officers, soldiers, firefighters and national security workers to get their money back. And while we're talking about the Buda-Cash scandal and the DRB Bank falling for losing their money, the truth is that the MNB, led by György Matolcsy, stole the money from soldiers, police and secret service workers. Before the DRB Bank fell, the management of the Honvéd Health Bank from the BRB Bank, so from the Buda Regional Bank, where the investments were held, started the transaction and the HUF 1.8 billion, which was there, this HUF 1.8 billion, was launched to transfer it to Raiffeisen Bank, and the MNB had their hands on it in the process. So they practically stole people's money. If you do not want these police officers, soldiers, who are now under heavy weight, to consider both the MNB and the government and you, pro-government representatives, to be a thief, you will support this resolution proposal. Thank you.
u2015-11-30-260	Congressman Erik Bánki, Fidesz!
u2015-11-30-261	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have already said at the meeting of the Economic Committee, we believe that all the victims, who have been the victims of fraud and who have lost their health fund savings, have been fraudulently stolen or invested in fictitious bonds and shares that have only been purchased on paper or distributed, or have not been covered, so we believe that in all cases where fraud has become the victims of Hungarian citizens, the government is working on it and is trying to bring help to the problem. I think this is what the government's attitude over the last few years has shown, even when we have made the banks accountable, and the unfairly charged commissions, exchange rate gains that the bank has calculated for its own benefit to the detriment of its customers, have always been recovered. In this sense, the government and the parliament have saved foreign exchange loanholders who were otherwise injured without their own faults, since most people had no idea what the exchange rate risk was when the governments of Gyurcsány and Bajnai encouraged capital to take on foreign exchange loans instead of forint loans. As Congresswoman Márta Demeter mentioned, indeed, the Constitutional Court's decision of 17 November found that the legislation was discriminatory when Parliament sought to resolve the claims of the victims of Quaestor, because it found certain details of the law to be against the law and annulled it because it had only applied a special case to them. I believe that the situation must be re-interpreted by the Constitutional Court's decision and that a solution must be found to which the victims of the Honvéd Health Fund can fit, and we therefore do not support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-262	Thank you very much. On behalf of the authors, Mrs Márta Demeter will respond. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the supporting contributions from my fellow Members, and I would like to argue with the Chairman of the Economic Committee in so far as the Constitutional Court has annulled certain provisions, certain pieces of law, in the other case you refer to, and I would like to point out once again that what is now before this House is a proposal for a resolution. So an intention that calls upon the government is binding, but also asks the government to create a law that is naturally in line with the Fundamental Law, and it is a feasible law so that the compensation of these more than 27 thousand people can be done. Therefore, there is nothing to prevent you from supporting this proposal for a resolution, since it is naturally the government's duty to draw up the appropriate law on this basis. If this can be done independently of party policy and through conciliation, it is, of course, very good, but I would first ask that the proposal for a resolution be supported in this context. So I could tell you what the state has spent 1.8 billion forints on, and I'm not going to do it. All I ask of you is that there be a political will in this matter. More than 27,000, mostly military, military, law enforcement, and national security workers, save for health purposes. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, the armed forces and the personnel of professional bodies will not appear on the street. I think that politics and all of us are responsible for realizing that we need to help them in this situation. I would very much ask once again that you support the proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-264	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2009 LXII on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The representatives of György Balla, Gergely Gulyás, Erik Bánki and Alpár Gyopáros, Fidesz, submitted T/7307. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee, calling your attention to the fact that you are not obliged to take the 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-265	Thank you very much for the information and the word. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/7307 on 26 November 2015. LXII of 2009 on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. A bill amending the Act was tabled by the Committee with 27 votes in favour, no votes against, a report with two abstentions and a summary amendment proposal. The amending proposal is one point aimed at bringing the law into force 90 days after its publication. This is necessary in order to give insurance undertakings sufficient time to prepare. Thank you for listening, please support the adoption of the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-266	Thank you very much. I ask who wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. Congressman György Balla says yes. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-267	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I simply asked for a floor for one thing, and I would like to thank all my fellow Members who support this proposal. I see that there is a complete consensus on this proposal. So far, my fellow opposition members in all committees have supported me, which I thank you very much for, but I also understand your support, because there is nothing else in this proposal but to try to force insurance companies to behave fairly when they have not thought of it on their own, because at present there has been nothing more to do with hurting those who have been faithful to them. New bonds have always been cheaper than old customers' fees. By adopting this proposal to enter into force, they cannot do so again in the area of compulsory insurance against civil liability in motor vehicles. So I would like to thank each of my fellow Members for their support so far. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-268	Thank you very much. It is my duty to remind you that you will have 8 minutes and 50 seconds at the end, but you will not be obliged to take advantage of that either. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak now. Secretary of State Agnes Hornung, please. [[19.10]]
u2015-11-30-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Like the previous speaker, I think that this is a proposal that is in everyone's best interests. By adopting this, the basic consumer protection objective can be met to ensure that compulsory insurance premiums are free of discrimination and that all insurance undertakings enjoy the same benefits. In our view, this could have a positive impact on insurance premiums and ultimately reduce the administrative burden on customers. I would therefore like to thank you for your cooperation and, with respect, the Parliament for adopting the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-270	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, please.
u2015-11-30-271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Mr Balla, Deputy Group Leader, has already thanked the factions for their support. I think you did the right thing, because basically, in the fact that it was only for the new customers to get a better offer, it has to be put in place, and old customers cannot be put at a more disadvantage, there is agreement between us, but let us not forget a few things. Not even so that necessary corrections can be made in the future, if not now in this draft law, but in line with this subject. One of these is the issue of accident tax, which was introduced from 1 January 2013. You know, that's what practically increased mandatory insurance, but so did casco. The mandatory insurance is about 30 percent, the casco is 15 percent. This increased the cost of compulsory car liability insurance in a very significant sense. It should not be forgotten, and on the other hand, once again, it is worth rethinking for the future whether it is okay or not. The other thing that you always emphasise, and this is in a close context, in correlation with the reference to the increase in tariffs, is the price of fuels. You know, you are aware that, let's say, before the 2010 government change, we had to charge fuel prices below HUF 300, and then in the spring of 2012 there were levels above HUF 450. But even now, after the decrease from 14 to 15 fuel prices are about 20 percent more expensive than they were before 2010. At the time, they talked about whether this was the result of the government's economic policy or its inefficiencies, and who should resign when faced with fuel prices above 300 forints. It would also be worth taking this on the basis of and considering whether someone really has to give it up on this issue. The only reason this is important is that, while the change in the prices of petrol shows a decrease from one year to the next, 12 per cent, for example, from 14 to 15 per cent, while there is a 3 per cent consumption surplus on the petrol market in terms of consumption in 95 and a mandatory increase of between 30 and 40 per cent in motor vehicle liability insurance is recorded during this period. And they say that there is a mandatory increase in liability insurance because more people are involved in traffic, traffic increases, and as a result more accidents. Once again, a 10-12 percent reduction in fuel prices results in a 3-percent increase in consumption rates and a 40 per cent shift in vehicle liability insurance. The average fee of 20,000 forints at the beginning of the year is now licking 30,000 forints. I would also like to make it clear that, in this sense, this kind of reference is clearly at least questionable. I would like to add one more item and, in line with the words of my fellow Member, Mr Balla, another two. From the point of view of competition, I think there are many concerns about today's regulations. I'm just gonna mention one thing. There are priority undertakings on the part of insurance companies, and the fees for these priority undertakings are practically higher than the charges in general. However, this is clearly an additional burden for the user. It would also be worth considering, in competition terms, whether it is reasonable to apply, or to provide, such distortions at the level of priority undertakings. The other two ideas, which relate to my fellow Member Balla's thoughts, are, in fact, confirmation of what he says. So the fact that the new customers are beneficiaries, and the old ones are indemnified, is safe to say, from the period behind us, this is not in place. This story obviously needs to be put in place. Putting it in place is whether we turn it around and old customers become beneficiaries, the new customers don't, or the new customers get the same discount as the old ones get; or applying the principle of the highest discount on which it doesn't matter whether it's an old customer or a new customer, if the new customer gets the discount, then the same old customer has to get the same discount. That's important in my opinion, because it doesn't matter where we're coming from. If the old one gets the discount, the new one gets the discount. If the new one gets it, we'll increase his old discount. The difference between this is that insurance companies that work with a large client base are practically maintaining their base, and no one will really move from there if we operate a system in the future that is about the old people getting the benefits, and the new ones either don't or just connect to it. However, insurance companies that work with a smaller client base obviously strive to obtain new clients. The only way to get new clients is to give them discounts. I think that's okay, but with the fact that if you give the new client a discount, you'll have to give it to your existing old clients. So duality should be enforced according to my judgment. The kind of duality to allow for the possibility of movement within the framework of insurance companies, but in no case should the old customer be disadvantaged, because the loyalty of the old customer must obviously be rewarded. So we have our agreement in this regard, and I would just like to say that if an insurance company undertakes to give a discount to a new client, then the old ones must also be granted. In English, with reference to the principle of the highest discount, the elimination of market distortion should be considered. That's the one thought I'd like to offer you once more to our mutual attention. And by the way, I say that yes, it is true that more favourable offers should not only touch new customers and the old ones should suffer disadvantage, but that all those who are involved in the story, regardless of whether they appear as new ones elsewhere or stay as old ones where they are, will receive the same discounts. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2015-11-30-272	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[János Volner reporting.]] Congressman János Volner, Jobbik. Here you go. [[19.20]]
u2015-11-30-273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not wish to repeat the arguments made by my fellow Members. For my part, I see that the government basically sees the car society as a dairy cow, and I can also justify this by saying that the government's ideas on transport have always been realised at the expense of motorists. For example, the introduction of the accident tax, mentioned by Nándor Gúr, by voting in 2011, which also increased the burden on motorists. In practice, the government has taken extra money from them in this way, which the insurance companies have already received from OEP, since insurance companies have already spent money on the cost of accident care; and the cost of driving has been significantly increased by increasing excise duty on the types of fuel. For example, a large increase in the excise duty on liquid natural gas fuel, an increase in the excise duty on diesel fuel, which was contrary to Fidesz's 2009 statements and aspirations, as the government even took a counter position at the end of the semester 2009. Since then, motorists have been hit by Europe's highest VAT rate, which has also been introduced by the government, like virtually everyone else by many other Hungarian citizens, with 27 percent to be paid by motorists at the fuel tax. On the whole, I feel that the proposal is fundamentally forward-looking, but it is not sufficient, and that similar efforts could be extended to other sectors, and on the other hand, I think that more should have been done by the government in order to achieve market developments, even within this proposal. I have already made my comments in this regard at committee meetings and elsewhere, and I will continue to do so in the future. So I ask the government to accept these comments. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-274	Thank you very much. Again, I would like to ask if there is anyone else who would like to speak out of the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to answer. [[On the sign of György Balla:]] Congressman György Balla is next as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-275	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say, however, that even if we agree on something completely, we cannot stand not to argue with each other, even if it does not belong to the subject, as is the price of fuels. In at least four to five minutes, this is obviously what we need to talk to my opposition colleagues about, or the accident tax, or whatever it is about. One thing's for sure: nothing stays like it's okay. I would like to respond to one or two specific comments. Several people used the word discount. I think they're wrong. Insurance comes with a price that people have to pay. Insurance companies did not give new customers a discount, but simply set a different price. They said that if you're a new client, that's the price; if you don't take the trouble yourself, or you don't spend your time constantly bugging him about how the car liability fee is now, but you believed that whoever you're honoring by constantly paying the insurance fee honestly, and then he's gonna appreciate you, you believed that he was gonna appreciate you, these people were just fooled because they set a different price. So I don't think there's any point in talking about a discount here. A significant part of the insurance companies simply deceived people. That is what I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Gur, just to make it easier for the Socialist Party to vote in favour. If we are not talking about a discount, but about prices, then the Member will clearly see that everything he wants is in the proposal. Because if we say that the price can go up to the old customers, and if insurance companies finally want to compete with each other with decent means, and not by deceiving their customers, they will be forced to lower the price. But the only way they can do that is to lower the price of old customers, and, as a rule, bring down the price of new customers to the level they want their clients to be with the existing ones. So I think that everything you said about getting new customers the same discount as old customers is in the proposal. This can be done, it's called price competition. What I would like to do with this bill is that insurance companies are finally not fooling people, not fooling their old customers, but simply competing with each other along normal market processes, and so as far as possible - I cannot estimate how much they can - lower the price for everyone, and I think that at this moment this bill has certainly achieved its goal. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2013 XXXVII on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/6986. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-277	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 26 November 2015 the XXXVII of 2013 on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. Act T/6986 amending certain laws The Committee presented 29 amendments, with 3 non-votes and 9 abstentions. The amendment contains the legislative committee's own motion. Ladies and Gentlemen, The most important provision of the amending proposal is that gambling casinos, online casinos, are included in the Toy Taxation Act 35. Article 35 in connection with the amendment of Article 35 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. § also clarifies its provision which will enter into force on 1 January 2016. On the basis of this clarification, as of 1 January 2016, not only gambling casinos, but also 3 percent of online casino gaming tax should be used for game protection purposes. With this amendment, the source of player protection will increase by 3 percent of the gaming tax of online casinos. At the same time, the amending proposal allows gaming organisers, not only remote gambling organisers, but all gaming organisers, to have 329/2015 on the detailed rules for responsible gaming organisation. Government Decree 22 to obtain the recommended Responsible Toy Organizer qualification under the government decree. Paragraph 1 (b) (bb) may be fulfilled not only with the support of an organisation belonging to the public supply system and therefore included in the information provided by the EMMI, but also with the support of other organisations involved in the action against addiction to toys on the website of the NAV. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-30-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion will now be presented. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, please.
u2015-11-30-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, I said as a minority opinion that despite the fact that there is also a question of the fulfilment of international obligations in this legislation, which was negotiated by the Legislative Committee and is now being negotiated by the Honourable Parliament, this proposal is still related to a number of lex Andy Vajna law, because part of this regulation is about completing a process, that those who can run a casino under a public concession are now completely clear to them, that they can also operate an online casino only and only they can operate an online casino. [[19.30]] The amending proposal also states that, after the difference between the revenue from the normal casino activity and the revenue from the online casino, if the online casino's turnover is higher, the company operating the online casino will have to pay a 15% extra tax, which is less than we do, regardless of whether it pays the rate of the basic tax. We think that online casino is a much more cost-effective activity. So here again, the state is filling the pockets of a known oligarch by simply imposing such a small tax on this difference. And what is most beautiful or perhaps the ugliest in this bill is that while the player does not have to pay taxes after winnings from the online casino, he has to pay taxes at foreign games. So, for example, you have to pay a prize tax on a foreign jackpot prize, not on the money won at the online casino. The point is that everyone spends their money in Andy Vajna's online casino. The amendment presented by my fellow Member Vejkey, Vice-President of the Committee, is quite amazing, because 3 percent of this tax revenue is still available for player protection. So it's not actually there to stop players, it's not there to stop them from entering the casino, it's what the casino owner pays as a tax that can be used to protect players. If only this was the case in the bill that players should be protected and that prevention programmes should be developed and financed in relation to them, it would be another acceptable proposal. But this way, in such a context, is not eligible. The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction will not support this bill, we are not willing to contribute to Andy Vajna's money bag gaining weight. Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr and Dr. László Kács applaud.]]
u2015-11-30-280	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Madam Secretary, if she wishes to speak now. It indicates that you will have 10 minutes at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Congressman Dénes Pigeon, Fidesz, please.
u2015-11-30-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, XXXVII of 2013 on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens we have before us an amendment of law and a bill amending certain laws. The general debate took place on 4 November and the Economic Committee, as a designated committee, held a detailed debate on the bill at its meeting on 10 November. The most important aspect of the amendment to the Act is that the 2014/1007 Act adopted by the Council of Ministers was adopted by the Council of Ministers. Move the EU Directive into Hungarian law, which is the former 2011/16. amends the European Union Directive. The essence of this is to regulate the automatic exchange of tax information between tax administrations within the European Union, thereby helping to combat cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion. In addition to the transposition of EU directives, the bill also provides for amendments to the law on the organisation of gambling and personal income tax. Parliamentary amendment came only from Mr János Volner, which was not supported by the Economic Committee. The Committee did not express its own intention to amend it. The Legislative Committee discussed the bill at its meeting on 26 November and made an independent amendment proposal, which my fellow Member, Imre Vejkey, presented to me as rapporteur for the Legislative Committee. I would like to highlight three of these. The Legislative Committee has adopted the summarised amendment in 11 points, and I would like to refer to what is relevant. There are three points that could have substantially affected the bill. The part of what my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth objected to, I would like to underline, as my fellow Member Vejkey indicated, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, that, according to point 3 of the amending proposal, from 1 January 2016, not only gambling casinos but also 3 percent of the online casino gaming tax should be used for game protection purposes. This is the green number that can be called day and night, as well as information on community care. I think that these are not measures that are in vain, as my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth indicated, but, as in the earlier deviant periods, when we scolded and condemned their operators with regard to the one-armed robbers, the help that can be spent on them from the amount of money that comes in outside the social care system, I think it is definitely a useful thing. I do not agree that this is not applied by the law. Point 5 in the submission of the TAB relates to the fact that the client's due diligence is a prerequisite for the player's registration, so the registration cannot be identified by customer due diligence. Point 6 is also the summary amendment and the report by the TAB. The provisions in force on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing are clarified in this point 6. Dear House, With the expansion of investment opportunities in a wide range of foreign financial products, the existing instruments of EU and international administrative cooperation in the field of taxation are no longer effective enough, and cooperation between tax authorities in the international space should be facilitated. In this way, tax evasion and tax evasion may be reduced. On the other hand, there are also amendments to the proposal that strengthen the coherence of legislation in the case of gambling laws, protect players and clarify and improve the obligations associated with the payment of public burdens. As has been said, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-282	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the remaining time frame. Congressman János Volner, Jobbik, here you go.
u2015-11-30-283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I said earlier, Jobbik will not support this proposal. Once again, this is a proposal which, in addition to many, otherwise important amendments that are part of the framework of European harmonisation, again contains provisions that will give Andy Vajna more money. My fellow Members, I am speaking primarily to you on the Fidesz website. Can the average person in Hungary agree that, while half of the salary of an average Hungarian person is taken away by the state in the form of public charges, he collects taxes and contributions, while, for example, the tax burden of Andy Vajna is much lower, which he is obliged to pay to the Hungarian State as a toy tax? Can the Hungarian small entrepreneur, who was forced to change his old cash register to an online cash register with an average cost of HUF 150,000 each, agree with your politics, while, by the way, in gambling casinos, it is not yet possible for the machines and cash registers to be connected to the tax office? I wonder what this duality is for. Because of these and similar reasons, Jobbik will not support this proposal and will vote against it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-284	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP!
u2015-11-30-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member Bertalan Tóth and János Volner also said the things I will not repeat, but I agree with the thoughts expressed. So the dissonances and contradictions that have been said above should be resolved, and the government should take a different direction in them; because this direction is not in the interest of honest people, but of those who operate in the Fidesz moonyard, and they are the beneficiaries of the story. My second sentence is that when, say, on a tax, contribution and tax reduction issue, they talk about this type of reduction, with an order of HUF 10 billion, I would like to say to you that you are also well aware that Hungarian bureaucracy is three times as large in its proportions as the European average, so to speak. So when about 10 percent of the budget is the method of bureaucratic costs, i.e. 10 percent of GDP, 3000 billion in size, 10 billion forints is so small a fraction of this story that they do not sing big praises around it. [[19.40]] Yes, it is important, it is necessary, it is good in certain areas, and it is unacceptable from the other side on the basis of the contradictions I spoke about earlier, but it is not a drop in the sea in measure, it is less than what should be done. After all, over the past nearly six years, these burdens have increased in scale, and to the extent that they are far beyond what they are about to give back as lollipops or act as if they were giving back. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-30-286	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now, please, as far as I can tell, no one's reporting. I'm going to ask you this as a question. [[There's no candidate.]] I can see that. Consequently, as no one has made themselves known, the debate is closed, and now, Madam Secretary of State, order.
u2015-11-30-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I wouldn't add much to the word, because I think the people before me have given me the whole point. The current 2013 XXXVII. Law essentially has two pillars, proposing two main amendments. One is for compliance with EU and international tax institutions. It introduces the regulation to ensure that Hungarian financial institutions fulfil their due diligence and communication obligations to the tax authorities, as I think everyone has agreed before. This serves as an obligation to harmonise EU and international standards. With this current amendment, we will meet both the requirements of the European Union and the OECD, and we will be in line with the FATCA proposal prepared under US rules. I think that there is no particular debate in this regard, this is a Eligible proposal. What raised a number of questions was the proposal to organise gambling. This also fundamentally changes three points and introduces new rules on three points. Two of these are basically, I think, once again, a more easily digestable and visible question. One clarifies the game protection rules and the other is that 3 percent of the game tax should also be used to protect players, so this supports this game protection system both from the point of view of regulation and financials. There is still a great deal of confusion, and it is also questionable: I would like to say so much about the proposals relating to the taxation of gambling, in response to the speeches I have made before me, that this proposal does not change the current rules, but introduces new rules compared to the current rules. Thus, it basically introduces a new tax obligation at two levels: at the level of players' organizers and at the level of personal income tax. One appears in the legislation itself by adding an additional 15% tax burden to the additional revenue of online casinos in addition to terrestrial casinos. I would like to point out that this is the tax burden that already exists above the tax burden of 30 per cent, so we have not taken anything from the rules that have been adopted so far, but we have added another kind of tax burden to gaming operators that also operate online casinos. The second rule is that the SAY law introduces tax rules at player level. I would also like to note here that since 2013, gambling revenues have been exempt at player level. This tax exemption is now superseded by the current rule of introducing an additional tax burden at player level by imposing the obligation to pay taxes on income from the foreign jackpot system at player level. I therefore believe that this rule ensures that online casinos and operators of terrestrial casinos make a proper contribution to tax revenues. With these words, I would like to ask the consent and support of this House in order to make this proposal acceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-288	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, It follows the 2011 XLIX on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Act 1 and Act LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The representatives of Péter Csizi, Erik Bánki and Imre Vas, Fidesz, submitted by T/7406. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee, here.
u2015-11-30-289	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that on the 26th of November 2015 the Legislative Committee discussed T/7406. XLIX of 1990 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Act 1 and Act LIII of 2012 on the enforcement of the law in the Court of Justice. a bill amending the law. In this context, the Rules of the House 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 7 against and 3 abstentions. The amended amendment adopted contains a proposal for an amendment of the Judicial Committee and a proposal for amendment No 1 of the Legislative Committee. Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to speak in a few words about the amendment of the law. The bill seeks to resolve the situation where a claim has been seized in the context of a criminal lockdown ordered in order to secure another claim and, as already due, a claim has been paid to the executive deposit account under cover insurance. In that case, if the original creditor were to enforce the claim either in the enforcement or in the liquidation proceedings, the debtor would do so twice and would have to initiate a separate procedure to repay the amount not due to the creditor. Please support T/7406. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-290	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you will have 7 minutes 55 seconds if you wish to use it. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary Major will tell you yes, please.
u2015-11-30-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill initiating the amendment of the laws on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings and judicial enforcement seeks to resolve the situation in which a claim in criminal proceedings has been seized under a lock ordered to ensure another claim and the amount of the claim has been paid into the executive deposit account. The bill contains restrictive rules excluding the enforcement of such claims in winding-up proceedings or judicial enforcement proceedings, thereby preventing the debtor from fulfilling the claim essentially twice. No individual amendments were tabled to the bill. However, the Judicial Committee and the Legislative Committee submitted Commission amendments, which included partly codification and text-focusing and partly substantive amendments. The Commission's amendments were supported and supported by the Government. Dear Parliament, During the general debate, the government's position on the provisions of the bill was described in detail. [[19.50]] According to the government, the provisions of the bill are justified and justified, so they are supported by the government. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the summary amendment and the bill. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-292	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki on behalf of the authors. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-30-293	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As Parliamentary Secretary János Fónagy and Imre Vejkey have already presented in the drafting of the opinion of the Legislative Committee, the bill before us, which contains amendments to the laws on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings and the law on judicial enforcement, mainly outlines new procedures for the protection of the debtor, which were left out of previous laws at the time of their creation, but the liquidation practice and enforcement practice have revealed that there are specific cases in which we need to intervene in order to protect debtors, as they may be at their disadvantage. Thank you very much for your comments and suggestions in the Commission's debates and in Parliament's debate. I must say that there was no substantive or sharp criticism of the bill, but at committee meetings there was mixed support for it. I would like to thank the Economic Committee in particular for the amendment which, in part, put technical and partly substantive proposals into the bill, which further helped the legislator's intention to deal with the problems encountered in the practical application of existing laws. I believe that the adoption of this summarised amendment proposal and the adoption of the basic legislative proposal will succeed in implementing the legislative will to ensure the greatest possible protection for debtors both in judicial enforcement procedures and in winding-up proceedings. I think that this is the responsibility of all of us, and I trust that by adopting these proposals we will be able to do so. I ask my fellow Members to support both the summarised amendment and the bill in the final vote in Parliament. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-30-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-30-295	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In essence, I would like to say that, although it was said that so many criticisms did not come to the bill itself, we could still be so critical that the timing or the manner of imports was unusual in that it was not so long ago, perhaps in the middle of October, that the House, together with the private institution of bankruptcy, discussed the amendment of the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, where, in our view, it would have been possible for us to replace or fill this legal gap. Perhaps then it would have been possible to avoid an amendment to the legislation which we have not so much loved as an individual motion. But I also stressed in the very first part of the debate that it is in good faith that one who reads it and actually sees a legal vacuum behind it. Although I have not encountered this legal gap in my own practice, it can be said, in an analogy, that this could indeed be a significant protection for the right holders. But somewhere there's still the little devil in your mind, who you might be born for, let's say, legislation so quickly imported. I say, in good faith, you will find that the measures to protect the right holders will benefit the right holders involved in the proceedings, but I would like to draw the attention of the public in any case to the fact that it is worth keeping a better eye on such a bill, on so many amendments, in particular that a significant amendment has been made by the Committee at the Commission stage, so to speak, to the rapporteur's comment or intention to amend it. And what is interesting is that there was talk here about the direction in which the legislative intention is going. In such cases, particular attention should also be paid to the intentions of the law enforcement authorities or their work. Obviously, the courts, especially if they are specifically involved in the amendment, will be specifically involved in the modification of bankruptcy proceedings or winding-up proceedings in this way, it is absolutely necessary to have some kind of consultation. I do not know whether individual Members have, by the way, conducted such consultations in this regard, or, by the way, in the previous amendment, had their request or their comment on this in the consultation, but perhaps this should be carefully monitored because, ultimately, as legislators, we now place on their shoulders the difficulty that they, as enforcers, will have to deal with this, and in disputes, also during bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, but they will certainly have to make the right decisions in the course of judicial enforcement. If, by the way, this bill tabled as a motion for individual representatives will stand the test of time, that will be decided there. You'll have to watch this some other time. In my view, the mixed criticism was due precisely to this, as the rapporteur said, to the fact that the way in which this legislation was submitted, the way in which it was negotiated, the intentions of the amendments, or the receipt of them, gave rise to a slight suspicion as to what could be the original or the real purpose of this legislation. Of course, this will only be clarified in the future. But it is certainly worth a few - and then we can say to the socialists such a kind word - to put an exclamation mark next to this law, of course, an exclamation mark that draws attention to the need to pay attention to how this will be achieved in life. There really is a legal vacuum that you're trying to replace. Basically, that's what was said, I think, in the debate. Such opinions may have been expressed at the committee stage. I thought it was important to say this in order to show that an increased attention was also coming to such an individual proposal. Overall, if this is indeed in the interests of the right holders, it must, of course, be supported. After all, they must be supported in such a misguided economic situation, when something comes to the point where they have to participate in bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, and someone after the rightful outcome, after the property they have left behind, goes like this, or the state tries to help them restore this balance of economics, this reimbursement in which they assist the rightholder. Overall, they will now have to be put in the pan and see how much support the parties will otherwise receive on the day of tomorrow, during the votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-296	Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP, please.
u2015-11-30-297	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am in a lighter position because my fellow Member Luke has already said a significant part of his professional arguments, and I do not intend to repeat that. However, I would also like to express some of my concerns in this debate. One of the things that was also concerned, Mr Luke, is that with the rapid amendments of this kind, when, moreover, a law which was also here shortly before the Parliament, we are amending it, and that it should also be applied to the ongoing proceedings, and that, moreover, Mr State Secretary's response did not convince us that this is indeed a problem that should be resolved suddenly, it is in question, or at least a bad feeling of whose interest this bill is now being proposed. It comes up because we have had a lot of bad experiences in the last five to six years, as far as personalised legislation is concerned. I would very much like to be reassured by the rapporteur and secretary of state in a slightly more meaningful way than he did at the Committee on Legislative Affairs, because it is no coincidence that this problem or this doubt arises in opposition factions in relation to the bill. The other: I could put it this way if I wanted to play with the words that your legislative standards are bankruptcy, because this law, as I said, may have been discussed here in Parliament two or three weeks ago. Ladies and gentlemen, It would be good if the submission were preceded by a certain professional consultation, because although we do not like salad laws, we do like the House to be able to discuss all the amendments to a given law at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that there are laws returning to Parliament in order, they return to the Legislative Committee in order... - and not only to correct the codification and other content of the previous laws with their new proposal, but also, let us say, in the Legislative Committee, there is still a justification, if I remember correctly, from the Secretary of State, that the amendments, which amend this individual motion, which also amends an earlier one, where an error has occurred, also contain technical clarifications. [[20.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, However, there should be one expectation, and I will say it now, I have said it before, and unfortunately it seems that, based on your practice, it will be necessary to say in the future that it is worth submitting a law when they can consolidate and create it in a coherent and good quality. That is why I am opposed to such laws being tabled by its representatives in the form of separate motions. It would be much better if you went to the professional and administrative negotiations, say, as a government proposal, and then such mistakes, which now appear in this law, would not occur. So, in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, as regards motivation, we have some reservations about the bill, and I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that we must not codify it at this level, it is not worth it, there are a thousand problems, apart from creating extra work for ourselves. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2015-11-30-298	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak out of time. [[For application:]] Congressman Imre Vejkey, KDNP!
u2015-11-30-299	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As rapporteur for the Legislative Committee, I do not wish to repeat what has just been said, but after opposition speeches it is important to stress that there are two reasons for this amendment. On the one hand, there is a need to clarify technical issues, and on the other hand, current judicial practice has raised issues that have led the tenderers who have submitted amendments to prevent legislative amendment from developing the legal vacuum and unexpected disturbing case-law and the current regulation that, to be said, does not allow the possibility of double enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support T/7406. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-30-300	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to ask you if you would like to speak out of the remaining timeframe. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Therefore, the debate, Honourable Parliament, is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to react. [[On the sign of Erik Bánki:]] Congressman says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, I declare that the Government initiated the procedure of the Legislative Committee on the organisation of gambling in 1991 XXXIV. Act LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. In order to negotiate a law and a bill amending Law No I of 2004 on sport, the Commission's report will therefore not be debated at this meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1993 XXIII on the National Cultural Fund. Act and CXL of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/7403. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-301	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On 26 November 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/7403. No XXIII of 1993 on the National Cultural Fund Act and CXL of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. a bill amending the law, and to that end the committee of the House Rule 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 19 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment includes the eight-point amendment series submitted by the Committee on Culture, which was also adopted by the Legislative Committee by 19 votes in favour, 4 against and without abstentions, which contains mainly linguistic and legal clarifications, as well as additional points on public library provision and public education in 1997 CXL. amendments are made to the law on the regulation of library provision. The amending proposal complements the bill with a new section, i.e. it creates substantive rules on the basis of which the mandate for the ministerial regulation is granted, while complying with the 2010 CXXX on legislation. Act 5. Paragraph 3 of this Article. Urban and municipal public libraries provide a significant proportion of the population with library services, but their quality varies considerably. The development of development proposals creates an important element of a public library strategy at national level. The technical requirements in this respect are set out in the Minister's Regulation, which is included in the amending proposal. Let me add that the collection of county libraries represents a unique value, which must also be made available electronically. The importance of the task justifies the presentation of the county library as a statutory state task. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-30-302	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: No, thank you.]] Secretary of State says no. You'll have 10 minutes. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German nationalist advocate, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-303	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag vom Ausschuss der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlages Nr. T/7403 des Gesetzes Nr. 23, Jahr 1993 über den Nationalen Kulturfonds und des Gesetzes Nr. 140 uber die musealischen Instituten, Versorgung der öffentlichen Bibliotheken und über die öffentliche Bildung erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the National Cultural Fund (NEC) XXIII of 1993. Act and CXL of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. T/7403 on the amendment of Law T/7403 Bill No.3 on the provisions concerning the rights of nationalities. The two points of the bill that specifically affect nationalities in Hungary are 15 and 16. §. The amendments are necessary because the current rules of the cultural law do not give rise to the definition of the collection area related to the collection of ethnography, history and fine arts in the case of a museum institution classified as a collection circle of natural sciences or as a minority fund. In the case of county-wide urban museums and regional museums, it is necessary to provide for a derogation from the main rule defining the collection area due to the methodology for collecting natural sciences and the complex collection of ethnic ethnographical culture and historical and artistic monuments. [[20.10]] The criteria for the examination of the request for derogation and the annexes to be attached are laid down in the Regulation on the licence of the museum institutions. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary agrees with and supports the adoption of concrete legislative amendments, but we would like to highlight a few things in advance about the special situation, opportunities and problems of the rural houses of nationalities in Hungary. Overall, the Association of Hungarian Landscape Houses makes the number of ethnic landscape houses in the country nearly 400, but only a fraction of them have an operating permit. They have practically the same problems, regardless of nationality, region. The lesson is given, because to operate, to start the institution, it takes money and it takes a lot of money. Significant amounts can only be expected from applications, and to do so, you need an operating permit, the conditions of which are tailored to museums, cannot and will not be met by an average landscape house. And here the circle closes, because in the vast majority of cases there is no money for a permanent ethnographer, the communities are afraid to accept the operating licence, because only those who can produce at least their own part can apply. The fundamental problem is that the regulation on the operating license of the 2/2010 OKM museum institutions lacks a clause, a definition that treats landscape houses as special, unique institutions, not museums under the same hat. The Association of Hungarian Landscape Houses has already initiated the correction of the regulations, but so far the legislators have not overruled or corrected this regulation. Unfortunately, the operation of hundreds of landscapes is impossible, and modest collections cannot develop and develop. The point is that access to an operating licence should be promoted in a priority way. But the problems are not over here, because where they are able to establish the institution, they are faced with restrictions on the calls for tender. For example, Article 9/2014. Unfortunately, the EMMI regulation also restricts the participation of the authorised ethnic landscapes in the Kubinyi Ágoston programme, as only local authorities are entitled to apply. Nationality landscape houses, which have been taken over by the municipal minority self-government, cannot apply unless the local government supports their operation by HUF 2 million per year. We understand and even agree that the regulation-maker would like to see a guarantee of sustainability and survival, but this does not put the minority self-governments in a fair, vulnerable, impossible position. In order to improve the overall situation of ethnic landscape houses, collections and museums, it is absolutely necessary to review and amend the regulations, laws and applications referred to in the above points, which will be initiated by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities after proper preparation and consultation. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-304	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Congressman Robert Simon, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, T/7403. The legislative proposal on the National Cultural Fund, as well as on museum institutions, public library provision and public education, concerns two laws. It is a novelty of the proposal on the National Cultural Fund that the Hungarian Academy of Arts has a similar role in shaping the funding of artistic life as the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has spent a long time in the allocation of funding resources for scientific life. Just as there is no point in discussing why the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has heard its voice in many areas of life, there is no point in questioning why it is good for art if the Academy of Arts does the same. So far, half of the decision makers have been appointed by the Minister in the NKA, then one third, while the representation of the arts, together with the MMA, is growing from 50 percent to two thirds. In my opinion, this amendment of the National Cultural Fund Act is a crucial cultural strategy step. The proposed amendments to the NCA Act provide the opportunity for cultural operators to decide jointly on the allocation of resources for the survival and development of Hungarian culture. Freedom and openness of cultural life are fundamental values for the Academy, so it is clear that it will cooperate with other organisations involved in the cultural creative work. The main objective of the provisions of the proposal is to ensure that the public body and the National Cultural Fund cooperate effectively in a regulated and balanced manner. I am convinced that the proposed changes will also strengthen the activities of the NKA, and that its work will be assessed. If the proposal is implemented, the MMA, as a public body, is substantially linked to the work carried out in the National Cultural Fund, thereby providing valuable support for the performance of public tasks. The other important element in the proposed amendments is to improve the professional status and development prospects of urban libraries and municipal public libraries with a population of more than five thousand inhabitants. The library service system operated by county libraries provides efficient and economical public library provision for settlements with a population of less than five thousand inhabitants. On the other hand, although it is for the county libraries to coordinate the development of municipal libraries, the practical impact of this provision is not felt with regard to settlements of over five thousand persons, it is therefore necessary to clarify the task. Urban and municipal public libraries provide a large number of librarians with library services, but their quality varies considerably. The development of development proposals would create an important element of a public library strategy at national level. The technical requirements in this regard are proposed to be laid down by the Minister in a regulation. The local knowledge collection of county libraries is unique, the most accurate and detailed information about the county in question. The local knowledge material of each county library shall contain museum library documents which represent a national information value and shall be made available electronically. The importance of this should justify its representation as a public task, while at the same time drawing the attention of its maintainers to this function of national importance. The proposal is linked to another task, the obligation of the library to make them available, the implementation of this proposal in the county library will be facilitated. Further proposals to amend the bill are of a linguistic or codification nature. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the proposed bill on the basis of what I have just said, and I ask you to do the same. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-306	Thank you very much. We now have the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. Given the particular situation of the President, I am sure that there is less with one speaker, so I now give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to say three very simple sentences. One is that, according to our judgement, the dismemberment of the universal institutional system of Hungarian culture has started or started to do so, and I believe that they have launched inaccessible processes. The other concerns the pooling of financial and financial frameworks of the Hungarian Academy of Arts and the National Cultural Fund. In this regard, we perceive that political loyalty prizes are being made, so there are not very good processes in this regard. [[20.20]] The third sentence is that, as a sum, we cannot appreciate this in any other way than the fact that through this draft law, culture is, so to speak, being completely attacked and occupied by Fidesz, and we do not really see it as the right way. I could also say that with all due respect, I ask you to reconsider this story, but even if I do, you will not think again, and I am fully aware of that. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-308	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak out of the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I find that it is not, and therefore the debate is closed. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Secretary Peter Hoppál. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-309	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have come before the House with a very important consolidated bill, as we have heard from the speakers. I am pleased that, at the Commission's stage, in the general and detailed debate, there have been overwhelming majority supporters. Reading the summary amendment proposal, which was created as the work of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Legislative Lawmaking, we can, of course, support the Government with a good heart, since these actually coincide with the ideas of the rapporteur and we can identify them with the minor substantive amendments. Allow me to respond here in the debate and at the earlier stage to the proposal from the minority spokespersons for a brief thought. It is natural for us to think that the role of landscape houses as an important part of the museum's institutions is a key museum task, but we did not touch this regulation at the time of the opening of the law because a comprehensive national programme appears to be drawn up before our eyes. Under the professional supervision of the Open Air Ethnographic Museum in Szentendre, the government is developing a programme that we hope can also help the landscape houses of nationalities. However, I thank you very much for the sign that points to the difficulties of maintaining it, as it has had a wide variety of maintainers in recent years and decades, perhaps even these landscape houses. It is above debate, I think we all agree in this room that these landscape houses show a kind of local identity and the diversity of the Carpathian Basin, but at the same time a professional programme must be drawn up to pinpoint the task and responsibility of the plurality of the maintenance environment. The first steps of this program have been completed by the Ministry. I will respectfully ask that we try to find the necessary and sufficient condition, in cooperation with the Hungarian nationalities, to ensure that it works effectively and efficiently. Thank you for the support and contribution of my fellow Members to the debate. Of course, I must once again post the last left-wing opposition statement - which is about the pooling of funds for the National Cultural Fund Act - by not relying on accurate information from our fellow Member Gúr, because there will not be a merger here. We do not wish to pool any funds as proposed, we only regulate the delegation practices of the National Cultural Fund and the Government, as well as the Academy of Arts and professional organisations, and the government itself withdraws a little of its own delegation powers if the minister responsible for the current culture can delegate members to the various professional colleges, the NKA's decision-making system, to only one third instead of 50 percent so far. At the same time, the experts who are still involved in the National Cultural Fund, who are still involved in their decision-making and college, who are actually sitting there today as members of the MMA, are finally named by law as delegates of the Hungarian Academy of Arts in the operation of one third of the important cultural funding pillar, the National Cultural Fund. So thank you once again for your participation in the debate and for your valuable contribution, as rapporteur for the single amendment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-310	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports to be submitted to the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the publication of the contract on mutual assistance in criminal matters and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/7352. The Commission's non-individual orientations are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-311	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/7352 on 26 November 2015. on the draft law between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the publication of the contract on mutual assistance in criminal matters, and in relation to that, the Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 28 votes in favour, 2 votes against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contains a single technical amendment proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The growing economic and legal relations between Hungary and Kosovo justify the conclusion of a mutual legal assistance agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo, with the aim of establishing a legal framework for judicial assistance in criminal matters between the two countries. The application of the Convention will make criminal cooperation between the two countries simpler and more effective and will help to combat international crime more effectively. In the Convention, the two States undertake to provide each other with legal aid in criminal matters in the event of such a request. The Convention sets out the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing assistance, sets out the central authorities designated to send and receive requests for assistance, the content and the mandatory annexes to the request for assistance, and includes cost-bearing and data protection rules. In addition to the general rules, the Convention contains special rules. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-312	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] The Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There's no way to make a two-minute comment. Would anyone like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[No one's reporting.]] I declare that it is not, and that is the end of the debate. I'm going to ask the author if he has anything to say, but since no one has spoken, I'm not expecting a big response. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] It says no. Thus, Honourable Parliament, the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the publication of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan and the debate on the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/7355. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I now give the floor once again to the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here. [[20.30]]
u2015-11-30-313	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/7355 on 26 November 2015. on the draft law between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the publication of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, and in relation to that, the Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 30 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. In this case, the summarised amendment also includes the single technical amendment proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Economic and legal relations between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan are constantly expanding, which justifies the conclusion of the Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the two countries. The application of the Convention in this case will also make it easier and more effective to carry out judicial assistance in criminal matters between the two countries and will help to combat international crime more effectively. Certain articles of the Convention comply with the internationally accepted provisions of modern legal aid agreements in criminal matters, as well as with the Hungarian legislation in force. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee proposes that the bill be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-314	Thank you too, Congresswoman. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State if he has something to say right now. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. We now have representatives' speeches. There's no way to make a two-minute comment. Would anyone like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I understand that, since there has been no speech and the Member has said everything, she does not wish to respond to this. As I ask the Secretary of State, I obviously do not think that he can or wants to react. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Therefore, honourable Parliament, the debate is closed, the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting, and I will inform you. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the termination of the levy and administrative service fee for certain official procedures and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/6988. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. I'm gonna ask if anyone on the legislative committee wants to say anything. [[For signal:]] Yes, the Members of Patience will speak [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: And the persuasion. Defiance.]] And we are now listening to this in the person of Congressman Vas Imre. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-315	The Legislative Committee discussed and supported the proposal. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-11-30-316	Thank you very much for your extensive speech. I'll ask the author if Mr. Secretary wishes to say anything. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács, please.
u2015-11-30-317	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government supported the single proposal. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-11-30-318	Thank you very much. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. We now have representatives' speeches. There's no way to make a two-minute comment. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I declare, Your Honour, that it is not. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he has anything to say now. [[For signal:]] Yes, please.
u2015-11-30-319	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I would like to say very briefly to him, given that there was no debate, and at the TAB meeting the Members did not argue on this subject, because, as has been said in the general debate, this issue helps citizens to a significant extent, to the extent that administrative service fees or charges are not payable in the order of HUF 10 billion, if approved by Parliament in its final vote, from 1 January 2016. The government has decided to cut red tape, and we have proposed to amend some 110 laws in this respect, which has already been announced by the President of the Republic. This will be continued and continued with the current proposal for the 2010 programme. We have targeted a number of social groups in it, from young people to entrepreneurs in general, so that their budget for the document family can be reduced. To this end, we not only came up with and suggested in this area which such administrative service fees or levies affect a wide range of citizens in the country, but also the citizens themselves gave their opinions on about 400 thousand of the various questionnaires, and then put the proposals they put forward in the draft law. Dear Parliament, Given that this has been supported by Members of Parliament sitting in different parts of the horseshoe, I ask that they continue to do so and do so in the final vote, as this is in the interest of the citizens of the country. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-320	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, LXXX of 2001 on the return of illegally exported cultural goods follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/7399. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Once again, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-321	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed T/7399 on 26 November 2015. LXXX of 2001 on the return of illegally exported cultural goods. a bill amending the law, and to that end the committee of the House Rule 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 20 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the three-point technical clarifications of the Cultural Committee. Following the adoption of the EU Directive 2014/60 on the return of cultural goods unlawfully exported from the territory of the Member States and amending the EU Regulation No 10112, Hungary's obligations to harmonise its laws have become necessary, in accordance with Article E of the Fundamental Law, to amend the legislation in force. The proposal primarily aims to amend the legislation in force in accordance with the provisions of the new directive and, secondly, to include changes which are necessary to enhance the internal coherence of the legislation. The purpose of the legislation has remained unchanged. Dear Parliament, I ask that you support the bill, taking into account the opinion of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-322	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] Secretary Kovács, please.
u2015-11-30-323	Mr President, The government supports him. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey applauds.]]
u2015-11-30-324	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. We now have speeches from Members. No two-minute comments are possible. First, I give the floor to Members of Parliament who have applied in writing. Congressman Vinnai, Fidesz, please.
u2015-11-30-325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, LXXX of 2001 on the return of illegally exported cultural goods. It is an amendment to the law, and this bill, which is before us, is the T/7399. He's got a number on him. [[20.40]] Only the technical repair package, which contains codification and language clarifications, was submitted by Fidesz for this bill. This was supported by the committee, and there was no debate about it. In view of this, a more detailed debate on the bill can hardly continue in a well-founded way, and we are beyond the general debate. I note that during the general debate, all key speakers, the lead speakers of all the factions, also supported the amendment of the bill. Dear House, I believe that the bill will bring about consistency with EU legislation and that it will be good for better action against illegal trade in art. That is why I hope that the proposal will be supported by the factions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-326	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State as rapporteur. Here you go, Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács.
u2015-11-30-327	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to begin by thanking the parties in Parliament for their supportive attitude towards the bill, as well as the previous one. I would like to say that the return of illegally removed cultural objects was first regulated in 93 - Council Directive 93/7/EEC. In order to protect cultural heritage, the directive aims to allow Member States to return to their territory the cultural goods which have been exported to the territory of another Member State in breach of Council Regulation (EC) No 116/107 on the export of national legislation or cultural goods on the protection of cultural objects. The most recent amendment became necessary with the adoption of Directive 60/EU of 2014 amending EU Regulation No 10112 on the return of cultural goods unlawfully exported from the territory of the Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council. These provisions gave Member States a deadline of 18 December this year to regulate this issue. The Prime Minister's Office therefore submitted the bill in compliance with its obligation to harmonise legislation. As I said, thank you once again for the attitude of the opposition parties, we do not know the position of the LMP, because they were not there. Dear fellow Members, There was only one Commission amendment, and Győzsef Vinnai has just spoken about it, which contains codification and language-placed clarifications. Thank you very much. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-328	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1994 XLV on war care. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. MEPs János Lázár, L. Simon László and Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz, submitted T/7391. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to ask the author if he would like to speak now as his representative. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Thank you very much for your patience, Mr President.]] I haven't given you the floor yet. I'm just asking. Now I'll take it you're going to speak up. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács as his representative. Try the microphone, I'll talk to you. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I could also say, as the former Member, that I am not a polyester, that I know everything, but I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament and thank him for the supportive attitude that accompanied the general debate on the bill. Thank you very much for understanding that this perhaps a little too late brought forward, but still important social problem... - which, unfortunately, after the passage of time, many people have not been able to compensate for either financially or morally by submitting the bill, but those who are still alive and have been unfairly harassed, we think that this will help them. I felt that all parties would support this proposal tabled by Minister János Lázár, my fellow State Secretary L. Simon László and myself. Please keep that attitude in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-330	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. Secretary of State, please.
u2015-11-30-331	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join Mr Zoltán Kovács in expressing his thanks, and on behalf of the Government, I would also like to thank my fellow Members, my fellow Members in opposition and party groups, for supporting in the debate the Hungarian Parliament to pay off this late debt and to acknowledge the heroic standing of all Hungarian soldiers who have been almost forgotten over the past decades. Thank you very much, and the government naturally supports the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-332	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the designated National Defence and Police Committee has not presented a rapporteur. There are now speeches by Members, and no two-minute comments are possible. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if you have a supportive comment, this does not need to be explained in epic length, but there is a way to indicate with the right compactness if you agree. In the light of this call for attention, I give the floor to Members in a row; first, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-333	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As my fellow Member has already pointed out, we are talking about a law, an amendment that was born by almost consensus in the Hungarian Parliament. I think that this is a very good example and an example to follow in any way in matters that require a national consensus. The law on war care was amended in June. We are talking about very forward-looking amendments, and my fellow Members have mentioned the substance of this. The current amendment is about ensuring that this bill is actually feasible and workable in practice. So, as we supported this bill in June, we are doing so with a good heart. The MSZP therefore supports these amendments. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-334	Thank you very much. Speech by Members seeking a normal word; Member László Kucsák, Fidesz, here!
u2015-11-30-335	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Adopting the presidential guidance, then allow me to comment on the fact that the current proposal contains a focus on the interpretation provisions in order to support those who have suffered losses in the interests of Hungary, the Hungarian State. Thus, the intention of the legislator does not deviate from the previous text in force, as it now extends to Hungarians across the border, but the legislator did not aim to take into war care a dual Hungarian citizen who needed war care because of an event or loss of Hungarian or non-Hungarian interest. Another reason for the amendment is the clarification of the designation of the determining authorities, given that all claimants should have a two-tier redress system. The procedural rule is clarified by the proposal because, in the case of applicants of Hungarian nationality across that border, it assigns the authority of second-degree war care to the Minister responsible for defence. Here, allow me to mention that I have just had the opportunity of the capital of the 18th century. in the district of the Pestszentlőrinc-Pestszentimre district office to participate in the reception of the 200 persons receiving such war care in our district, welcoming Uncle Sándor from here, wishing him good health. [[20.50]] So far, 238 cases have been decided in our district, and there are cases where, thanks to the procedure, regulation, some have not yet been included in this supply system. I hope that we can settle these further, and then soon the 300th, 400th such handover can take place with us, the capital of the 18th. in the vicinity of the region. It is indeed a welcome form of supply, and I trust that it will continue to be supported by all political forces. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-336	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik!
u2015-11-30-337	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I don't intend to discuss the time available either. Of course, Jobbik also supports this proposal, which is also explained in the general debate. Unfortunately, our only amendment bled out in committee. This was about 30 percent of the minimum amount of the old-age pension, as we know. That's what we wanted to raise to 50 percent. During tomorrow's votes, this small mistake can be compensated, i.e. cosmetics, by the pro-government representatives, because we will be asking for a separate vote on this. I would also like to highlight one more thing. At my fellow Member István Szávay's high-rural host hour in Dunaszerdahely, an old gentleman was discussed on this subject recently, and the question I am asking the government's authority was raised there. Foreign Hungarians without Hungarian citizenship whose ancestors spilled their blood for the Hungarian country in the war are not among the wards. This problem should also be solved, as their entitlement is, in my opinion, indisputable. This will have to be taken into account later, and a legislative amendment will have to be made in this regard. Because it must also be taken into account that there are countries in our environment where the admission of citizenship is hindered by legislation - I am thinking mainly of Slovakia - and there the situation of foreign Hungarians in this area is much more difficult. I recommend this issue to the members of the government for consideration. On the other hand, I reiterate that Jobbik supports the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-338	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey, KDNP!
u2015-11-30-339	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary group is also happy to support the bill. We believe that our fellow countrymen who have fallen for their country should receive adequate care for their successors. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-340	Thank you very much. For example, as you summarized, I encourage others to do so. In fact, I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] That was a sufficient amount of time to consider. I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Zoltán Kovács, if he wishes to react. [[On Dr. Zoltán Kovács' signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-341	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I would like to respond very briefly to what has been said. My fellow Member, Kulcsár, is right about the fact that it is much more difficult to achieve Hungarian fate and Hungarian citizenship in the Highlands. But it was also a big word that we extended this bill to Hungarian citizens when it was created - here the emphasis is on the citizen - and not taking into account what you said, there are indeed Hungarians who are not Hungarian citizens and who would be entitled to this form of support. We need to think about how we can legally solve this problem, because there is no debate between us in solving the human problem. It was also stated in the author's exposé that a wide range of rights will be clarified during the summer amendment, including László Kucsák, and that those who have suffered losses in the interests of the Hungarian State, and in the spirit of equal opportunities, the children born after 1 January 1949 would also be entitled to war care. We would like to ensure that all Hungarian citizens who were entitled to this payment under the legislation of their age are able to benefit from the care of war. We were trying to achieve legislative coherence. I would like to inform the honourable Members that there are now 45,000 people - our elderly, especially over 70 - who are eligible for the current support. By the way, if the amount is added up, in many cases a 13th or a 14th month pension will come out. We think that it is not primarily money - although it is important - but rather the moral satisfaction that is due to these people with a difficult fate. In this context, I would also like to ask for your support for the adoption of the clarification bill, and I would like to thank you in advance for your support for the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-342	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain national defence laws and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/7400. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman!
u2015-11-30-343	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/7400 on 26 November. and adopted a legislative proposal with 24 votes in favour, 8 against and 2 abstentions, and a summary report. The adopted summary report contains a two-point amendment to the Defence and Police Committee, which aims at linguistic and legal clarification. The primary objective of the proposal is to exempt civil servants in defence and law enforcement bodies from the obligation to work on the basis of the employer's authorisation. The aim of the bill is to provide more flexibility for the performance of these tasks under a joint agreement on the working time arrangements of the military and civil servants in the defence sector, if they are personally involved in disaster prevention tasks or in the management of a crisis caused by mass immigration. It should also be noted that the proposal, in view of what has already been said, would focus on clarifying certain legal status issues on the basis of experience with the involvement of the Hungarian Defence Agency in disaster management tasks and the introduction and first application of the crisis caused by mass immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-344	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minority opinion, seven minutes tops. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó. Here you go.
u2015-11-30-345	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to point out that I would also like to give the minority opinion of the Defence and Police Committee now, because then there is no need to repeat it. The same debate took place in the two committees. According to the minority position, the main point of the debate is that this bill would radically transform legislation on the working time and service time of the civil servants and professional staff of the Hungarian Defence Office. First of all, we have very serious concerns about the crisis caused by mass immigration, because under the proposal, the maximum annual overwork available for civil servants will increase to 832 hours. This is 104 working days, with a small head count we can see precisely that this means that each weekend, every Saturday and Sunday, every weekend of the year, they can be ordered to work too much under the law. Of course, the bill adds that with their consent. But in a military organization, we'd be interested to see what the consequences would be if someone said they wouldn't agree. Besides, we know exactly how today's world works, and about the next day, they'd be looking for another worker, and he'd be on the street. We don't think that's normal. [[21.00]] The second thing that is even more serious is that, with regard to professional staff, it is simply by order of the commander in charge of the organisation of services that the legal limit is, of course, that no over-service can be ordered today above the number of hours set by law. With regard to this regulation, we would like to make it clear that it is not only amazing in terms of stock, and we think it will be counterproductive, but I will address this specifically, but we believe that this solution is simply unconstitutional. The crisis caused by mass immigration - the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian government and the Fidesz majority - made the bill so, with a half a bill here in Parliament - can be ordered by the government for six months, and can be extended at any time after six months. So this crisis can last for years. Compared to this, in the Hungarian Constitution, in the event of an emergency state, the Fundamental Law also provides for a textual provision and a two-thirds protection law to limit people's over-service by a separate regulation. So the fact is now that in a state of war, even in the event of a war, soldiers have a greater legal guarantee of who and on what grounds can order them to overdo them than in this migration situation, otherwise defined by a half-life law. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] It was said in the debate by the Ministry that this is limited both territorially and in time, and also in terms of stock. But that's not true. I just told you, the time limit under current laws could last for years. The territorial and stock constraints also do not stand in place, because, as we know, and we can see, the vast majority of the mobilizable stock is today controlled by those border sections, guarding the fence, and therefore, in its territorial and personal scope, the vast majority of the stocks that can be taken to war are affected today. And another sentence that's as important as that. Today, the army is struggling with a lack of 5500 people. This was announced by the Chief of Staff himself at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee at the beginning of this month. If, in your opinion, the solution is not to fill up this number, to take immediate measures to address this shortage of staff, but to squeeze out the last of the existing stock, then, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that they are playing with fire again. Not only is it because these people have a gun in their hands and that others and their own lives are under threat of physical safety if they are obliged to do such over-service without limit, but also because, fellow Members, as a result, not only will the shortage of numbers be resolved, but they are also endangering further mass disarmament in a situation where a crew soldier with a contractual staff has a net salary of 70-80,000 forints. That, in addition to a net starting salary of HUF 70-80 thousand, you are sending a message to this stock that without any legal guarantee, your direct boss will tell them how much over-service they have to perform, whether unlimitedly, that, I think, could result in further mass disarmament, which is completely absurd and can clearly be said to endanger Hungary's security and security in the current situation. If you want to solve the border defense, please put in place a programme and a plan on the part of the Ministry of the Interior that can ensure the protection of the border by law enforcement agencies and withdraw the defence from the temporary care of this task as soon as possible. And if you want to guarantee the security of the Hungarian people, you should be kind enough to fill up the number of people and to deal with the personal and technical equipment of the Hungarian Defence Forces, not to try to eviscerate the remaining personnel without any legal restrictions in the future. We believe that the adoption of this law is a national security risk and a security risk, and therefore we strongly recommend to the pro-government majority not to support it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-11-30-346	Welcome, fellow Members. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, if he would like to comment. [[Signal.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you. I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the designated Defense and Police Committee.
u2015-11-30-347	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On 24 November 2015, the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee held a detailed debate on the bill amending certain laws on defence matters. The committee, examining the bill, concluded that it was in compliance with the Rules of the House 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. During the committee meeting, the Ministry of Defence clarified the concerns raised about the proposal. Experience with the migration situation at the border has justified that provisions on the working time of the military and civil servants in the defence sector, provided that they are personally involved in the management of the crisis caused by disaster protection tasks or mass immigration, provide more flexibility for the safe performance of these tasks on the basis of a joint agreement. At the committee meeting, the opposition challenged the possibility of this change and spoke about possible abuses. However, the present Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence clarified when and under what conditions these measures could be applied and informed the Committee that the basic guarantees would continue to apply. The Committee shall be composed of 45 House Rules. The Commission submitted a proposal for an amendment, which closed a detailed debate, which included proposals for amendments, supported under paragraph 5 of Section 5. The committee closed the detailed debate on the bill on 24 November. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] The Commission has tabled a proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate, including proposals for amendments, supported by its representatives pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. The committee closed the detailed debate on the bill on 24 November. Thank you very much for your attention. (A round of applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2015-11-30-348	Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In this context, I give the floor first to Mr Péter Agh.
u2015-11-30-349	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, From 1 January 2015 until the end of the year nearly 400 thousand migrants passed through our country. The task of law enforcement agencies was to bring the masses of migrants within a framework that was controlled, according to the opinion of Hungarian citizens. Despite the sharp criticisms of the opposition, it can now be said that our country has been relieved of the pressure of migrant masses and that the wave of immigration can be successfully stopped. The attacks in Paris have also proved that there are real internal security risks associated with mass illegal migration, because it is now a fact that two suicide bombers in Paris have arrived with a mass of migrants. Undoubtedly, the additional tasks of the Hungarian Defence Forces have not been planned so far due to the previous situation and the current situation. I would like to thank the Hungarian soldiers, on behalf of myself and the Fidesz faction, for the sacrifice and, indeed, for the hard but successful work they have done in order for Hungary, as well as for the order of the borders of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Events in recent months have warned us that we are facing new types of challenges, and therefore the defence must adapt to these situations. These experiences have justified the need to change regulators. Accordingly, the purpose of this bill is to provide for more flexibility in the safe performance of these tasks by means of a joint agreement, in so far as the provisions on the working time of the civil servants and civil servants employed in the defence are personally involved in disaster prevention tasks or in the management of the crisis caused by mass immigration. [[21.10]] This would only apply to a very limited time and situation, only during a qualified period. The experience of border events is that more flexibility should be introduced into the system, because in a situation where the commander is to release the soldier when it is not reasonable in time, think about travelling here, and it is not possible to apply the working time properly at the time of the basic order. It is important to point out that this flexibility can only be imposed during an exceptional period, which applies for a limited period, not for the period of the basic order. A further amendment to the bill compared to the previous one is that it would relieve the burden of defence burdened by the crisis with armed security, so this provision will also serve the better and more efficient functioning of the defence. In addition to the above, the proposal aims to clarify certain legal issues based on experience with the involvement of the Hungarian Defence Forces in disaster management tasks and the introduction of a legal institution for the crisis caused by mass immigration and the use of it for the first time. The performance of its contributing tasks in relation to the management of the crisis caused by mass immigration under the 2011 Act on measures to be introduced in the special legal order may necessarily involve the use of a significant number of staff with an increased intensity and a prolonged period of time. Given the objective size of the personal conditions available and the considerable amount of tasks to be carried out, it has therefore become necessary to supplement the relevant chapters of the law on the status of soldiers in order to make the personal framework for the provision of exceptional and special tasks flexible. Ladies and gentlemen, Defence is indeed a national matter. Crisis management solutions are needed in critical times. In view of the objectives set out in the bill, we support this proposal and encourage all Members of this House to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-350	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2015-11-30-351	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Member before me mentioned that they thank the Hungarian Defence Corps for their work, and I think that there is something to thank for. There is much to be thanked for in the last five years, because the Hungarian Defence Office is only functioning today because it is as committed as it is. We can see very well how they are thanked for their work. For example, with a salad law that is now lying in front of us. My fellow Members, and I say the same to the Secretary of State, this is not flexibility! It's not flexibility they're talking about, it's a scam! Flexibility should have been reflected when, for example, the defence budget was discussed. It should have been more flexible up and up the defence budget much earlier. Or, for example, I mention another word: responsibility. The responsibility of the government for failing to fill the workforce. As my fellow Member said, the Hungarian Defence Office is understaffed by 5,500 people. The number of the Hungarian Defence Forces is as follows: allow an exact quote from the parliamentary resolution on the detailed breakdown of the Hungarian Defence Forces. The Hungarian National Assembly determines the authorised number to ensure the full fulfilment of the Hungarian Defence Office's tasks under the basic order. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's what the parliamentary resolution says. Compared to this, the Hungarian Defence Office is struggling with a shortage of 5500 people. I would like to draw your attention, as my fellow Member has done, to the fact that the ad hoc, quick management of this shortage of staff or the solution of God is not possible, because we see that this is what the government is struggling with, what it is doing now, because the tasks of the Hungarian Defence Office have increased, and it will not be possible to fully deliver the current stock. I would like to draw attention to the fact that they are working at 120 percent, yet they are abolishing all restrictions on them, and from now on their work can increase to 180 percent. This is what is expected of these committed people, for whom I would like to say here that everyone is, of course, aware that they have a much higher capacity, a load-bearing capacity than an average Hungarian citizen, but this does not mean that these people are machines. What are these amendments about? I would also like to highlight three important elements. One is the delivery of civil servants, defense workers. The parties' agreement is bound by the bill, which in itself is extremely cynical, since we know how much this depends on the public employee's intention or not. Thus, they suspend the countless provisions of the Labour Code by common agreement, and from then on, these people can be obliged to overwork 832 hours and extraordinary work. This is 104 working days plus, and since it's 52 weeks, you can have unlimited work all year round. What happens to the soldiers? There was a limit of 300 plus 150 hours of overtime. This is something that we also manage to suspend, so they will be unlimited in burden. In the case of soldiers, the following legal provisions are suspended: rules on conduction, rules on the duration of service, inter-work breaks, rest periods, rest days, public holidays, this limitation of the over-service I mentioned, watch, watch and standby services. So these legal provisions can be completely suspended. The third thing I would like to highlight is why this proposal, which we are talking about, is against the law. Even in a special legal order, it is necessary to regulate the rules governing the performance of services by decree. So it's not up to the chief of staff to determine that. And they're also doing all of this in a completely unconstitutionally half-baked law. I understand that this is becoming almost a practice, but I think that in the matter of security, which is indeed the responsibility of the government, what it does for security, what it does for the protection of Hungarian people, for the efficient functioning of the Hungarian Defence Agency, it is not permissible to take such irresponsible action. And I will mention only by the side that it has been found once again that the government has lied, because when they adopted the concept of a crisis caused by mass immigration and the amendment of the law, which makes it possible, they have denied that this would mean a new special legal order, and they have also claimed that the laws in force will not be suspended in the event of a declaration of a crisis. Here is an example, my fellow Members, that it will be suspended. If this proposal is adopted, it will, on the one hand, be found that they have lied, and, on the other, I think that it will all go against the rule of law and constitutionality, and that this step may indeed pose security risks. The shortage of the Hungarian Defence Forces, the fact that they have not been responsible for this issue in the last five years, is clearly the responsibility of the government. Even if they do not admit it, they may begin to see the fact that there is no rush of ad hoc measures in defence matters, no ability, no stock can be created from nothing, but rather a continuous, predictable strategy and construction is needed. We have seen that in recent years the Hungarian Defence budget has been steadily reduced, and we have also seen that there has been a constant decline in personnel, namely the contractual crew, who are the backbone of the Hungarian Defence Agency. There is a shortage of about a thousand people in this stock category alone, so there is no delay in dealing seriously with this issue. We absolutely reject the adoption of this bill. We tabled amendments, as my fellow Member mentioned in the minority opinion, but did not support them. We continue to maintain that neither civil servants, defence workers, nor soldiers can be subjected to such conditions. It is clear that the tasks of the Hungarian Defence Forces will increase in the future due to changes in the security environment, which is why we expect you to think responsibly. If the government does not change this proposal, which lies before us, it is itself causing a security risk. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-352	I now give the floor to Gregory Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik. [[21.20]]
u2015-11-30-353	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I must stress once again that Jobbik was the only opposition party that rose above the political battles and was able to support and support the government in the fight against illegal migration. We voted in favour of everything that was in our country's interest on this issue, whether we can talk about the deployment of the army at borders or we also supported measures on the construction of the technical border closure. Not to mention that we were also the leaders in closing refugee camps, so that refugee camps would be out of the cities and out of the settlements, and that the townspeople would not suffer what happened there. I would also like to respond to what has been said here in a few thoughts. In relation to the shortage of staff, it has been said several times by MSZP representatives: this is a real problem, everyone knows, but the MSZP is not a very credible critic on this issue, as the socialist governments played a very important role in the downsizing of the defence. The government, the current government, is taking a very bad course in managing the shortage of numbers. We should not protect military objects with security companies, but consider Jobbik's proposals. I'm thinking of voluntary military service, which is not a military service, before anyone can see that Jobbik wants to restore the army. It is necessary to make the military career attractive or motivate young men with other discounts to apply for this service, or to mantra the establishment of an independent border guard, which we desperately need. The events of the last few months have also proved this. We are curious when the government will wake up and announce that the independent border guard must be restored, which has also been abolished by socialist governments. In connection with the proposal, we had an amendment, which is the 6th amendment. It would have taken a section out of the bill. This was supposed to be about the government not only admitting in words the work of the soldiers working there, our soldiers serving at the border, but in doing so, as is the case in Article 6. We would have excluded from the proposal, which, of course, was not supported by the governing party, which would have recognised the work of the soldiers, because this paragraph is about the fact that the soldiers who have performed there, who have not yet had a proper replacement, have not received overtime money, would practically legitimize this practice. We have proposed and proposed the application of the rules of conduct in this case, and there is no need for any changes, so that the various benefits, absentee fees, reimbursements and so on will be granted to service soldiers. If this does not get out of the proposal, Parliament will vote on it tomorrow, and Jobbik has asked for a separate vote; if this is not out of the proposal, Jobbik will in no way be able to support this bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-354	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for a minute and 14 seconds.
u2015-11-30-355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What they're doing is shocking because they bring about changes in the basic rules that affect the world of work, which are nothing more than destroying fundamental rights. Think of the fact that weekly working hours are 48 hours, overtime is 250 hours, the cash, the collective agreement is 300 hours, and they can all be varied in terms of the written agreement of the parties. But the fact that 832 hours of overtime or 52 weeks of Saturdays and Sundays for 104 days is what does that week look like? Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. So where's the time between them where you can regenerate? So, you are pursuing a self-dangerous policy in this regard, I would like to point out. It's unacceptable. You are triggering the existing shortage of numbers with extreme pressure. That's not acceptable. One more figure at the end. You know, when, from 2010 to 2015, over five years, our financial resources were reduced from 1.06 per cent to 0.75, i.e. by about 30 per cent, what are they talking about? Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP. - Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2015-11-30-356	I will ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I have not seen an application, but I will give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary.
u2015-11-30-357	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'll tell you the truth, I'm disappointed. I thought that since the general debate, the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party have become a little more involved in this bill, they think about its letters and its spirit, and if they look around our world and notice how much the world has changed in the last few months, and we live in a different Hungary, other Europe and other world than even a few months ago, I am a little shocked that you are still talking about the fighter advocacy union, although your age would not justify the fact that, as in the old Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party, trade union comrades have been sitting there, still speaking as trade unions here in the Hungarian Parliament, talking about responsibility and responsible thinking, while it is also your responsibility to keep the people in Hungary safe. We have also said in the general debate that there is no constitutional concern, we have repeatedly said that extra money is due to the soldiers for extra work, and I have said myself that if we appoint someone as commander, then we must trust the commander that he will be able to decide with responsibility what order he gives to his subordinates. If we don't trust him, let's not make him commander. And I think it's a little absurd to mention a dangerous policy in this situation. I think that dangerous policy is followed by those who want to be more trade unionist than the union and oppose the letter and spirit of this bill. I would like to emphasise once again that the trade unions, whose job is to protect interests - both public servants and soldiers - fully agreed with this proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this bill and the amendment in the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-358	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2015 XLII on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and other related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/6979. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-court time frame. I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-30-359	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to inform the Parliament that, at its meeting on 26 November 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2015 XLII on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. T/6979 on the amendment of Act T/6979 and other related laws. The Committee adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour under the Rules of Procedure, with 5 abstentions, without voting against. [[21.30]] The summarised amendment includes 12-point technical amendments to the Defence and Police Committee and the legislative committee's own amendment proposal. The main purpose of this amendment is to improve salaries, and it also includes the following changes: it applies the same rules as those of its subordinates and introduces a new category of salaries, including other categories of payments. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-30-360	The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2015-11-30-361	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, This bill is also a salad that has parts that have nothing to do with each other. In addition, the second part of this, the two-thirds amendment to the National Security Act, has been explicitly brought before the House in a sneaky way and has caused quite serious press coverage and scandal. First, let us look at the fundamental part of the proposal concerning professional law enforcement. There are some forward-looking parts of this, which we said in the debate, which has not changed. The fact that the continuation of the increase in wages of the stock will be guaranteed under this law is ultimately eligible, although here it is necessary to note again the way this is done, as we said already in the previous amendment of the law, that the new Hst. It does not guarantee the 50 percent wage increase that the government has announced, but it has been chosen to touch the law year after year, once in a while, so that they can hold the additional wage increase promised. We're looking at one step of this right here with an extra five percent. In addition, they have succeeded in re-introducing rules that are particularly negative for the stock, which we simply do not understand why they take every opportunity to make further restrictions on the stock. These include, for example, the increase of over-service and standby time to the maximum within the framework of the European Union, by the way, parallels with the protection law that we have just discussed, although there is no doubt that there is a qualitative difference in the fact that at least the maximum within the legal rules is provided for, as long as the previous is fully unlimited and unconditional over-service. Such is, by the way, the possibility of giving up on the right to complain in the law, which we know for sure is not what it means in a hierarchic organization operating with a system of command control in the civil world. So this can be interpreted less as the possibility of a waiver from the right to complain than as a threat that could potentially give rise to blackmail potential against the person subject to the procedure, and therefore we cannot support anything like this. Such is the granting of additional disciplinary powers to the police, which is also completely absurd and contrary to all democratic rules, but we also believe that it is a healthy spirit of the stock, because the fact that we hand over to an organisation based on quasi-determination to punish each other or to punish themselves on the basis of internal regulators, we believe that this is a completely sick attitude and is not an acceptable solution. But what's really strange is the amendment of the National Security Act, which has a point that can be supported, and we have said this both in the five-party talks and since then, this would allow national security services, in terms of postal services, to employ their own full-time, so-called built-in people in postal services. The justification for this, which the Ministry of Interior has put in favour of the regulation, is completely justified and acceptable to us, because if the liberalisation of postal services occurs, and postal service providers owned either by private, or by foreign private or foreign states will appear in Hungary, and they will handle the private letter secrets of Hungarian citizens and even the correspondence of the public administration, then it is in the interest of all Hungarian citizens to have a person in this company who will take care of what kind of movement within that company, whether by a criminal association, criminal organisation or foreign secret services, can be found informally and can take action at the right time. In addition, the completely strange wording, which, according to BM's own declaration, was not aimed at what many people later thought was the possibility of putting people in the free Hungarian press, if I remember correctly, was finally clarified by the submission of an individual amendment by our fellow Member Vas Imre, that it was not the government's intention and that it was intended to be removed from the law. However, I would also like to draw attention to a very important part, which we have also sent to the government in the form of a proposal amending it and in the form of a political message that it is not eligible, and that we cannot secure our vote for a two-thirds majority until the bill also gives virtually unlimited authorisation on this issue, by allowing this in the Government's resolution for bodies protected by national security. Why do I say that? This also covers municipalities today. From this point on, it is also possible at any time to plant full-time, otherwise covered, quasi-bricks to the municipalities, who will report on the operation of the municipality there. But our biggest problem is not only that, but that with this construction, the government can cash a two-thirds blank cheque with the operation of the government decision later on, and can extend it to virtually any area of life. What really spooked us was that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Minister of State at the Ministry of Interior not only gave a reassuring reply, but also confirmed that this government decision was being reviewed in BM. What its content is, or what additional areas they want to extend it to, or possibly to give up existing ones, did not respond to it. So the most important problem and the biggest reason is that we cannot support this bill is that from now on we would like to have a two-thirds blank check for the current government, and with a simple government decision for any organization, this otherwise very, very hard secret service tool, so that we can employ an undercover person in full-time employment, extend it. We are not at the level of confidence today so that we can secure a two-thirds mandate for this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2015-11-30-362	I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if he'd like to comment now. [[Károly Kontra: No, thank you very much.]] He doesn't want to. I now give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the designated Defence and Police Committee, once again.
u2015-11-30-363	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Parliament, At its meeting on 11 November 2015, the Defence and Police Committee conducted the 2015 XLII on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. a detailed discussion of the bill amending law and other related laws. The committee examined the bill and concluded that it was in compliance with Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. During the detailed discussion, the Committee discussed the amendments contained in the annex to the report, examining whether they comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee presented a proposal for a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate, including proposals for amendments by the supported representatives and their own intention to amend them. The committee closed the detailed debate on the bill on 11 November. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-30-364	We now have speeches from Members. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh.
u2015-11-30-365	Dear Parliament, The government considered it one of the priorities of the years following the 2010 elections to create a state that serves the interests of the common good, the nation and the community. This may be based on a solid legal order based on public law, which is provided by the Fundamental Law. The Fundamental Law also settled, inter alia, the constitutional situation and the fundamental rules governing the operation of law enforcement bodies. [[21.40]] The previously adopted law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies was clearly designed to stabilise the state of law enforcement personnel performing public tasks and to ensure their recognition by drawing up long-term and predictable careers. The bill settled the status of law enforcement agencies, and the new regulation also started the multi-stage wage development of the staff members in early July. Ladies and gentlemen, More serious salary increases were only under the first Fidesz government in the home affairs sector, but the current one is much larger. The majority of law enforcement workers received with satisfaction the new career model and salary increase introduced on 1 July 2015. The salaries of the members of the professional base and of the civil servants of the law enforcement agencies increased by around 60,000 people in 2015. This increase in wages is significant as, by the end of the five-year wage development process, the salary of all members of the stock will increase by 50 per cent. In addition to the law enforcement staff, the salary of the staff of professional law enforcement agencies increased by 5 percent from July and by another 5 percent from next January. The wage development is multi-stage, the first phase of which took place on 1 July 2015. The main objective of the current amendment is to implement the next phase and to establish the rules for the development of salaries on 1 January 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, The Ministry of Interior held two five-party discussions on the bill, in which it clarified the objectives of the proposal, but nevertheless there was a misunderstanding about the bill. Several news portals assumed that the government wanted to send secret services to the editorial offices of various press organs, which was due to a bad wording. The Ministry of Interior has clarified what the misunderstanding was based on. The term "content providers" is also used by the Communications Act, which has not been taken into account in the current bill. The definition of content providers is not precise enough, given that the National Security Act does not contain any explanatory provision on them. It is therefore necessary to specify the specific legislation in the future, which is defined in the provisions interpreting the services in question. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, it is even more obvious that the work of Hungarian law enforcement agencies is outstanding, because by them Hungary has shown its ability to protect its citizens and its own external borders as well as the European Union's external borders. On the basis of what has been said, we respectfully ask you to support the necessary legislative amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-366	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2015-11-30-367	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, From this law enforcement, I'd say, the salad law shows that the government really has something rather strange to think about about security issues. We know that Hst. was adopted by the Parliament in April 2015. In this they promised predictable, continuous salary increases, careers for law enforcement workers. This was also supported by the MSZP precisely for this reason. This would otherwise have entered into force on 1 July and was already amended by the Parliament in June. This means that the rules on the new salary scheme should not apply from 1 January 2016 but only from 1 January 2019. This is a very good example of the fact that exactly the guarantee that the stock could expect in a predictable career was not given exactly that guarantee. This was amended only one month before the entry into force. The fact that if we had to highlight one positive aspect of this salad law, which is now before us, then it would be that next year the 5% increase in salary seems to be ensured by this proposal, but I have to say that, by the way, there is roughly all the positive aspects of the proposal. It is a matter of fact that there has been a multi-party consultation on the proposal. It has achieved so many results that the MSZP has, of course, proposed to amend it, that, for example, in the section concerning the National Security Act, the paragraph of compulsory use of the staff of the services at the request of the Director-General of National Security Services of the infrastructure application and content providers, as defined in the separate legislation, was included. In the end, this provision was, to say, a fortunate, more precisely wise recognition, if one can say so on the part of the government. However, not only did we object to this in the law, but also that, with a government decision, so to speak, a Bianko mandate, there would otherwise be an unlimited extension in the future of the range of those where, at the request of the director-general of the services, the staff of national security services would have to be employed in cover positions. As my fellow Member has pointed out before me, such a blank mandate cannot in any way be supported by us. What we can see at the trial of the previous law is, unfortunately, an increase in the level of over-service here too, and the government's plans show in any way that this is the case, respecting the legal framework in this case. But it's still going to maximize the maximum hours of over-service and standby. The over-service can accordingly reach 416 hours. The maximum monthly period of standby would be raised by the bill from 168 hours to 260 hours, astoundingly. I don't think you can agree with that either. I would like to point out that at least here the legal framework is respected, unlike in the case of soldiers and defense workers. Overall, in such a way, if the bill remains unchanged, this cannot be supported by us. Thank you.
u2015-11-30-368	I now give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki.
u2015-11-30-369	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am now trying not to take advantage of the time frame to be very short and not to repeat what has been said from the opposition side. Of course, in the general debate, we have expressed and expressed our position, which is fundamentally forward-looking, because it is really about correction, improving small and bigger problems, and, as a matter of fact, the income situation, if not large, will certainly improve law enforcement workers. What is problematic, however, has been explained here by my previous opposition colleagues, and this is also a problem for us, as we have already said, as is the case with others, but with the MSZP, I say, with regard to the post office or the municipalities, I do not necessarily see a problem if they are protected by national security in a particular situation or after certain acts, today we can see all over Europe what problems there are and what challenges we have to face. It's very clear from my point of view, and I'm not suggesting that there's any bad intentions on the part of the government. But there's a problem with the blank check. To pass a two-thirds pass through Parliament without knowing, by the way, whether there will be another government or if there will be another Minister of Interior who feels that he has more power than is actually given, he will use it for what. You feel that, too, if we were in the opposite position, and you were not in the government, but in the opposition, then how would you stand on such a question. I don't think there's much to explain. Let's assume there's no ulterior motive. Then why can't it be taxatically listed what institutions or organisations we're referring to? It is not as complicated to determine where and how national security risks may occur, for example, if we are at risk of terrorism or if we are facing challenges such as those that are affecting Central and Eastern Europe today, whether the energy sector or other sectors can be listed very nicely. Or it could be concluded that if and if such a situation arises, we will bring it to Parliament in the same way and not have to accept a lutri with the opposition as a whole, or at least with a two-thirds majority. [[21.50]] I think it's not too late to change that. So, in this form, that two-thirds part, I'll say it again, as far as the Bianco part of the National Security Act is concerned, it's not to be supported until it's properly described what we're really thinking. But I would like to point out once again that, unlike others, we do not have such a problem with the authorities or the post office, but I do not know if anyone other than the author or the legislator knows what else might happen, and there may be a lot to think about here from internal political battles, and after the last five years, I do not think that you have any reason to be concerned about any opposition MP, regardless of party standing, when you ask the opposition to support such a mandate. So I would ask you, or, where appropriate, Mr Secretary of State, that we talk about what we can think of here in terms of terms, or taxatically, and if we can talk about this, then I think that the next step is that in such a two-thirds draft, we can write this down calmly, and then everyone will calm down, and if there is no ulterior motive or any other vague suspicions in the background, then everyone can support this in the interests of the country and the national security. Thank you very much. [[Dóra Dúró applauds.]]
u2015-11-30-370	I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra.
u2015-11-30-371	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is, moreover, as one of my fellow Members said, that we can hold the wage increase promised; and, Honourable Parliament, we will hold the promised wage increase in 2016, in 2017, in 2018 and in 2019. I am pleased that such a very important bill has undergone, on the one hand, two rounds of five-party negotiations, preceded by and subsequently negotiated within the framework of the Defence and Police Committee and the Legislative Committee. 13 amendments were submitted to the law, one withdrawn by the author. In addition to the technical amendments, the Government has also supported a substantive amendment concerning the regulation of the establishment of an external employment relationship for the professional staff of national security services, which has been affected by several of my fellow Members in today's debate. We have taken or have taken into account these proposals and I would like to point out that in closing the general debate, when I held the summary, I replied, perhaps to the question of Mr Tamás Harangozó - [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó:]] Good afternoon. - to consider these proposals. So the concerns that were raised in the general debate will be considered, and we have therefore left the bill, the infrastructure application and content providers, as defined in the separate legislation, out of the list. This was considered justified because the legislation in force does not yet contain a definition of these concepts. In the case of electronic communications service providers and postal service providers, we have laid down the legal concept to be used in determining the scope of these services, but there was no debate in this regard, and now it seems to be regulated in an acceptable way for the opposition. As regards rules on over-service and rules on preparedness and related amendments, we believe that the proposal contains better regulation than before. Earlier, 300 hours and a total of 450 were the upper bounds of overwork, which will now be set at 416 hours. Although no comments have been made on the proposal for an amendment to the electronic signature and communication of employers' declarations of rights, I would like to point out that this is not an option contained in this bill. For both professional staff and public service officials, it is currently possible to issue employer measures in this way, as is otherwise permitted by the Labour Code for workers. This proposal introduces several guarantee rules in the law governing the employment relationship of professional staff, civil servants. For example, the rules of electronic communication are laid down at a legal level and, in the case of particularly significant declarations of rights, the employer's measure must also be signed by electronic means, but cannot be communicated electronically to the employee, but in the form of a endorsed, paper-based employer's measure. In the ethical process conducted by the Hungarian Law Enforcement Faculty, the government did not support the proposed amendment to leave the introduction of warnings, reprimands as possible legal consequences. With regard to the submitted bill, our aim is clearly to strengthen the financial and moral respect of the personnel of the law enforcement bodies and to keep them on the field, and to make this career attractive and thus strengthen Hungary's public security, the security of Hungarian people. That is why I ask the honourable Parliament to support this proposal in the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-372	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the chimney sweeping activity and on the proposed amendment of certain laws relating to fire control and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/3784. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-30-373	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 26 November 2015 the T/3784 concerning the chimney sweeping activity and the amendment of certain laws relating to the protection against fire. The Committee presented 18 amendments and a summary report summing up 18 yes, 5 no and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the motion of the Defence and Police Committee and the clarification proposal of the Legislative Committee. The amending proposal states that the 2012 XC on the chimney sweeping public service The legislator must be assisted in the settlement of public service contracts concluded under law at the time of the entry into force of the bill. The amending proposal therefore allows the parties to terminate the existing public service contracts and to maintain the scope of the public service contract by the parties and to provide the chimney sweeping public service in the contract area during the duration of the contract. The amendment thus gives the contracting authority the option to decide whether to maintain the public service contract or to switch to the service provided by the professional disaster management body, taking into account its own rights, interests and opportunities. With the introduction of the local government's option, the supply of chimney sweeping services will in several cases not be provided by the municipality, but by a public body, i.e. the municipality, voluntarily handing over the mandatory task to the disaster management organisation. In view of what has been said, the Legislative Committee proposes that the bill be made by CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. It is necessary to delete the provisions of law amending law since the Commission's amendment leaves the decision of the municipalities whether the local government will continue to provide the chimney sweeping industry by means of a contractual public service, or to terminate the public service contract, so that the public body will take over and carry out the chimney sweeping industry's tasks. I trust that, by adopting the bill before us, we will properly and reassure ourselves in order to carry out the domestic chimney sweeping task, both from the point of view of the chimney sweepers and in the interests of households. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[22.00]]
u2015-11-30-374	Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission's minority opinion is presented by two speakers within a 7-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2015-11-30-375	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, In the first semester, more than six months ago, this bill was tabled, and after causing a huge outrage, you took it off the agenda. In six months we saw no evidence of reconciliation with the profession and stakeholders, and then suddenly the proposal reappeared, as it was later revealed - the government had already decided - a good part of it was submitted by the Defence and Police Committee as its own proposal. This may be a particularly interesting phenomenon as to how the National Defence and Police Committee's own amendment could have gotten into a government meeting, which was supposed to be formulated by us and submitted by us. But there are many other interesting things about this proposal, since the point is that they want to nationalise the chimney sweep service. In addition, they intend to nationalise the existing market players simply - they have a déjà vu experience in Hungary - by destroying them with a bill, twisting this market out of their hands, and wanting to provide them with another one after the entry into force of the law. There is only one problem, for example, with regard to the traffic case: here the activity we are talking about is fundamentally affecting the safety of life and property of Hungarian people. This is about whether, if the transition does not go well, or if there are no answers to the questions that we have not been answered at any committee meeting - what will be done by experts today, what will be done by disaster management, what will be done by technical means, how can disaster management prepare for and do this without prior history, whether they will want to do this work with the public workers, and more than suspect that our amendment of this type, which would rule out this, has simply been voted out by you - until there is no answer to these questions, it is not just a political issue, but a fundamental safety issue, for carbon monoxide poisoning, regardless of party standing, everyone dies, it is not a game. And to this day, aside from the fact that they're going to force this through, no one has been able to say a straight line to these questions either from the Ministry of the Interior or from the Fidesz. After these reasons the opposition representatives, the opposition factions, made it clear that they would not support it, you drew a big one and said that, yeah, the law was not even two-thirds. It is simply astounding and cynical, and my fellow Member Balla even said that there will be a later amendment to the municipal law, where they may be able to fix it. Ladies and gentlemen, It remains a mandatory municipal task - if the two-thirds part of the law will not be brought into the vote tomorrow - the chimney sweeping service, yet you want to override it in a half law, completely unconstitutional. The problem is, you know, that in the process of implementing the law, they are destroying local or even partially privately owned companies with knowledge, equipment and experience, and then perhaps, as has been said at the committee meeting, it turns out subsequently that the proposal is unconstitutional - and then what, my fellow Members? Then what about the safety of people's wealth and life? What they're doing is completely irresponsible, and we think there's only one good solution: if this law is revoked and it's normally presented to Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-376	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-11-30-377	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Yes, that's right, the government was characterized by a total lack of constructivity during the trial of this law. Not only have they refused to discuss this issue with the opposition parties, but unfortunately we have also missed the consultations, since the negotiations have been cancelled. You have said that you have consulted the Ministry of the Interior, the disaster protection, the organisations performing the services, and the Government has also decided, in an interesting way, to submit this amendment, which was before the Defence Committee. You refused to agree with one factor: this is the workers, and this is the little people you constantly refer to, the hardworking little people, and here, where appropriate, the small people working on the chimney. They refused to sit down with them, they refused to agree, so there were a number of questions that, if you had the least intention of constructivity, could have been resolved. If only two conditions, two conditions of the Jobbik Hungary Movement were to be met - one is to provide workers with an adequate guarantee of how they will continue to work, how they will be taken over, under what conditions; the other would have asked the Jobbik Hungary Movement to accept our amendment proposal, in which amendment proposal we would have excluded one thing: that you are now nationalising this whole system, nationalising this market, and then playing it out for your friends, and not playing it out for the company you are likely to play for. Why do I think that? Because we say that, if these two conditions had been accepted, the fundamental part of this law could have remained, and we would have been willing to support you to change this whole system, which is currently in operation, and indeed to provide a quality, guaranteed, secure service. It was not appropriate for you, but rather took out the crucial part in order not to have to adopt a law that would have prevented you from playing it out to your friends, who will be reliable to you in six months' time, since it has often been said that these providers are not. So if you had a decent intention - and you didn't learn much from the past period, which has caused you to lose popularity, from the farmhouse, the tramps, the Andy Vajnák and the like - you would have accepted this amendment, which was nothing more than to prevent this market from being played out later. You didn't accept it, so it's likely that you'll do it. Now it is nationalized, it will not be able to operate normally, because there are no appropriate conditions, as has been said, neither the personal conditions nor the physical assets are available to enable disaster control to operate this whole system without any transition, so you will find out that it is still not working, and will appear on the Mészáros Lőrinc Clone or Andy Vajna Clone, who is currently travelling in chimney sweeps. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And they're gonna play this market for him. Unfortunately, this is our belief, and unfortunately, we are also convinced that this will not be used for people living in Hungary. [[The president's ringing again.]] because you really need to ensure a serious protection of life and property, and you are willing to play with people's lives just because the business will always be a business for you. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2015-11-30-378	I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to comment right now. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In this context, I give the floor first to Mr István Németh Szilárd.
u2015-11-30-379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The main objective of the bill before us is to maintain the long-term and undisturbed security of life and property. If we look at the creation of this bill, why we had to open it a few months ago and then withdraw it and then bring it back to Parliament, then we should not think about it in these few months, but we should go back to practically 1 July 2012: this was an extension of the reduction. When Parliament and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction and the government decided to extend the reduction to not only the supply of energy, not only electricity, gas and district heating, but also other public services, including chimney sweeps, then, let's say, we have reached a very difficult solution formula, and if you recall, this area was one of the loudest and most controversial, because before Parliament, in view of some interests, made decisions that hit Hungarian people very hard. Among other things, Parliament's law was based on the decision that, in the country, the work of solid fire chimneys, which are the most socially disadvantaged, was raised from one to two a year and had to be paid by the people. [[22.10]] And we've seen a lot of other problems. And we have found that, while we are talking about a reduction in overhead costs, while, in fact, it is not uniform at every point in the country, in a very different way, even four or five times the multiplying difference, people have been sabotaged by paying chimney sweep fees. There was an area in the country where the 2 thousand forints prize suddenly jumped to 6-7-8 thousand forints. And that was when we had to choose a solution that, among other things, led to a 44 percent decrease for people in Budapest, and we maxed the 4,000 HUF hourly rate in 2,000 HUF. And then the time came soon, when people from chimney sweeping companies, companies, local authorities also came to the government, looking for Members of Parliament to do something with this thing, because the usual nice, comfortable, mandatory public service, which means a very strong secure market, no longer works the way it used to. And that's what caused the problem. And negotiations have been going on for a very long time. Do not look at the negotiations at the stage of this law, but at this two-and-a-half-year constellation! I have also been negotiating, the government and several of my fellow Members with the organisations of chimney sweepers, chimney sweepers, municipal representatives, mayors, even I was mayor at the time, and also a member of the Budapest Assembly. So we have conducted these negotiations, and we have not come from one to the other, but we should have come from one to the other, in order to achieve the goals that this bill otherwise sets out, and it intends to keep in its letter. And once again, its main objective is to maintain long-term and undisturbed security of life and wealth. I think it's way ahead of everything. But there is a second goal, and this is the maintenance of the reduction of the rent. In fact, the extension of the reduction in the overhead costs, as it was apparent that in this area the reduction in household rents could reach up to a hundred per cent. And that's what this law ensures, that when this law comes into force, the public gets the chimney sweep for free. I think that this is a very important aspect. In addition, it ensures that municipalities do not face the possibility that the law provides them overnight, but, if they decide to maintain their obligations and public service obligations laid down in the municipal law, as long as the public service agreement is concerned, then the municipalities can decide to do so. However, the market is becoming multi-player, and I think that this can also create a certain competitive position, because private companies will remain on the market, local government companies can remain and, of course, will enter, as we consider it a state obligation to maintain the security of life and property and make it free for the population, so obviously a public body must enter, and this is disaster protection. And I think that when the market becomes multi-player, there can be a certain competitive position, and I think that everyone will find their place in this market, then we need to think less about what will happen to people working hard on the chimney; I think that everyone will have the opportunity to find a place to work and do the work they have done so far, and for the same remuneration that they have received so far. With regard to the above, I would like to draw attention to one more thing. I think we will benefit if we look at the interests of the vast majority of people, and, as you said here, Secretary of State for Defence, we are not playing a trade union here in Parliament. So it is not our job to take over the role of trade unions or even professional organisations, but to settle in a reassuring manner for the purposes that I have said several times before, the situation of this market, this mandatory public service. And I would also like to draw attention to one more thing: both disaster management, private companies, municipalities and municipal companies, that this mandatory public service will operate very unorganized without providing customer service, without the cooperation of stakeholders, without consumer cooperation, without consumer-friendly measures and the development of conscious consumer behaviour. In any case, it has already been unorganized, so here is the opportunity to move forward in this area as well. In view of the above and in order to achieve the objectives, I ask you to support this bill, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction will vote tomorrow. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-380	It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2015-11-30-381	Thank you very much. As I said at the committee meeting and in the previous debate, the chimney sweeps will no longer be good for Fidesz-KDNP, at least it will be unnecessary to hold their buttons, because I am not sure that the chimney sweep workers, entrepreneurs and the people who deal with this area will have a good heart to think about Fidesz-KDNP. It was really the feeling of everyone at the committee meeting, or anyone who only looked at it and listened to it or looked at it in the minutes, that they considered everyone to be an imbecile. We are now looking at a very populist, unthinkable bill, in which even the amendments have brought us only a crowd of indiscretions. The entry into force will be amended from 1 January to June, will it not? Everyone knows that the chimney sweep comes once in a year, and if, on your proposal, the chimney sweep comes to a resident at the beginning of the year, then he will pay for this service, and to whom the chimney sweep will arrive in the second half of the year, he will no longer have to pay. This, I think, cannot be fair anywhere, is once again a rethink of your legislation. As Szilárd Németh said, private companies can remain, and then there will be competition. At the moment, with this amendment, 90 percent of their sector is being taken away from them, and they can only and only do public works. You know very well that these companies will not be able to make a living. What is happening at the moment is that you tell the population, which is to be supported and supported, that this service should be free, but by making this service free for the residents, they are trying - let us be honest - to ensure that the public does not realize that what is happening is that they are taking away a job from private entrepreneurs and local governments, and from the people working there at the moment, too, when we do not see what will happen to them, they are taking away a job, their businesses, their assets, their assets, the means they have done so far, they are making this job worthless. And the problem is that if you go into line like this in the sectors, there will be no family that is not involved in this issue, that you have destroyed your business, because unfortunately, that is what we need to talk about here, too. And my fellow Members have also said that they have the opportunity to continue the work, because the municipality will decide that it will continue to do this work, but there will be no money for it. Which municipality is going to decide that? Then the one in Budapest that had to add 2 billion forints a year to make this system work the way it is? So you're putting up things and arguments here that you know are not working. Their goal is to make these companies impossible and destroy them. The only question is that in the municipalities that have their own assets, the assets of them are also being devalued at the moment. And then let's look at the numbers. So far, 1850 people have done the chimney sweep in Hungary, and now for billions of forints in disaster management, they are setting up an organization to hire 1350 people. The sentence that Szilárd Németh said will no longer exist here. That means 500 people minus, so it can't be an opportunity for everyone! The other question, which we have asked a lot of times, and we have not once received an answer, is that, at the moment, the law says that, if the service provider is appointed, it will be possible to do this work with public workers. Our question is, will they be training public workers for chimney sweeps in a crash course - or what will happen? Or what you've heard once or twice about the fact that disaster control will continue to employ the same people as public workers? [[22.20]] My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, doesn't know how to look at the faces. These things aren't just misconceptions, but we've seen them a few times. Unfortunately, what we see here is disappointing, another step, when you really are interested in nothing but populism, and those Members who defend their defenceable argument system as party loyalty are being sent into this debate. Right now, you're only doing one thing, putting this whole system in disaster control, and we don't see how this is gonna go on. The chimney sweeps themselves say they do not know where they will be employed from 1 January. Therefore, two thirds of the employees of one organization have deposited their resignations because they do not know what will happen to them. Is he gonna be a law enforcement officer during disaster control? Or who's gonna hire him? Or will you be employed from June 1st or transferred to a completely different system? Their fellow Member Rubovszky tried to dampen this situation and presented proposals for amendments, just in case they noticed those words from their own ranks, and in case they noticed that it was not possible to destroy companies, people, lives and workers who had done their job normally before, but unfortunately they did not want to listen to them either. And, as my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó said, the committee meeting was indeed the highlight of everything, where we could listen to the fact that the amendment allegedly tabled by the committee had already been discussed by the government. How do we do that, fellow Members? They don't even pretend what they've done so far, that there's still some democracy and parliamentaryism in this country. There's nothing! You guys are starting to look like idiots. But this one time, my fellow Members, will strike back. Because when we get to hear that this committee amendment was discussed outside the government's agenda, sometime in the summer, probably in a coffee shop, it's really the bottom of everything. Only they're playing with people's lives. They're playing with the lives of the population and they're playing with the lives of entrepreneurs who have families, and so far they've been able to do their job normally. They destroy their business, make their jobs impossible, leave loopholes, but you know these loopholes don't work. It's not a sustainable system. And they're creating a system that I don't think you know how it's gonna work. My question, indeed, my fellow Members, is that if you press the "yes" button when voting on this bill, then where are your consciences, how will they look in the mirror? And I really can tell you that chimney sweeps will never bring you luck again. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-382	I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-11-30-383	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I listened with interest to Szilárd Németh's speech. You are right, Mr President, that you have sacrificed the safety of people's lives and property on the altar of reduction. With the reduction of the overhead, they destroyed the chimney sweeping industry. The congressman may say that the chimney sweep will be free from now on. Congressman, nothing's free! With a large hocus pocus they will effectively make chimney sweeping service free, but they will also pay the same chimney sweeping service out of people's taxes and public money, only to transfer the money from one pocket to another that would otherwise have been taken from people. So this is a hoax. There's justice in the reverse things you've outlined. Indeed, the chimney sweeping service did not work very well. But tell me, Congressman, when these things didn't work out well, when these shortcomings were, who supervised the chimney sweeping service? ! Whose job was it to stop these things from working like that? I'll tell you what, disaster control. Even then, disaster management would have had a responsibility to stop things from working the way you outlined. The congressman said that you had been negotiating with everyone. They've been negotiating here for so long, there's no one left to talk to. Of course, but tell me, tell me the one time you've sat down with the employees. When did you check with the employees? During the restructuring of the chimney sweeping industry, there has been no consultation with employees, their representative bodies, despite the fact that there is a trade union of around 40% of the workers in the sector. This trade union, which represents the small people working on the chimney, has repeatedly turned to the Ministry of Interior, the Prime Minister's Office and the Prime Minister himself to ask for support in order to ensure that, in addition to preserving the jobs of those who are still in the profession, a higher standard of service, better wage and working conditions, a higher degree of protection of the life and wealth of the population. In addition, on 8 June 2015, the trade union held a public demonstration before the Parliament, in addition to the press's interest, in which it presented a petition to the Prime Minister's Office. Furthermore, the professional representation itself supported the restructuring of the chimney sweep and offered its expertise in its implementation. Nothing happened! They weren't looking for them, they weren't invited to consult, they weren't interested in their opinions, their expertise. Therefore, on 3 November, the same trade union, which was also to be known, as it had been brought down by the press, had 322 chimney sweeps deposited its resignation, if this law had not been negotiated by the Parliament, and had the same insecurity existed, since the current situation and uncertainty had completely wiped out their tolerance, and the government had been waiting for you to present a sure vision of the future with a reassuring result. Were you looking for them? They weren't looking for them! They didn't talk to them once. However, the current bill does not mention these workers in half a sentence, nor does it guarantee that they will have long job opportunities and a secure livelihood in the new system. That's your business, of course - just don't say you've agreed. Don't lie to me about being agreed, because you have to say it's a lie. But it may also be that they have not been consulted because it was said at the committee meeting about how you imagine the fate of workers. The government commissioner who was sitting there said that some of these people are currently working in the chimney sweeping industry, but they are poor workers, and they will not be taken over. Is it possible that the poor workers who have been willing to face you will finally have normal life and wealth security in this country? Will they be the ones they won't take over? Possibly. Who would be able to carry out public tasks in the application of the new chimney sweeping body, if not qualified chimney sweeps that have been in the industry for decades and are still working there? Who would protect the public, the voters, from the silent killer, from the deadly chimney fires? How does the government imagine structural transformation without considering these workers as part of the process without basing the chimney sweep of the future on them? We therefore consider it a guarantee to both the chimney sweepers and the general public that the further employment of skilled and experienced workers currently employed in the chimney sweeping industry and the use of the future chimney sweeping body as an employer should also be recorded at legal level. But it doesn't. Article 4 of the proposal is replaced by the following: The detailed justification for Article 4 of the Act states that the paragraph contains the rules on the employment of professional workers involved in the supply of chimney sweeping activities. Unfortunately, this paragraph does not mention professional workers, masters or administrators, but only provides that a natural person who has no criminal record can take part in the provision of the activity and is not subject to the prohibition of employment which is not possible in the field. It is possible that what others have already outlined is that you will want to provide this activity with public workers, fast-trained professionals. Will this increase the security of life and wealth? Is this the new method you're trying to outline here? If so, this is not good. Then my fellow Member says how good it will be for the market to be multi-player. If the market becomes multi-player, will it increase security? Will this increase security? In addition, the bill 8. § (1) empowers the government to define the future chimney sweeping body in a regulation, and paragraph 2 empowers the Minister of Administration to regulate the detailed rules of chimney sweeping tasks in a regulation, such as the frequency of inspections, the forms to be used, the training and the rest. [[22.30]] However, Article 9 shall apply. Paragraph (2) of the above paragraph would enter into force from 1 July 2016. If the entry into force of the law, which is the 15th day after the publication and the 1st July 2016, is not authorised by the Government or the Ministry to produce the legislation, on the one hand, other provisions of the law, such as Article 10. § 2), paragraphs 13 and 15 are also contradicted, and on the other hand, the chimney sweeping industry should start providing the actual public service, there is no government or BM regulation laying down its rules or designating the body itself. Therefore, the bill is 9. Paragraph 8 (2) should be deleted. A provision for entry into force of Article 5 of the Treaty. Suggested, reasonable, normal, clear - not accepted. Why would they accept it? - that's their constructivity. Overall, as we could have expected from Fidesz, the solution has been uneven, they are moving responsibility to the municipalities, and they will want to continue to operate this whole thing. By the way, it must be noted that with a TAB modification, we have tried to prevent them from being able to organise this whole activity later, and you have refused to support this amendment. And for us, there was no guarantee that Congressman Balla had said that he would promise that he wouldn't be outsourced. Well, I don't believe his word, if he says he's gonna promise, then that's what's gonna happen from here on out. In view of this, I believe that the text of the law is aimed at the safety of life and property of the Hungarian population, and it would be a step forward to make public service a public service, but, in the absence of these amendments and guarantees, the Jobbik Hungary Movement, which has always considered the interests of workers and the interests of life and property security the most important, cannot support the adoption of the bill. With goodwill, we can only take a stand on this issue. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2015-11-30-384	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] There are no candidates, so the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, the author.
u2015-11-30-385	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill has been negotiated for a long time, and during this period several amendments have been made to the bill, so these proposals have also contributed to the clarification of the norm. The proposal reflects the intention, in its revised form, to ensure that the annual recurring part of the chimney sweeping service, periodic inspections and chimney cleaning are free of charge for the population. With this rule, the burden of citizens is again reduced and the public service that has been done so far for consideration is made available to the public free of charge. As a result of the Commission's proposal to amend the legislation governing the chimney sweeping service within a new framework, it provides for the possibility for the municipalities responsible for the public service to decide whether or not to continue to provide chimney sweeping services in their administrative territory on the basis of their existing public service contract. According to the new legislation, therefore, the disaster management body will only provide chimney sweeping services to the public unless the municipality concerned otherwise undertakes to provide the public service. Of course, chimney sweeping controls and cleaning in linework also become free of charge in the retail sector in the case of activities carried out by the municipal public service provider. Moreover, the new regulation will burden real estate owners less often than currently with chimney sweeps and chimney checks. The proposal puts the chimney sweeping service on a new, more secure basis than at present, by gradually completing the work of a professional disaster protection body throughout the country in the retail sector on the basis of uniform regulators and uniform practices. With this, regional differences in quality of service and charges, which have been shown for many years, will soon be eliminated in some places. The proposal also eliminates the supply disruptions of the chimney sweeping public service in several counties, when, in the absence of a contractual public service, the public service provider had to be found with a temporary designation. The chimney sweeping market outside the retail sector remains for private companies which can provide services for properties owned or used by economic entities. Dear House, Mr President, In addition to the property-owner citizens, the new legislation also favours chimney sweeping skilled workers, whose experience has increased in demand since the coming years. In the new service system, the professional disaster management body will have an employment demand for skilled workers with practical experience in both chimney sweeping private enterprises and municipal service providers. In addition to chimney sweeping skilled workers, the professional disaster protection body also requires the work of the service personnel required for the customer service and other administrative work in the chimney sweeping industry. With the entry into force of the proposal, the responsibility of the State will also increase, since in municipalities where there is no private market chimney sweeping service, the professional disaster protection body will also carry out chimney checks in the public sector if the municipality does not undertake this. With public involvement, chimney checks will be carried out on the basis of uniform practices, more organised than so far, by skilled workers employed by a professional disaster management body. It should be stressed that this bill sets only the framework for the new system of chimney sweeping activities, and the detailed rules will be laid down in the Government and Ministerial Regulation. Thus, the rules on the frequency of inspections and the better organisation of the new chimney sweeping line work will also be laid down in a ministerial decree to be issued under the mandate of the new law. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you all who participated in the debate on the bill, thank you for your work. I ask you to contribute with your votes to the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-386	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I declare that the Government initiated the procedure of the Legislative Committee in the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. The Commission's report will therefore not be debated at this meeting in order to discuss a proposal to amend law. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain energy laws and the discussion of the summary amendment are coming up. The government referral is T/7398. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. In this context, I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-30-387	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 27 November 2015 shall be subject to Rule 46 of the Rules of the House. T/7398 on the amendment of certain energy laws. The Committee presented 24 amendments and a summary report summarizing yes, 1 sex and 9 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, a proposal for a 14-point amendment by the Committee on Economic Affairs and, on the other hand, a proposal by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, which provides clarification of the language and codification of the proposed bill and of the committee amendment. Ladies and Gentlemen, Among the substantive parts of the amending proposal, it provides for the amendment of the Mining Act. Article 43 of the Act cited. § 9/c is necessary due to the restructuring of the regional administration system, on the basis of which the full supervisory fee paid by the mining contractor or the licensee... - during the year, after the inspection of the Hungarian Mining and Geological Office, will refund the amount of administrative service fees paid in the previous year. [[22.40]] With this amendment, the former customer-friendly provision can be retained, and public bureaucracy can also be simplified. The other amendment aims to clarify and clarify the scope of those subject to an energy audit. The purpose of the arrangement for cooperation between the owner and the tenant is to ensure that the ownership involvement necessary for carrying out the energy audit is ensured in the event of a tenant's obligation and to guarantee mutual cooperation between the parties in the event of a joint and several obligation. The reason for the addition is that it is necessary to require regular reporting in the interests of the national economy, since the fulfilment of the audit obligation for the large group of companies subject to energy audits every four years and the fact that the ISO 50001 certificate exists does not provide sufficient information on energy efficiency to the Office or the Government. Although the bill before us, which contains largely technical amendments, is only broadly understood by the Hungarian state Paks II. The debate in front of the Legislative Committee, despite the debate that had already taken place, was essentially about this. Because of the involvement, my fellow opposition Members are certainly right in that the bill before us also improves security of supply, increases the security of the electricity system, and, last but not least, reduces our country's energy dependency. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-388	To present the minority opinion in the committee, I give the floor to Mr Tóth Bertalan.
u2015-11-30-389	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member Vejkey mentioned, there was indeed a wandering debate in the legislative committee during the negotiation of the bill. This is due, on the one hand, to the liberalism of President Gergely Gulyás, as he said, to his liberal style of sitting and to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, who was at our disposal and answered many, many questions. But I would like to say and inform the Honourable Parliament that it is not just Paks II. it has been mentioned, and I would also like to point out that only a part of the opposition representatives made statements to which my fellow Member Vejkey referred. This did not concern representatives of the Socialist Party. Well, in this debate, it has been mentioned that despite the decline in energy prices in international markets, the benefits of this have not been achieved by consumers in Hungary. Therefore, there will be no further decrease in energy prices. Although Secretary-General Fó Nagy explained how the oil price affected domestic gas prices, he did not mention that European stock prices have decreased significantly in recent years, nor did he mention that the price of gas coming from Russia is 40 percent lower, nor did he mention that one of his fellow State Secretary, although Lászlón Németh's fellow State Secretary in another ministry, acknowledged that a certain amount of money was accumulated in a public company, but this money does not reach Hungarian consumers, so there will be no further price reduction. Unfortunately, we also learned that the Hungarian government does not support investments for residential energy with non-refundable support. Thus, the HUF 88 billion that is supposed to be available in the operational programme does not reach the Hungarian households, so it will not be possible to renovate family houses, condominiums or panel buildings as non-refundable grants, but it has launched a HUF 100 billion loan programme; which we cannot accept and support at all, because here again, households who will be able to repay this loan will benefit from the credit programme. So, again, they help better-mode households and families who can take credit and pay it back, but the most needy, where the biggest problem is the payment of energy costs, they cannot receive such support. He also did not accept our argument that the cheapest energy is energy that has not been consumed, and that is why we should and should support the building energy investments, renovations, insulation, window replacement and the renovation of mechanical engineering. And as you mentioned, my fellow Member, the investment in Paks was also mentioned. Here we have heard a very interesting explanation from the Secretary of State, which relates to national sovereignty and vulnerability. He claimed that by building the new nuclear power plant blocks in Paks, Hungary's vulnerability and energy independence will be reduced, but he forgot about the HUF 3000 billion loan amount, which will be the price that Hungary will take from Russia. And here we have a double interpretation. So while, let's say, foreign indebtedness has been perceived as an attack on sovereignty by György Matolcsy or the Prime Minister, the Russian loan of HUF 3000 billion will not cause you such a sovereignty problem. We have also heard that because of the fact that this investment receives this amount of support from the government, the Hungarian energy supply still does not switch to the decentralised system, but remains the central energy supply and energy supply. And we also did not get an answer at the committee meeting as to why it is good that the government spent and wants to spend HUF 2400 billion on the purchase of multinational companies or the purchase of assets owned by multinational companies, because we know that the energy market is a highly regulated market, there is an energy agency, laws, regulations, and even the energy agency can issue a regulation, so it is a regulated market. He started buying completely unnecessary businesses, and the government wants to do it. We can't help but think that the Fidesz government is now paying for the reduction of our money and taxpayers' money for multinational money, because it has spent hundreds of millions of forints on the purchase of the E.ON gas reservoirs, MOL's stock purchase, the purchase of the Main Gas, and we have now seen a government proposal to buy companies that own infrastructure for a thousand billion more. So you want to spend 2,400 billion forints on this. Now, if we were to do a quick calculation of how many family houses, condos or panel apartments could be renovated from this, this would be close to the one million that could be solved, and that would reduce the population's energy expenditure by 30-40 percent. But this discussion showed that it was in the interest of the Hungarian government to consume as much energy as possible, since public utility companies are now owned, so the revenue will be good; while the multinationals were enriched, it was not good, now that you will collect the money, only the Hungarian people will pay now. Well, we're not gonna be able to support that. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-390	I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara.
u2015-11-30-391	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I just want to be very brief. I would like to get ahead of the type of debate that I was at the committee meeting, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, which, by the way, was an interesting topic, but did not belong to the amendment, and did not belong to this proposal. I would like to remind you that, on the one hand, this proposal seeks to clarify the norm regarding the amendment of the Mining Act in the context of the amendment of the energy legislation, and on the other hand, such clarification in relation to the Nuclear Power Act, clarification of a legal nature, amendments to the law on electricity are primarily aimed at achieving the objectives of harmonisation. [[22.50]] Moreover, the law on electricity and gas supply contains proposals for language location and internal coherence of the legislation. The purpose of the amendment to the Energy Efficiency Act is to ensure a uniform interpretation of energy audit regulations. I thought that I was going to say this briefly, and I refer to the fact that, indeed, in the Legislative Committee, my fellow Members approached Hungary's present and future in many ways, in many ways, but the amendments contain proposals of this kind which I have said. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-392	Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-11-30-393	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was also involved in the general debate of this law, and I also said my position. I would also like to emphasise this in the detailed debate, since there has been no amendment in the text of the law. Therefore, I would like to point out to Mr Secretary of State that we regard as a serious problem on one side what my colleague Bertalan Tóth has already said about the fact that world market developments are not reflected in Hungarian prices, neither in electricity nor in gas prices. This is important to us, and perhaps the Secretary of State will also understand that the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party has repeatedly stressed this because you have built your entire campaign to be the real Rezhi fighters and to reduce the overhead in a sustainable, fair way. We debated this, and I believe that this was the justification for Bertalan Tóth's efforts to make this reduction truly sustainable and fair. That's one of them. Secondly, what is also important is that we do not see any incentive, not only financial incentives, but also basically legal incentives in terms of how renewable energy sources could be better developed in Hungary, how to make this type of investment a priority. With regard to Paks, I do not want to mention this, but in particular we argued that there was no impact study on the basis of which a future energy mix of 30-50 years could have been defined, which would have been about the partial or full replacement of nuclear energy, and to which renewable energy sources would have given a kind of opportunity. These impact assessments may have shown that it is still not sufficiently economical or not sufficiently secure in terms of supply, but we do not know. That is why we would have liked to see the legislation on renewable energy sources and the legislative environment encourage investment in this sector a little more. This could be a lot of other things from biomass, such as wind energy - if I remember correctly, this tender may have been stopped by the government in 2010 - or any other renewable energy source that can trigger conventional energy sources in a given event. This is not only important for energy efficiency or energy security, but we believe that any investment, any incentive that invests in green energy - in many cases investment in the green economy - is, in my view, a serious potential for Hungary, both in terms of economic growth, industrial development and job creation. So for our part, we would have liked to see some forward-looking initiative in this, even if we knew and understood that these are far more complex and difficult start-up industries, and, of course, this low oil price is not in favour. However, if we are thinking in the long term, it might be worth thinking about at least in terms of legal incentives. Allow me, Minister of State, to mention the HUF 1000 billion that the Hungarian government intends to spend on the purchase of various energy companies from the MFB framework, i.e. from a credit line, I think it would also be a better place for industrial development, which will not only result in the Hungarian State owning several such companies, but also, if appropriate, could give impetus to various Hungarian companies, startups or even a way to stimulate exciting research. For these reasons, I also supported and agreed with the political position that my fellow Member, Mr Tóth, also presented, and that, in this way, we do not consider this draft law to be eligible. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-30-394	I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara.
u2015-11-30-395	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Once this debate has been brief, I will be brief myself. I would like to say two things in essence, in addition to, of course, to indicate that the summarised amendment is in line with the government's position, and I urge you to support this proposal and the bill as a whole. So I would like to say two things, which is important, because it was also said at a committee meeting, and perhaps my fellow Member Kucsák has referred to the fact that the possibility of energy modernisation and investment is still present. The Ministry of National Development, so the government will soon announce the results of the tender for the 60 housing condominiums, such as the panel houses. I would like to reassure my fellow Members that, of course, it was also possible to apply for panel houses. The results of these will be made public. I hope that in many parts of the country, or, if I may say it a little more strongly, it will provide a good opportunity for many thousands of people in the future, with government support. And the only way I'm gonna be able to sum up is by saying people's opinions. Now, you're gonna have to pay less than your government fees. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-30-396	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the protection of consumers in the course of the sale of goods linked to the presentation of goods and the discussion of the summary amendment are now in order. The T/5486 submitted by Zsolt Semjén and his fellow Members. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-30-397	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/5486 on 26 November 2015. a bill amending certain laws required for the protection of the consumer in the course of the sale of goods linked to the presentation of goods and, in this context, Article 46 of the Rules of the House. It adopted an amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour, with 7 abstentions, without voting against. The amended amendment proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs is included in the amended proposal and the Commission's legislative proposal on the basis of reference No 1 can be found in the background. The aim of the bill is to strengthen the rules on the supply of goods linked to the presentation of goods. The proposal states that companies engaged in such activities are obliged to maintain customer service. The proposal includes customer service rules and their precise description. Taking a closer look at these standards, we can conclude that the proposal is a difficult task for people, companies, who want to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the presentation of goods. [[23.00]] Another important objective is to prohibit companies organising product presentations from delivering consumer credit. With this, we are confidently excluding the range of businesses, honest businesses, fair companies, but in fact unfair entrepreneurs and businesses who abuse display goods. We can safely rule out, but we can't declare any further loopholes, abuses, in the course of the presentation of goods under the new provisions. Therefore, the government is preparing to review the operation of the new framework after the entry into force of the proposal after a certain period of time, so that impact assessments will be carried out and, if necessary, additional measures will be taken to close these gaps which may not yet be visible and to eliminate the system of unfair display of goods. I therefore thank my fellow Members for their attention and ask for their support in voting. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-30-398	I will ask Congressman Imre Vejkey if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2015-11-30-399	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is to prevent abuse in the sales of goods linked to the presentation of goods. The above prevention is necessary because we can hear countless examples from our immediate environment, from the press of hundreds of thousands of forints of healing wonder lamps, bedding sets, pulsed magnetic devices. These products are usually sold to consumers who are vulnerable to age, credulity and health, thus easily misleading, often using unfair commercial practices. KDNP therefore launched a consultation to examine the issue in 2015. There's been a lot of complaints and information on the phone in letters, e-mails, which has confirmed the news from what we've heard so far. During the investigation of the problem, we also consulted the heads of the relevant public bodies, including the National Consumer Protection Authority and the head of the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority. The President of the Consumer Protection Authority has confirmed our view that, in the course of sales at the display of goods, infringements have increased along with unfair commercial practices, such as, unfortunately, the development of a trick of prompt decision-making has been very extensive in such a way that they often create an atmosphere for all of this that refusal to buy can be unpleasant or simply humiliating. Another problem is, on the one hand, that customers are often unable to get a good understanding of the fine print contractual parts, which are eventually also signed. On the other hand, although the right of withdrawal is theoretically guaranteed by the law to the buyer, it is often not feasible in practice, because individual traders make the right to withdraw from the contract impossible by simply not being available. Therefore, in the view of Christian democrats, when selling goods linked to the display of goods, consumers need increased protection due to the specific nature of the transaction. The bill therefore aims, on the one hand, to ensure that companies selling the product cannot disappear, that consumers can reach them even after the purchase, and that they are able to exercise their legal right of withdrawal. On the other hand, it is prohibited to advertise the sale of goods linked to a display by offering gifts or by giving gifts. Third, the aim is to prohibit the provision of financial services in the supply of goods linked to the presentation of goods. Mr President, Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say for now. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-30-400	I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. Kara Ákos? [[Ákos Kara: Me, at the end.]] At the end. All right, thank you. The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches by its representatives are taking place within the time-frame on which it is to be put on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő.
u2015-11-30-401	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The things that my fellow Members have said, I would not give up. I think that I almost even take residence as a polite gender because of the opposition, so I think that, in addition to the government side, in addition to the parliamentary majority, other parties can support this amendment. I would rather say what the legislative committee proposes to amend. Point 1 complements the Trade Act, which is necessary in order to ensure the most extensive protection of consumers. This can prevent the trader from publishing the product as two separate events, such as one morning and one afternoon, thus avoiding the inclusion of such a form of sale under the term, and the associated strict obligations. According to point 2, customer service must also be provided at the head office of the place where the goods were sold together with the display of goods and at the place where the goods were sold. This is an important amendment. The protection of the interests of consumers and the availability of customer service offices will also be facilitated by the operation of the customer service office at the county seat in which the consumer joined the organised travel and event. The modification shall also specify the dates on which the customer service must be available on the working day. On the basis of this amendment, the obligation to make pre-voice calls to telephone customer services is also imposed within five minutes. At product presentations organised away from home, accompanied by travel, consumers indicate that there is an atmosphere of uncertainty about getting home without buying. For this reason, it is necessary to explicitly require the trader circle to ensure that the buyer candidates are returned to their place of departure on the same terms, whether or not they are buying. Point 3 is CLXIV of 2005 on trade. It complements the amendment of the Act with the prior notification clause for compliance with Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market. Point 4 is a codification clarification. Point 5 also clarifies the codification nature and the amending proposal clarifies the scope of financial services which are subject to restrictions in the supply of goods and makes it clear that the use of cash substitute payment instruments, including in particular credit cards and festival cards, is not affected by the bill. According to point 6, in close context with the amendment proposed under point 3, it is necessary to amend the entry into force of the bill in such a way that the pre-notified provisions and the pre-notification clause enter into force at the same time. According to point 7, the 2005 CLXIV on trade. A prior notification clause for compliance with Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market should also be amended. Dear House, I hope that this proposal, along with the amendments, will help to stop misleading, exploitative commercial practices for the elderly and to protect decently aged people, our own parents and grandparents. If you agree with this aim, please support the Commission report, the summary amendment proposal and the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[23.10]]
u2015-11-30-402	I now give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-11-30-403	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Hungarian Socialist Party Group will support the bill for the final vote. We've listened to all the arguments, and I'm not going to repeat that. I would like to highlight one thing, which is why I think it is justified that such legislation should be put in place. In my practice as a lawyer, even before I was a Member, I met a lot of cases and cases like this, and my experience was that today's legal system offers many, many opportunities for protection. So what we have opposed to various of these contracts, we have generally succeeded there, because there is the legal institution of outstanding inadequacy, there is the prohibition of invalid contractual clauses that can be challenged; the deception, which has stopped in many cases, and the warranty is also a legal institution that has helped to come out of such a contract, since not only businesses are unfair, but these contractual terms in general. However, experience has been that very old people, pensioners, have entered into such contracts and, as a voluntary follower, have not turned to legal aid, have not tried to terminate or terminate these contracts. On the one hand, because they thought that once I agreed and gave them my word, this must be done, even though these products were often of inadequate quality and not what they were paid for. I therefore believe that the legislation presented by my fellow Member Vejkey is necessary, and I hope that we can vote on this law with another faction, but tomorrow's day. However, we did not vote for the amendments in the Legislative Committee, because, as my fellow Member Vécsey said, although he said that loopholes had to be closed, we felt that we had to open loopholes, because the original proposal also regulated situations of life that would not have to be applied; here we heard that in the case of festival cards, credit cards. There it was indeed said from the Secretary of State that there would be an ex-post impact assessment. And we believe that we need a preliminary impact assessment. If there is such a proposal submitted by an individual representative or several Members, then the Ministry should carry out a preliminary impact assessment, not follow up on the events. Therefore, we have not supported the amendments, but we will support the legislation itself in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-404	I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2015-11-30-405	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, at the display of goods, there are such low-quality products on top of unsuspecting people that I am jokingly speaking to a fellow Member about the fact that I bought a hair-growing miracle drug there myself, it seems to be a success, but of course this is just a joke. The Jobbiks were trained, since our local representative, Mr Miklós Szanyó, and our activist Lajos Dézsi there, prevented a similar display of goods on several occasions by following only the way of office, informed the authorities. And it is no coincidence at all that the so-called organizers and managers panicked after any such announcement, where appropriate, suspended the events, because it is quite clear that what they are doing here goes against all kinds of written and unwritten rights and is unsustainable. At the same time, Jobbik has tabled an amendment to extend this protection in time and in time. For the time being, it is unclear why this reception is delayed, why at all, since it is logical that if I am at a display of goods, it should not only be concluded that they cannot conclude a non-benefit agreement with me on the spot, and that they cannot have me sign a document that contributes to my distribution, with the participation of a bank, if any, but also that the same bank is not able to sell questionable financial services in connection with the same transaction, for example, the next day, because it is no longer considered to be a sale of goods linked with the display of goods if, where appropriate, in a second round, in another location, say, in another unit, the same contract is signed. So the point is that it should not be possible to have the display of goods on Wednesday, and the next day, not in the framework of the show, but they can buy the product that is certainly not necessary, or at least at a reasonable price, but in this way in no way. So if we start from Wednesday's example, then on Thursday, the same financial firm cannot provide the same fraudulent financial service. That is why the temporal and spatial scope should be extended. For this reason, we look forward to not only the closing, but also to a recent State Secretary's reaction in terms of what prevents the temporal and spatial extension of this protection, which would be of fundamental interest to all participants in this transaction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-30-406	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-11-30-407	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think this seems like a small amendment, but we are talking about a proposal with a very serious social impact. I myself have previously, at a certain time in my life, been monitoring consumer protection as a secretary of state, so I have a great deal of empathy for this amendment or for this tightening up, because according to daily practice, there have been many fraudulent behaviours and frauds that have certainly affected groups of consumers at high risk, as they say. This includes the elderly, the retired. When we talk about this proposal for the sale of goods linked to the presentation of goods, it must be true that a lot of people in Hungary also have the word scam, scam and deception, and we see that this is an industrial abuse by certain companies. The interesting thing about all of this - the interesting thing to understand between cat nails, of course - is that, while my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth rightly said, there are a number of transactions, contracts that can be challenged and won by lawyers, but this is not typical of this, since the value of which is usually the value or the way it is purchased does not allow, they do not feel that they would turn to a lawyer on such a specific question because of the product, because it seems too complicated, expensive, and I would not consider obstacles. So I say that there is and must be a role to be played by the legislator and then by the executive authority in the area of consumer protection, because such an amendment, tightening up, certainly in many cases, may even protect the consumer from the situation of voluntarily buying such products. Of course, volunteering can only be interpreted in a very theoretical way. In daily practice, the various advertisements, which are also trying to tighten up the current rule, confer on the product or service a product or service which is not real, which makes it difficult for an older person with less information to understand or evaluate the information sufficiently to understand that this type of unfair market behaviour should be avoided by him. In English: noticeably, apparently, in many cases these older people are abused by their credulity, good intentions, integrity, and at these product presentations they produce a psychological environment that is also a form of pressure for the participants. And formally, once again, it is possible to say that the purchase is voluntary, but it is not actually voluntary, because an aggressive seller - who has been trained to do so - meets the customer. [[23.20]] In many cases, not only is the fear that, say, in a bus trip, they may not even bring home the pensioner, there have been numerous examples of this, according to the reports, but simply the psychological environment in such a situation that many people feel that it would really be a shame if they did not buy or repay the help they received from the sellers there, and indeed, as many people have referred to, this can lead to serious financial problems, as these older people spend more than they can. The other is that there is no quality assurance, no complaints, these companies disappear after the sale. Therefore, neither the service nor the product can be turned to, and, of course, from this point forward, there is no guarantee of any kind to the consumer. I'd think the impact assessments were good. Even in the past four years, I am satisfied with the impact studies, but it would have been worth consulting, or should have been, the Ministry, with those NGOs who have raised this issue a lot in the past four years, and they have had numerous legislative amendments, clarifications, proposals that could certainly have made this legislative amendment even more accurate or even more acute. So I would urge the Secretary of State and the Government not only to carry out impact assessments, but also to take into account that there are already civil society organisations and stakeholder organisations that have this information, and concrete proposals, and that might make this legislation even better. I hope that we will meet relatively soon, in six months' time with this legislation, perhaps in an even more precise form, so I thank the KDNP in any way for submitting this proposal. I think it's a good proposal and we support it. Thank you.
u2015-11-30-408	I give the floor once again to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2015-11-30-409	Mr President, Dear House, Although we have traditionally dealt with one of the most correct State Secretarys in terms of debates, as far as his answers and correctness are concerned, the answer we were looking forward to is still missing. But let's open up more fragments, open up more petals from the truth, because here in terms of customer service, the main achievement is not that this will greatly reduce the number of abuses; let's be honest, it will not. It improves accessibility and accountability for these companies. We feel that with one of the modifications, the government will open a door, to be more precise: if you leave it this way, which is simply untenable, and here we are thinking about festivals, festival cards. By the way, we understand the reason why, but they would take the festival cards out of this circle. We also see that lobbying interests in this area could be justified, or at least partly justified. What will they do if, in connection with their Sunday closure, certain shops have declared themselves markets in order to avoid some form of regulation and, let's say, keep it open even when others do not. What are you going to do - by the way, my fellow Member György Szilágyi whispered a much better example in my ear than I did a few minutes ago - if, say, gangs and gangs conning older people with quilts are simply going to make their activities a duvet festival? So they take advantage of the regulatory gap that a festival is allowed without further ado, and that is not subject to the prohibition of product presentations, so they will be starting with a duvet, say, with eight types of buyable duvets, and, where appropriate, they can avoid your otherwise perfectly normal intention to prevent such an event from ending, otherwise such an event from taking place. Once again, if the shops were able to declare themselves to the market, and with a very large phase delay, only the legislator was able to eliminate this abuse-likeness, then there was a fear here that perhaps a little more precise codification could also disperse the danger that the representatives of lobbying interests could indeed suffer here, and that it could also be resolved that no company holding a display of goods would be caught up in similar tricks. Overall, I have some scepticism about the proportion of this market that makes up decent businesses, which actually sell useful, sensible products to the market, not to say that they are salting on Hungarian people, but to sell to Hungarian people. So I would sleep very quietly myself if this whole form of business wasn't in this form, or at least it wouldn't work. We understand your fear of bans, but we would like to draw attention to the fact that by opening similar gates, the spirit can come out of that particular bottle at some point. So we're dealing with very tricky, very sophisticated companies. It is also clear that you have made a similar mistake. At a time when, not on the ground of the total ban for consumer groups, but only for the future, similar organisation was prohibited, we understood and tolerated that there was a spinning effect throughout the system. They didn't want to put people already in the system in an impossible position. But we also said that, since there was no such high budgetary resources, the situation of the victims of consumer groups could have been resolved with the involvement of budgetary resources, where appropriate, and, yes, we should have tried to beat as much of this account on the companies that committed the crime. In this case, too, we say that it is pointless to leave such loopholes open, since absolutely everything would be given in terms of settlement. Here is an almost unprecedented parliamentary majority, here is an intention in a broadly one direction, where the representative of the MSZP congratulates KDNP on its excellent presentation. By the way, Jobbik also supports the intention behind this. So this is a moment of grace when this issue could be resolved in its entirety and in its entirety. Therefore, it would also be close to us to sanctioning the companies involved in the past a little bit more seriously, because it is merely that in the future, children, in this form, this is not a strong enough message for the market, as we can bring up countless industries where similar forms of abuse or spookily similar forms of abuse are in place. Therefore, and overall, our clear need to avoid similar loopholes in this system is pointless. And if you want some clarification about festivals and festival cards, this can be easily carried through with much more careful legislation, with a slightly stricter examination of the paragraphs. In this way, we can spare Hungarian consumers the possibility of being cheated at duvet festivals in the future, or these crooks and public criminals using means that they should simply not meet in a fair legal system, should not have such tools in their hands. So here's your chance to take advantage of this moment of mercy. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-30-410	I don't see any other candidates, so I'm gonna ask Mr. Secretary of State if he wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Secretary Ákos Kara has the floor.
u2015-11-30-411	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I should meet two criteria. One of them is I'm supposed to be short around 12:30. The second criterion, which I should meet, is that I should answer all the questions, because the debate of this bill has actually been accompanied, in fact, by what has been said here on the pro-government and opposition side, that there has been consensus on the intention. There has indeed been agreement on tightening up, and now there may have been one of the exceptional conditions in Parliament, even in terms of methods. The first thing I would like to say is that, overall, we are talking about significant tightening up. The proposal itself contained a significant tightening up, as the previous Member pointed out, and the amendment itself, which came from the chapter of the Economic Commission and the Legislative Committee, has made it even more stringent. I would also like to confirm that right now, but if you look at, say, the media appearances or surfaces of the last few months, when, on the part of the Ministry of National Development, either colleagues or I said the position, we were actually a driving force on the part of the Ministry, myself in terms of rigour. There have been many types of consultation and consultation, and of course we have seen everyday experience, serious damage to the elderly, cheating Hungarian people and families. But indeed, there have been a lot of conversations with people, honourable Member, who dealt with this area, because Deputy Secretary of State Kosorús has practically been all over the country, and we can safely refer to conciliation bodies as forums where people are sitting, professionals who are also dealing with this issue, and of course not only this, but also something else at these meetings. I myself, by the way, at Győr-Moson-Sopron County, so I was there, and I mentioned it myself. So we have agreed on this issue. [[23.30]] Perhaps it comes from the leaders of the largest consumer protection organisations, which I agree with, that the most serious problem with regard to consumer protection is in Hungary today, so we are looking for the answer to the most serious problem. My fellow Members have brought up the issue of festival cards. I was honest in the committee meeting and in the preparation that, indeed, there were two things to be met here, first of all, that there should not be events or events of a kind that are otherwise valuable, value-creating events, to prevent anything there, and secondly, at least I would not have opened the smallest loophole on this issue, because I would indeed have kept the original legislative intention fully, the intention presented by KDNP, fully preserved, and I think that this proposal, which we can adopt tomorrow, has actually preserved the original legislative will for consumers, consumers, Hungarian people, for the protection of elderly people. There is no doubt, by the way, that many of my fellow Members have pointed out that, indeed, this is a dynamic medium, if we use the term dynamism in this sense, even if this is not necessarily the positive side of the dynamic medium. We are talking about such clever people who are smeared with all their fat - in some cases we can use the expression, that they are villains - who are innovative in their own way and who are trying to squeeze everything out of people they are trying to deceive or who have been deceived before. So, I think it is a joint task, I must say to the parliamentary actors, governments and representative organisations, that we are really watching what has been said before by my fellow Member Vécsey, that, if we see that case, we see cases of some ingenious, rascal - or I do not know what else to refer to, the essence is understood by all of us, by the people too - so let us be on it, if we are allowed to use this ordinary expression together. I will myself be aware that later this ex-post impact assessment, which is what the official language calls an ex-post impact assessment, will be monitored for the impact and results of this law in addition to strictness. I would like to say that I myself did not suggest that we keep the question open. So, for the current period, in terms of experience - this is my last comment and opinion on the impact assessment - because it could have been left open, but you can see, everyone in the country is seeing that these organisations, these people, these organisations, companies that can be accused of abuse, are chasing and chasing in a terrible way, and I think we need to send a clear and clear message from Parliament tomorrow's decision to close this cheering period. I respectfully call it, as I have indicated to the general public in the general debate, to the public, to the families, to be careful and careful, because in these weeks, until the legislation comes into force, I would like to squeeze out the remaining benefits in the most sophisticated and fastest way, as long as it can be applied. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, I will answer your first question, as you said in the second one, that I will not, but I will answer that we have modified, refined - this term must be used - precisely because we have clarified the concept of the sale of goods, the concept of the sale of goods linked to the presentation of goods, in order to ensure that consumers are protected as widely as possible, and we wanted to prevent the trader or the person acting on his behalf from announcing, as two separate events, for example, a morning and an afternoon event. I think that I would also like to present, confirm, that we have thought this through in many ways, and that we have tried to draft these amendments against fraudsters, villains, and, where appropriate, to support them. I would just like to confirm briefly, and then perhaps I will not abuse their patience that there are very strict customer service regulations in the law, which I referred to at the Legislative Committee's meeting, and there are also amendments that we have confirmed, besides the gift, to declare a ban on advertising discounts, discounts, benefits or other benefits, and I do not know how these coupons could be classified in detail, so there are a lot of ways to lure those involved into such an event. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speakers, The government supports KDNP's proposal, supports the legislative committee's amendments, and I continue to say that tomorrow we will answer the question that is considered the most serious problem of Hungarian consumer protection, a clear answer and a message to fraudsters and those who damage older people in the first place, but all Hungarian people that this does not go on, this cannot go on. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-30-412	The debate is closed. I will ask Congressman Imre Vejkey if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-30-413	Thank you very much. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Given that Secretary of State Ákos Kara has already responded exhaustively to the questions raised, I would therefore just like to point out that the bill has just been tightened up in the debate before the Legislative Committee. In particular, the preliminary notification clause was added on the basis of compliance with Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2006 on services in the internal market and the scope of financial services that could be used for the presentation of goods has been clarified and, thirdly, the entry into force of the bill has been amended in order to achieve standardisation. On behalf of the authors, I thank the Fidesz and MSZP for their statements and their supporting words, and, if I understand it correctly, Dániel Z. Karpát also said that he supports the bill, thank you also from Jobbik, and I ask that the LMP and the independent people who are not present here support the bill in the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-30-414	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2008 LXXIII on pálinka, strudel pálinka and the Pálinka National Council. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/6982. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-30-415	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee discussed T/6982 on 26 November of the current year. LXXIII of 2008 on pálinka, marc pálinka and the National Council of Pálinka. a bill amending the law, and in this context, the Rules of the House 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report, with 31 votes in favour and a unanimous decision. The amended amendment adopted contains the three-point amendment proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, which includes language-place and text-focusing amendments. Allow me to briefly summarise the objectives set out in the proposal. The bill contains legislation on the becoming public body of the National Council of Pálinka. Within this framework, the National Council of Pálinka shall act in the procedures relating to the protection of origin, quality and origin, participate in the promotion of market access for pálinka and shall carry out public tasks related to the preservation of pálinka as a national treasure. The bill also lays down rules on the organisation and functioning of the National Council of Pálinka, its officials, its chairman, its supervisory body and its management, which my fellow Members have already mentioned in the detailed debate. However, I would point out that the new National Council of Pálinka will be established on the 120th day following the adoption of the legislative amendments, while the current National Council of Pálinka will be transformed into a transitional body upon the entry into force of the Act and this transitional body will prepare the formation of the new National Council of Pálinka. [[23.40]] A minor amendment to the proposal requires the use of a pálinka mark for producers of pálinka. In the late hour, it is particularly pleasant and uplifting to mention that the brandy is a very valuable national treasure. With this proposal for adoption, we can defend the prestige of pálinka more effectively, and I therefore ask that the bill in question be supported by my fellow Members during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-416	I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now. [[On Dr. István Nagy's signal:]] Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-30-417	Very briefly, since the proposal made by the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture is only an amendment of a linguistic and text-focusing nature, which was also fully accepted by the Legislative Committee. So I just want to say that the government supports this. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-418	Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Agriculture did not draft a rapporteur, so now it is up to its representatives to address it. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor István Harangozó.
u2015-11-30-419	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Since it is indeed the case, as the Secretary of State said, that this amendment contains only linguistic adjustments, I would not repeat the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party on the amendment of the law for a long time. However, I would like to briefly summarise once again that the Hungarian Socialist Party supports this proposal and, in particular, in view of the fact that we have work to do to protect the quality of the brandy and to maintain the prestige of the brandy, especially after the very unfortunate failure of the schnapps-freedom fight. The previous rules, which are otherwise supported by us in a way... - and I personally think it was a good decision that the government made it possible to make a regulated way of cooking brandy at home. However, from the way in which you have drawn up the tax rules and did not agree with this in the European Union environment, the European Union, it could be assumed at the beginning that this would sooner or later fail, which unfortunately has happened, and this has turned a little backwards. It was a fortunate change, indeed, that since practically 1924 the home cooking of the brandy has been permanently banned, but despite this prohibition, always, no matter what government it was, people at home cooked the brandy, and this happened in an absolutely irregular, uncontrolled way, often dangerous way. The fact that this was allowed by the government to cook brandy at home in normal circumstances, I say once again, was a story to support, but with the failure of its rules, a tax system has now been established, which has resulted in wage-making being significantly more detrimental than home-cooked brandy, and as a result it is feared that this process can continue, and that the market will increasingly be flooded with such stale brandys, which have been cooked black, of low quality. In many pubs, you can already see that plastic bottles are filling the brandy under the counter, and the fear is that the tax rules that have now been established after the fall of the pálinka-freedom fight are in the right favour of this process. Therefore, the fact that the National Council of Pálinka is held as a public body specifically helps to ensure quality protection, the marketing of high quality brandy, and the construction of the market of such a public body much more effectively. We think - in addition to the fact that it is fortunate that we have strengthened this body in this way - that it is worth thinking about what further steps we can take, even through further negotiations with Brussels, to achieve that good quality Hungarian brandy, which is indeed a national treasure, can be preserved for posterity as well. Thank you, that's all I wanted to add. [[Attila Mesterházy applauds.]]
u2015-11-30-420	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-11-30-421	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to one thing, while I, too, agree with Mr Bellozó's words that the proposal is worthy of support. What struck my mind after reading this proposal is a question of uniform marketing. I see a very large fantasy in the pálinka as in hungaricum on international markets, perhaps more potential - and you do not misunderstand the Secretary of State - than in wine, but I would not want to go into this discussion because of the shortness of time. In fact, there is only one point of my comment: this single marketing should be taken very seriously in addition to Hungarian pálinka, and I am in favour of the fact that in the case of such a product the money should not be spared. So, for our part, we will certainly support the work that is necessary and highly worthwhile to promote this particularly abroad, because there is a great potential in this Hungaricum. So for my part, I just wanted to say that we shouldn't take this lightly. In the past, there has been a bad practice of this agricultural marketing approach, but it would be good to preserve it somehow as a product and as an industry, if I may put it this way, in which Hungary has a great potential for agricultural products. Thank you very much. [[István Gábor Bellozó applauds. Dr. István Nagy: Thank you very much.]]
u2015-11-30-422	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate, so I'm closing the debate. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. [[On Dr. István Nagy's signal:]] You have the floor.
u2015-11-30-423	Yes, very briefly, to be clear, because in the air there will be a certain, the pálinka-freedom fight that has failed, said my fellow Member Gábor Bellozó. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have achieved your goal, because what happened during the time we fought the freedom fight? The pálinka has risen to a level in Hungary where we dreamed and wanted it to be, it has had an absolute improvement in quality, consumer habits have changed. Who would have thought that schnapps would have such a rank, such a weight, and would have reached such a level in the field of alcohol consumption, where, instead of all the pans made of all kinds of cereals, the fruit brandy now plays the role in the consumption of young people and the elderly that we would not have dared to place a bet on earlier? So he's got a rank - I think it's the most important thing in the fight for freedom - and he's gone through a qualitative transformation and he's put so much emphasis on quality that we should be proud of. This proposal is all about the fact that the transformation into a public body can mean the preservation and further development of this quality. If I were to put it that way, I'd say we'd expect this public body to carry on the war of freedom. Thank you very much also for the proposal of my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy for uniform marketing. This is the intention, because we can talk about a value, a Hungaricum that is always identified on a far-reaching earth. So it is a very good opportunity that we can really seriously and uniformly market this great, excellent treasure in many countries, far from Hungary. I would ask everyone to vote tomorrow to support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-30-424	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on the regulation of education and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. The government referral is T/7405. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. [[23.50]] First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-30-425	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/7405 on 26 November 2015. Rule 46 of the Act on the amendment of certain laws governing the regulation of education. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 20 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. The amended amendment adopted contains the proposal of the Committee on Culture, consisting of 24 points, as well as the amendment No 1 of the Legislative Committee, which contains largely linguistic and legal clarification and aims at resolving parallel regulation. As regards the two heads of the higher education institution, namely the rector and the Chancellor, specific classification criteria are introduced, it is recommended to provide the employer with a flexible opportunity for financial recognition of performance on the basis of the qualification. At the time of the entry into force of the bill, the general admission procedure for higher education in 2016 will start, but the new entry requirement is already proposed in the procedure, thus ensuring that all applicants apply the principle of equal treatment. In addition, the amendment proposes the introduction of different rules for managers over time. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-11-30-426	Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask the national secretary of state if he wishes to comment now. [[Dr. László Palkovics: Not now, thank you.]] He doesn't want to comment right now. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to the Members of the Council to take part in their speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-11-30-427	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We are also talking about a very important regulation in this House, unfortunately as the last item on the agenda, which is a little unworthy of the presentation. Unfortunately, I am not as positive about this proposal as I am about the previous one or the previous ones. Our position on the current amendment is that this material was drawn up in a hasty fashion and the previous mistakes are very difficult to correct in a hurry. We also have a problem that, by the way, this amendment would have given the government an opportunity to somehow prevent the kind of negative trend that has been observed in higher education in recent years, since we are spending less and less on higher education, fewer and fewer students are applying to higher education institutions, whether it is a university or a college. If I remember the number correctly, maybe 25 percent less students, and the state places allow about 30 percent less students to be admitted. This is very important because, in our view, education policy is not just a policy issue, not just a sector of government, but an area that can have a positive - or negative - impact on many other areas. What do I mean? We treat education as an investment, including higher education, not merely as a budget line, which is an item of expenditure, which is why we think that neither the creation of quality conditions in this area - whether for wages or for any other means necessary for education - nor as regards the number of students, since any system that restricts the access of young people to university or college in some form, whether financially or in any other way, is in the interest of the privileged few, in Hungarian: families who can afford this luxury, if I may put it so, therefore not serving equal opportunities or the principle of justice. Returning to what I just said: in our view, the kind of modern education policy that we would consider appropriate, for example, works as an employment policy tool. A number of studies in Hungary and abroad clearly show that as many as possible can study in higher education institutions, many of those young people can get jobs. In Hungarian, those with higher education have a higher chance of getting a job in the competitive labour market. But not only can such correlation be assumed or exists, but also that those with higher educational attainment can tend to work for higher salaries and work on the labour market. Not to mention, if there are high-quality, accessible education policies and educational institutions in Hungary, then emigration is also lower, as many students in Hungary now have very serious problems that they do not want to continue their studies in Hungary after high school, but in some foreign college or university, and there are even anomalies, as far as I know, when they can enroll in college and university more easily than in their home country. To sum up, therefore, I could sum up what I have just said by saying that we believe that every such law, every such amendment, should use the opportunity to change direction in this direction for the education government, and that, both in terms of providing conditions and more effective education for students, we should increase the resources that we devote to higher education. These amounts are almost ridiculously low, especially when compared with other sectors. For example, if I want to compare it to stadium construction in sports, it also consumes a lot more money. We believe that education could be a national minimum in which, in the long term, political parties could agree with each other, not only higher education - but now I am talking about it in an eminent way - but also education as a whole, because, apparently, countries that invested in education could be successful in the long term and have been able to establish a consensus in politics that would allow education policy to function in a long-term, calm and mature manner. We see that this is not happening in primary, secondary or higher education in the past, although it would be worth being a partner for all political parties. Overall, we cannot support the current draft law. We cannot support it either because according to our information, the various important bodies - whether the Rector Conference or the Round Table of Higher Education or the parties working in Parliament - have not received an opinion or at least not taken into account these opinions. This, too, is certainly a certain deficiency with regard to the current amendment. Therefore, I repeat that this is not acceptable in this form. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-30-428	I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed and I will ask Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. László Palkovics: Yes.]] You have the floor.
u2015-11-30-429	Mr President, Dear House, I think that we have had quite a long debate on the transformation of higher education. I would like to begin my reactions at the end of Congressman Mesterházy's comment. The extent to which this higher education strategy has been agreed, it also shows that there was a presumption from the opposition benches that it is one of the few areas that we discuss with opposition parties, and with all the representatives of the profession, such as the round table on higher education, which brings together the so-called interests of higher education. Technically, there was no proposal in any legislative amendment that would have been born without the round table of higher education. [[0.00]] So the negotiations, I think, can be implemented. How quickly the material was carried out? On the opening day, it was said that the government operates on the basis of a relatively well-defined strategy and defines the tasks that have been broken down. So I can't agree with that either. The development of the number of students applying and enrolled in higher education must always be careful what we are talking about here. In 2008, under a previous government, the number of student applications fell to less than 100,000, 98 thousand were exactly, and 56 thousand of them were publicly funded by the then MSZP government. In the last year, during the last admission period, 105,000 students were enrolled and more than 60,000 were admitted to initial education. I think it's not reduced, it's grown. Indeed, there is a kind of seasonality or demography, or those who left the university, who could not get into the university until 90, and until 2005, their number also appeared in the higher education system, they are slowly running out, which causes some kind of decline. The higher education budget has been growing steadily since 2012, when we look at the figures, it was HUF 187 billion in 2012, and we always talk about central budget support. This amount should be taken into account, not the appropriations or the plans. Now we are talking about the fact that in 2016, with the changes that we are already seeing, this will go up to approximately HUF 20020 billion or a few billion, and it will last at HUF 256 billion in 2017. So there is a steady increase, so that there really is a student downsizing. Here, we are doing everything we can to ensure that the number of students in the input is not significantly reduced, but we are also doing everything we can to make sure that this is more important, that those who enter the higher education institution should also complete it, so that they can obtain an evaluable degree. After all, the knowledge acquired must be documented, and this is indeed the way to work on the labour market. As Mr President said, the OECD study that has just been published says that with a degree in higher education in Hungary, there is 2.7 percent of the degree-unemployment, the OECD average is 4.5 percent, and Germany is around the same level. This means that the value of a higher education degree in the labour market is indeed well priced. That is why our aim is to make this even better, and that thirty-some percent student who is now dropping out of school, to increase the camp of those who will have a degree and can actually be placed on the labour market. How accessible is higher education? The basic basic basic training until the early 90s, when there were 106 thousand students en blogs in the Hungarian higher education system, this went up sometime to 420 thousand in the region of 2005 and has actually decreased since then due to these two effects. Even with this declining number of students, the higher education strategy has been clear, and the institutional transformations that are included in the law show that we have not closed access to higher education anywhere. Even where, as a result of previous bad political decisions, there were burdens in higher education institutions, Szolnok, Gyöngyös, that they could not pay, that they could not pay the burdens arising from PPP schemes, and that their number of students was significantly reduced. Even here, we focused on saving these institutions. In addition to this, how important access to higher education is, we have established a system of Community training centres for higher education, where we can also display them in areas where otherwise there is no access to higher education or there has been no access to higher education. The Higher Education Regulation has been published, and these training centres are now applying. I think in cities like Salgótarján, Ozd, though there, we talked about it the other day, there is a slight delay, now Ozd has not made contact, but this will also be fine next year, in Békéscsaba, this type of training centers will appear in Kisvárdán, Sátoraljaújhely. So I think that anyone who wants to study in Hungary in a higher education institution and who can meet the quality requirements, such as admissions, will be able to do so in a publicly funded place. So I think the concerns that you have shared with us, Mr President, are not really real, because from what we have done so far, it is exactly the opposite. Let me just mention two examples of how much we have used the current amending package for a change of direction. One example is the complete transformation of doctoral training. Experience in recent years has shown that a very small percentage of students enrolled in doctoral school have obtained a scientific degree. This put the scientific supply of the country, its instructors and research supplies in jeopardy. We have proposed substantial changes, and this is seen in the law, in order to increase partly the training time and partly the level of scholarships. In fact, the law provides for this only as an authority, but we are doing a 27 percent wage increase on the teaching, research and teaching side. I think that they mean that in this legislative amendment package, as in the previous one, we have actually dealt with conceptual issues that move the issue of Hungarian higher education forward. In this, I would like to thank both the pro-government and the opposition representatives for their support. I think we have had constructive debates. So I ask that the amendments be adopted and voted in favour. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-30-430	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. We now have post-meeting speeches. First up was Mr Sándor Bodó, on behalf of Fidesz: Carpathian Basin Best Man's Meeting with the title Földesen. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-30-431	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, For all nations, it is important that he preserves his traditions, his old historical customs, and consciously cultivates them. Our national values include events that we have been carrying with us for centuries and are passed on from generation to generation. We take them further because they are valuable to us, and we know that we need them to know our past, our history. Our children and grandchildren will learn about these traditions, learn about our culture, and these knowledge will provide them with the stable foundations that will help them throughout their lives. Every human life gives meaning to someone and to something, be it family, nation, home. It is precisely because of these thoughts that I feel it is important for me to tell you that, fortunately, many people in our country consider the preservation of our traditions to be important. Every day, a number of events will be held that will serve to present our historical customs and to pass them on to us. For me, too, a particularly important event took place in the Földes settlement in my constituency. It was held here on 27-28 November 2015 at VIII. Carpathian Basin best man meeting. The aim of the event is to preserve and present the wedding folk customs and traditions in the Carpathian Basin, on the one hand, and to contribute to the survival and flowering of the best man's profession. The mission undertaken by the best man's meeting is to preserve our wedding traditions despite changing circumstances, since nowhere in Europe the duties of the ceremonial masters are as extensive as those of the Hungarians. In the weddings today, the best man's responsibilities have been changed, narrowed down, but there are also other tasks that the best man has to perform and take on. These include the transition of traditional wedding customs to today's world, the use of our national costumes at least on our holidays, the maintenance of colorful wedding customs, the use of wedding dramatical games, the encouragement to join forces for a good cause. This is all a task that serves to colorize our culture and to preserve our traditions. If we don't take them any further, if we don't nurse them and revive them over and over again, they will be lost and our important national values will disappear. At the first best man meeting in the Carpathian Basin at the end of November 2005, the organizers invited the best men from Moldavia to Felvidék and the South. The number of the 60 best man at the time has doubled over the years, and more than 120 best man at the event has already appeared to preserve the traditions, 120 people who know that they know all the historical elements of this profession and are dedicated to carrying it on. The lively wedding games will give participants a taste of the habits of many areas. For the best man, this may also be a kind of training course, since in the two days there is time to talk, to meet, and to discuss professional questions. There is time and opportunity to strengthen everyone's awareness that such meetings are indeed necessary, and we must admit that we must support such important events. The traditions presented here represent a significant spiritual value, guide us through the wedding customs of old times, and we can also see, hear folk songs, folk dances, dramatic customs, colorful festive costumes and spectacularly handicrafted artisans. In recent years more and more people visited the Carpathian Basin best man's meeting, hundreds of invited guests and nearly 2 thousand interested audiences made the event more and more high-quality and successful, which resulted in the fact that today the best man's meeting has grown into a complex folk art event, which is of interest to all parts of the Hungarian populated areas, both within and outside the country. [[0.10]] The organizers also carefully pay attention to the transfer of knowledge, which is why a book on the materials collected in the last five years was also published with the title of a meeting of the best man in Alföldi, and the collection of additional material is also an excellent opportunity for this meeting. The organizers believe and believe that public education must have a strong role in preserving and perpetuating Hungarian traditions and customs, which is why they consider it important that they continue on the path that has started and do not lose the successes and relationships that have been achieved so far. We owe them thanks and thanks, because the care of our traditions gives us the opportunity to cultivate our past, our culture, which is the priority of every nation consciously thinking. We know, I know that organizing such an event is no small task, it takes a lot of people's hard work to achieve this traditional event. Therefore, I would like to express my thanks to everyone who has contributed year after year to the best man's meeting. The greatest strength lies in the unity of a community for one purpose and its knowledge and strength to preserve its traditions. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-30-432	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Varju has canceled his speech again, so we will not know the events of the last week. Mr Péter Ágh also applied for a post- Agenda address with the title "Bük" 750 years old. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-30-433	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, This year, one of the youngest cities in Vas County remembered that it had a very long history, since 750 years ago Büköt was mentioned for the first time in written form, which is known and loved by many people through its medicinal water in his home and the world. On the occasion of this round anniversary, let me give you a brief overview of the history of the city in the house of the country, which leads to far-reaching times. We understand that Hungarians also settled in this area at the beginning of the X. century. The first church is the XII. It was built in the 18th century, near which was the first village mentioned in the diploma in 1265. Annex XV is amended as follows: From the first century onwards, three villages, called Bük, existed side by side, and their inhabitants were common nobles and serfs. At the time of the Árpád-house kings and the XIV. The Büki family was best known in the century. The Büks look proudly at Pál Felsőbüki Nagy, who, already on diet 1807, stood up for the reduction of the burden of serfdom. At the 1825 Parliament, István Széchenyi offered his one-year income to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences after his speech for the establishment of the National Science Society. The beauties took part in the national cooperation even when they had to fight. So it was in 1848-49. Many of the local members of the National Guard served alongside the Drava. 29 men were recruited or volunteered to join the army. They were involved in the struggle for freedom, many of them served in Komárom. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. The second half of the century brought many changes. In 1865 the Sopron-Szombathely-Nagykanizsa railway was built. The so-called southern railway also passed between Upper and Central Bük and a railway station was established. During the years of the Monarchy, a sugar factory with many employees was established; a number of civil society organisations were formed, which led to a lively community life. However, the years of World War I have brought many tragedies. The fighting took 97 heroic sacrifices. It was also a serious loss that the sugar factory burned down. World War II claimed another significant loss of blood from the settlement. During the fighting, 61 heroes and victims and 30 Israelites and 2 Roma of the inhabitants of Bük died as a result of the Nazi misdemeanor. During the 1956 Revolution, a folk gathering was held at the heroic monument of the First World War. A few days later, the Soviet heroic monument was destroyed. During the great flood in 1965, more than a hundred houses were seriously injured by Bükon. During the autumn of 1957, oil exploration found a depth of 58 degrees [5882 m] of hot water. The well was strangled, the oil scientists moved away. However, laboratory tests have shown that hot water contains many minerals. Thus the locals reached the reopening of the well, which took place in 1960. After a year, bathing began in the ditch, but the construction of the spa did not take much time: in 1962 the first pool and the associated facilities were inaugurated. The healing effect of the Bük thermal water became increasingly evident, which was officially recognised. As a result, Bükfürdő has become an internationally important resort, which has also made significant progress in the life of the settlement. In 2007 Büköt was inaugurated as a city and the aim has been to maintain the quality of development in the period since then. Dear Parliament, Now on this 750th anniversary, I would like to pay my respects to all those who have kept the community, the life, the Hungarian word in the centuries that have passed. I bow down to their sacrifice, because without them there would be no Bük today. At the same time, I appreciate the people of today's city, as they carry on what the generations before them have left them. Happy birthday, sweethearts. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-30-434	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume the meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 10:16 p.m.]]
