u2015-06-17-0	Dear Parliament, The 2nd day of the first extraordinary meeting of the Parliament will be opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Speaking in advance of the agenda, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, LMP Group: How many steps to go before the introduction of serfdom? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-17-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My question is not poetic at all; as I overlook the recent proposals of the Ministry of Interior, it is entirely legitimate to ask how much longer Fidesz-KDNP thinks we have to wait for the re-introduction of serfdom in Hungary. What Sándor Pintér has put on the table, and what we are going to discuss in this House today is actually a coronation of what the government has done in this country in recent years under the title of public service. Here you have re-introduced feudalism, lord-servant relations in this country rather than Fidesz-KDNP getting together and finally putting a meaningful job creation programme on the table. In fact, this proposal consists of two parts. One part states that a person who does not accept seasonal work is excluded from community service for three months. They use a very false justification, they say that it will help public workers to return to the primary labour market. This, please, is not the case. This is about these people being able to work elsewhere for four months. Who is this proposal about, I might ask, whose interest it is to achieve this? It's basically that it's completely insufferable that public workers can't do anything other than work in the summer, they can't do a job that's more rewarding for them, you say. However, what we are talking about here is that we have these employers who would like to apply for a healthy workforce, all these people are already educated in the public work programme, and we clearly see that these employers want to meet their temporary labour needs. Let's just see what happens to people who go to this four-month seasonal work. These people are supposed to get 600 forints an hour, but they don't even have to pay for it, they actually work for 85 percent of the minimum wage. The problem is that in many places even this is not paid, Mr. Secretary of State. So we expect the Ministry of the Interior to go to Borsod and see that there are places where these people are working for 350 forints an hour, and it is quite simply obvious that in many locations these people do not live any better from seasonal work than if they were on community service. These are my empirical experiences, and I trust that there is enough capacity in the Ministry of the Interior to go there and see if one: compliance with the OSH standards for public workers, two: whether or not people will get this wage. What I expect from you is that if Sándor Pintér was able to put this bill on the table, then go to Borsod and see how these people are working, and if he experiences lawlessness, he should be put to rest. The other one. I don't know if they've thought about what's going to happen to the Start sample programs. In principle, the Start sample programs would be about people who do it in the longer term being able to get on their own feet and manage their own territory in such a way that sooner or later they can make a living and get on their own feet. Now, what position will the mayors who will have the opportunity to keep the public workers in the Start sample program, so to speak, to continue to flourish, or to be released for seasonal work? How are these mayors gonna decide? What position will they be in? What are they gonna back up, the seasonal work outing, or the Start sample program? What will this look like, Mr. Secretary of State? The other part of the proposal is so absurd that there is no other way to say it than the way in which you have nicely introduced workers' nuggets, whether they are market workers or public workers. In fact, it is you who are going to exclude from community service the person who has resigned from employment on his own terms, by termination or even by mutual agreement. To this day, I do not understand what Mr Zoltán Kovács meant exactly what he meant when he said that he wanted to prevent these tricks from happening. Well, there's no one else here but the Home Office. I don't understand. Do you really think that if you have a stable job, you're quitting because you're leaving your job with the same consent that you can be a public worker? What kind of Hungary do you see in front of your eyes? Moreover, even if I assume - and I expect your answer - exactly what tricks you're thinking - that it is someone's intention to leave their stable market work and go off to a public worker, I would also like to say that this proposal will have exactly the opposite effect. It's gonna put people in community service. Because they're gonna be afraid, and there's a perfectly fair fear that if their jobs don't go as expected, they might have to quit, but if they quit, they won't even be able to go back to community service. If there is a chance for a public worker to go to a market job, he will not dare to go, because he will fear that if he is fired or forced to agree, and this is what it is about in the Hungarian labour market, he will find himself practically where the coast is. So no matter how I look at it, I can't find anything rational in this bill, I can't see any point in it. I can't quite understand why I have to talk to the inside about this. When will the Fidesz finally get their shit together? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And do you do a complete, normal job creation program, and how long do you have to chase this backwards community service program? Thank you.
u2015-06-17-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-17-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government stated that its clear aim is that all people who are able and want to work in Hungary should be able to support themselves from the income of work. The fact that, at present, the economy is not in a state, not only in Hungary, but also in the European Union, in a position to provide adequate employment opportunities for all workers in the primary labour market, although the country's territorial disparities are also significant. While in some parts of the country there is a particular shortage of professionals, there is a lack of discipline, a lack of good labour, in other parts there are indeed areas where the workforce, the people who want to work, cannot yet work in the economy. We hope that economic growth and all the programmes that we have formulated will allow as little as possible to remain in public work. [[8.10]] It is also a fact, and I think it would be a mistake to deny it, that public employment is likely to be necessary in the long run at a narrow layer. For there are people, there are elements of society who, because of their lack of skills, because of their lack of attitude on the primary labour market, cannot or can only find it extremely difficult to find employment, because the primary labour market clearly does not employ me for social reasons, but for the law of the economy. So we believe that public employment may be necessary at some level, obviously in a very reduced number in the long term; in the current number and in the current structure we see public employment as a temporary solution. At the same time, it can be seen that, due to territorial disparities, during the summer season, the fact that in agricultural production, where it is not fortunate from a social point of view, but there is a significant need for seasonal work, there is a significant need to be able to employ seasonal workers during the summer season, during harvests or even during spring work. Indeed, public work, the system of public works, has provided certain workers and families with the security when they did not quit public work and did not take up work outside of public employment, nor did they undertake seasonal work. Therefore, in order to help tax workers in seasonal work and to reduce the burdens that public work otherwise imposes on society, we want to create the possibility for public workers to return to public work after interrupting the period of public employment, but after the interruption, to be able to participate in the seasonal work. We clearly believe that the presence in agricultural work, the participation of public workers and public workers in agricultural work, the acquisition of primary market experience, the relationship with employers, can also help them to get out of public employment in the long term and to move to the primary labour market. Who is interested in this, I think that this is in the interests of all of us, this is in the interests of Hungary. On the one hand, if there is a shortage of labour in agriculture, it must be possible to eliminate this shortage of labour. It is your call that, if there is lawlessness in supervision, whether in relation to work or non-compliance with labour rules, the state, of course, will take action against it. Another issue is that you obviously miss it now, and in many cases employers find such labour law checks excessive. But, of course, harmony must be established between the two. It must be stated that public work must in no way be a lasting objective for the employer or the employee, so it cannot be based either on public employment or on the start-up programmes, so that some of the public workers operate in the long term as permanent public workers. The aim of the Start sample programmes is not to connect to some employees, but to create an employment system that can continue to function in a self-sustaining way. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-17-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have presented my speech before the agenda with the title of current affairs, and I would like to talk to you about current matters, not what the Fidesz-propaganda would like us to talk about, because that will be possible at item 1; do not be afraid, we will give our opinion. I'm going to talk about the cases that really affect the people in this country, the people in this country, and the things that Fidesz would like to distract from. These are poverty, corruption, collapse in health care, chaos in education and emigration. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Chaos?!]] Let's look at poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, What you've been doing in the last five months with your anti-immigration campaign, with your propaganda, clearly serves the purpose of making millions who are forced to live their lives, fear and hate under the minimum living standards today. In the meantime, they may not realize that the cause of their poverty is, first and foremost, Fidesz and the government; the one-key tax, the humiliating public work and the minimum wage, the total vulnerability, you might say, slavery that you voted for them here in Parliament; that tens of thousands of children are still starving in the country, and you spend public money on questionnaires and posters. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] You have spent 1.3 billion forints on your anti-immigration propaganda in recent weeks and months. With this money, 50,000 children could have been dined throughout the summer. This is not demagogy, this is not populism, honourable Members. [[L. Simon László: You know it's demagogy!]] This money is being paid to your friends now, instead of using this existing money for this purpose. Why? Because we need common money, citizens' tax dollars for their unliving oligarchs, because they can't stop stealing industry, fellow Members. Corruption is your only true cohesion power. Instead of principles and ideas, this is what holds Fidesz together today. Let the citizen believe that it is bad for him because of immigrants or the opposition, so that he doesn't ever realize that he is miserable because of Viktor Orbán's pereputty, national Rippers, Garanchik, Simicskak, Papcsak, and the Fidesz little kings are simply stealing his eyes - because then these people will be very angry! 'Cause then they're gonna find out that the immigrants aren't the reason they don't get an appointment for blood tests, Mr. Secretary of State. [[L. Simon László: Oh, my God!]] They don't have to wait for years for an operation because of immigrants. That the emergency rooms often look like a refugee camp, indeed. That exhausted, driven doctors and nurses are trying to hold the fort if they're still trying to hold the fort. That the debts of hospitals are approximately HUF 120 billion, according to their own statements. And as a victory report, you're going to pay 60 billion forints, or half of it. And this money isn't for better health care, it's for half the accumulated debts of the unrated system to be paid back. We said it on debate day, ladies and gentlemen, the doctors, the nurses are leaving this country, there's no sign of a wage increase. We need an immediate increase of 50 percent in this area, as the MSZP government did once after entering the 2002 government. Without it, the inevitable collapse comes in the field of health care. It's not a threat, it's a fact. Damn your stadiums, your little trains, your consultations and your billboards. I want to spend the money on health care. And you, fellow Members, are building an education system where the children of the wealthy will surely remain in the elite, and those born in the difficult ranks will certainly not be able to escape. An elitist, feudal, barbaric education system is being taught to this country, flying Hungary back to the Middle Ages, taking away the future of our children, grandchildren and the entire country. This is real. This is what we should be talking about. I would like to turn to the biggest problem, and this is emigration, my honourable fellow Members, not immigration, but emigration There is no family that is not affected by emigration with human tragedies. These people want nothing but an apartment, a predictable career, a child, but you and your government can't give you that, because you don't have time to deal with such issues after your own dogs. Finally, let me draw attention to the fact that, in the long term, emigration will cause a huge tragedy, in addition to personal human tragedies, the tragedy that has caused the collapse of the budget and the pension system. If you are unable to keep the growing generations at home, fellow Members, you will end up begging immigrants to come here to work for hunger, so that you can continue to steal without delay. Thank you so much for listening. [[8.20]]
u2015-06-17-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State L. Simon László wishes to respond. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-06-17-7	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, His speech before this morning's agenda was quite shocking. [[Zoltán Pride: The billions for your friends! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Tell me about the access road. The president's ringing the bell.]] I could also say that it was a demagógiaacunami, honourable Member. [[Anita Heringes: Does the truth hurt, Mr. Secretary?]] and it's quite shocking [[Zoltán Gőgös: The Railway of Felcsút.]] how much you do not want to acknowledge what is really going on in this country, what crisis areas Europe is struggling with, and how normal, fair, humane and politically feasible answers must be given. [[Dr. László Kács: Little railway, that's what the country needs.]] You're talking about talking to the government propaganda machine about real problems. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Name one! Zoltán Gőgös: The Railway of Felcsút...]] You refuse to see it, and more precisely you have seen how right we were when we drew attention to the immigration problem, but you have also faced the fact that Europe has caught up with us, that the problem is even more serious than what we started to say months ago. When you said it was a trick with numbers, when you were talking about the fact that there's really no immigration problem here. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Talk about poverty!]] only the government wants to distract attention from real problems [[Zoltán Grimlock: About health care! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Tell us about the access roads. Anita Beringes intervenes.]] at the time they did not think that the real crisis was in fact European-sized, far beyond Hungary's margin of movement. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Tell me about the access roads.]] Honourable Congressman, At the time of the weekend Austria and France [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Speak about Hungary, Mr. Secretary of State.]] It's practically closed its borders...
u2015-06-17-8	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry to interrupt. I think that Mr Secretary of State, as long as the Member spoke, did not interrupt a single word. Please take note of this and consider it. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: This is the genre where you should answer the question.]] Thank you. The answer is ongoing, and Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-17-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, when Austria and France close their borders on the weekend, honourable Member, it is in fact all that these countries have temporarily suspended the Schengen agreement. [[Zoltán Gőgös: What if they close it in front of the Hungarians?]] You've seen on the Internet, in the reports, that along the French motorways, in incredible numbers, on foot, refugees run into the trucks on the highway, tear up the doors of the trucks, their luggage spaces, and simply invade these trucks. Motorcycling cops bouncing through and through [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Answer the question!]] and try to deal with the situation. [[Zoltán Gőgös: And they come to Hungary for public workers.]] It's a huge problem. And if the European Union were to accept what has been presented to operate and tackle immigration problems according to quota systems, then it would mean that more immigrants would come to Hungary than they are now. It's not a fake problem, as you claim, it's a real and serious problem, but you don't want to take this into account, and I'm telling you once again, you've found out we're right, so you're taking out the old record. Tens of thousands of starving children are coming. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's not coming, that's it!]] Corruption is coming... [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: You jerk, that's what! He's not coming, he's coming! The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Tamás Harangozó: How can you talk about this issue in such a way? The president's ringing again. Intercoms.]]
u2015-06-17-10	[[Dr. Tamás Bellozó:]] Congressman, I'm warning you twice. [[Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-17-11	What's the problem, Congressman? I listened to your demagogiacunami quietly and with dignity. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I'll take you down there and see what demagogy is.]] I didn't yell, and there was plenty to be done, and you seem to be nervous. The nervous, honourable Member who knows he's wrong. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Your thousand acres of orchard, that's it! That's easy.]] I would like to finish my speech. [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] Here is what I would like to say, honourable Member. When you say that we have introduced a single-key tax, you do not really take into account that we have not only introduced a single-key tax, but we have also set aside a family support system that has been unprecedented over the last decades, which we will extend to families with two children the following year, because our goal is to keep as many people in this country as possible and to have children as many as possible; to have at least three children or more in order to keep the nation from running out, but to increase the nation, honourable Member. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] With the introduction of a single-key tax and our aim, by the way, to further develop the results of the single-key tax system in such a way that, preferably by the end of the cycle, the single-key tax is a single-digit tax, in fact, we achieve the goal of keeping as much money as possible with citizens, saving and consuming it, because both are extremely important. [[What about the pensioner?]] The fact that they can't stop stealing, honourable Member, is the grossest statement. You're cutting, you're saying false things. They talk about corruption without, by the way, making one complaint. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't say that. It's happening today.]] You're listing names here, but you may be filing a complaint, but your only complaint won't hold up. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We'll replace the Polt, it'll be fine.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I must say, what Prime Minister has said many times... [[Zoltán Grimlock: That 84 suspects at MVH, what's that?]] Don't be nervous, Your Honour. [[Zoltán Pride: 84 suspects! The president's ringing the bell.]] Parliament is a difficult genre, and you must also be able to tolerate the counter-opinion, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Gőgös: The Secretary of State, too.]] I know it's hard. I can take it, I've been listening to all this nonsense before. [[Zoltán Grimlock: There are 84 suspects.]] I know it's really hard to listen to, but...
u2015-06-17-12	Congressman Haughty, I'm warning you in the first round.
u2015-06-17-13	They've been talking about half a minute of my response time. [[A voice from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]]
u2015-06-17-14	Go on, Congressman, I'll count on the time.
u2015-06-17-15	You shouldn't be so nervous, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We are very calm.]] Because they should be doing their job fairly, and they should have a real picture of a country, and they shouldn't be talking about child poverty and talking about corruption here, but they should be realizing what the real problems are in this country. [[Why do cows go to the slaughterhouse in Bakony?]] Honourable Congressman, I must also strongly reject the fact that our education policy is elitist, feudal and barbaric. If I were you, I'd be more careful with the adjectives to send this country back to the Middle Ages. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We are discussing this today.]] There would be only one advantage if we flew back to the Middle Ages: the glorious 50-year-old socialism and communism that you brought on us, at least we would get away with it. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Orbán could be crowned. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. László Kács: I was born in 75!]] It doesn't matter when you were born, honourable Member. [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP.]] It doesn't matter when you were born, honourable Member. The leaders of the party state are sitting in your ranks. [[The president's ringing the bell. Expansion and interruptions in the benches of the MSZP.]] You are the successor party of the party that [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Pathetic!]] Here he brought the dictatorship into our hands and operated it. Honourable Congressman, I want you to account for your conscience. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Lustration!]] Look at what's in this country. Explore what is the real situation and speak with dignity, patience and tranquillity accordingly. [[Expansion and interruptions in the benches of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] And the House, because I think they're gonna have to practice this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. A voice from the benches of MSZP: You were great!]]
u2015-06-17-16	Thank you. I would ask my fellow Members to respect each other enough to listen. You've been listening to the worst insults, Mr. Secretary, I think, [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Say one thing!]] It's mutual, back and forth! [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Say an insult!]] Congressman, I do not wish to warn you again today. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, Member of the KDNP Group, also spoke before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-17	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to inform you that between 11 and 12 June 2015 we held the 20th with great success in Berlin. European Prayer Breakfast, whose main motto was the word bridge. The bridge means many things in a physical and spiritual sense, but from any side we look at, the sine qua non of the bridge, i.e. it is an essential condition and thus an essential element of the traffic itself. Traffic, which can be two-way, i.e. in a spiritual sense, is mutual, but even one-way, which is what it means to give without the expectation of reciprocation. In terms of man and man, this means that we feel an inner urge to be in the service of another with our ability, talent, and strength. Such a selfless act is characterized by freedom, and joy is an essential part of it. I wish as many of our citizens as possible to share in this experience of joy. Ladies and Gentlemen, There are serious fault lines between individual political party families not only in Hungary, but also throughout the world, and whether bridges can be built over them is a question. Despite the debates we have just heard, the clear answer to both questions to be decided is yes. Bridges play an important role in political life. Prayer Breakfast is also an extraordinary institution because it is able to put representatives of groups of different views at the same table, through the platform of the created world, to help politicians in different countries of the world to openly discuss their country and the world's acute issues. The World Summit takes place every year on the first Thursday of February in Washington DC, this winter was the 63rd time. [[8.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Now allow me a personal creed. I attended such an event for the first time in 2014 with the aim of studying and establishing the Hungarian parliamentary prayer breakfast group in Hungary. I thought that creating such a group in the US could be between Republicans and Democrats, and perhaps even in other luckier places in the world, but in Hungary, where there are such deep trenches between individual parliamentary factions and Members that they often don't even say hello to each other in Parliament, well, that's impossible. It is impossible, because there is a personal and daily hostility between the political parties and the political groups, and compared to that, I would have to put these people at the same table to have breakfast together and pray with faith in God. [[Zoltán Grimlock: About the Refugees!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, You can see that the mission was impossible, and the situation seemed more than surreal. But my friends encouraged me to say that what is impossible to man is possible to God. So in this hopeless situation, I offered my prayers to the Lord for this purpose, and yet I began to do what will be. I have addressed the representatives of the opposition parties in a row, and it is a miracle that no one has rejected them, and in the knowledge of that, they have also come. The ice melted: On 10 April 2015 we had the first breakthrough, the first meeting, where Hungarian pro-government and opposition representatives together prayed for Hungary and for each other. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-17-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Before I give my answer or my reaction to what the Member has said, I would like to refer to an etude, and it is good that Mr Grimlock has remained here, because it will be about him. After all, while Mr. Secretary of State L. Simon responded to the pre- Agenda proposal for MSZP, he yelled at me before I heard that Peter Polt was being replaced, and then the criminal cases would be fine. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right!]] He's confirming that he said that right now. So we can't take this as a threat here from the benches of Parliament. [[Zoltán Grimlock:...not aiding and abetting!]] Now there was no hand gesture, there was no hand gesture at the moment, what the Member said, although the MSZP has little chance of ever having such a majority in the coming days to do so. But it seems that tools such as Jobbik are not far from MSZP and would even use non-statutory instruments to do so. [[Zoltán Gőgös: No...promotion, Secretary of State!]] There may be no room for such threats in Parliament, and I do not think it is right to yell out such sentences - and you will obviously have to speak about it in front of the group. But moving on to the suggestion of Congressman Vejkey, which I thank you for, that was a more peaceful suggestion. We must say, because it shows that in other European countries, perhaps even whose history has been somewhat luckier, or in North America, where, indeed, since the Civil War, internal conflicts have not upset the country, unlike Hungary, on which the XX. In the first century, two world wars and two inhuman dictatorships went through, resulting in huge fault lines within the countries, but elsewhere, where they may have managed to get through XX more peacefully. It is easier to keep such prayer breakfasts, whether through factions or parties, one of the positive messages of which for Hungary may be that after a longer, more peaceful period, the world of politics can become one where consensus is easier to find. On the other hand, it is important for us, especially for us Christian Democrats, the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance, that in other countries Christianity is indeed a public issue, in such a way that it connects Members and sets common goals for them. After all, Christian faith, although based on a personal belief, becomes communal at the moment as they begin to practice, not only because in communion, mass, prayer classes, those who believe in Christian faith meet, but also because we believe that faith must always be manifested in works directed toward other people, as it is written in the Scriptures that what you do to one of the smallest, you do to me, said the Lord Jesus. So from this point forward, the manifestations of faith, whether it be social care, health care, charity, helping others, learning, organizing education, always appear on the social scene, and the manifestation of Christian faith always results in such community functions when I look at it from the standpoint of the state. That is why it becomes common because of Christianity and its value. These MEPs, who gather for prayer breakfast in Berlin or Washington, do not matter what party they come from or what title they hold in Parliament or in the government, thus making their Christianity a sort of public theme. This is clearly a way for Christian people to raise their sensitivity to politics, to raise their awareness, and to put politics on a common moral basis, so that they can find common goals that can improve the situation of people living in the country over cycles. This is why it is important not to have this taboo in public life here in Hungary, not to be taboo in politics, although there was a time, especially during the SZDSZ, when they wanted to push such moral manifestations out of Parliament, and they said that only technical, redistribution issues can be discussed here in the field of politics. Yes, it has something to do with moral issues, moral issues, worldview issues, politics. If you just look at a single dollar bill and trust in God, this is the inscription, from which you can see how much more the morality of the Ten Commandments in other countries pervades the entire political and public system. That is why it is important to preserve Europe's Christian roots, because it is not directed against others, but simply gives the continent a character and a common value world, it gives the continent common goals, we must be proud of them, we must strengthen them. If Europe loses its Christian roots, then extremes can grow into this emptiness. This is what we see in Western European societies that have become more secularized, how radicalism has taken the place of moderate politics based on Christian values, or how young people's interest has been aroused by such extremes. That is why we can say that a stable set of values, a stable Christian set of values, can serve Europe's prosperity and peace in the coming decades. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Ádám Mirkóczki, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for a speech before the agenda: When will criminals be told that order is in order? It's an address. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the MSZP?]] I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I asked for an opportunity before the agenda today to think further about the steps and the concrete action plan that I believe, despite all efforts, the government or the Ministry of the Interior has not yet been able to meet. I do not wish to take the steps that have been taken since 2010, so I am aware that there are 3500 more police officers, what Btk. tightenings have happened and what the Ministry of Home Affairs is trying to do. At the same time, I would also like to bring the Prime Minister's words here, when he started this topic with the death penalty, if I remember correctly, Pécs said that, unfortunately, the introduction of the three strikes law or the institution of the actual life sentence did not have the desired effect, nor did the number of serious and anti-life crimes fall substantially. I think that if a prime minister says that, there's no way to accuse us here of saying that we're always trying to paint a picture that isn't true. I think we need to take this seriously, and so do we. We know how statistics evolve, how they change, but at the same time we know what kind of public safety problems there are in everyday life, if you like, in everyday life, in everyday life from the capital through the smallest settlement. There are cases of school violence, crimes against elderly, retired, single or single people, crimes against women, children and so on. What we see as a prime reason, I think, is that we agree that it is not possible to prevent all crimes, because there have always been and probably will always be criminals, but we can do so in order to limit them, so we can prevent as many crimes as possible. I don't think there's a debate either between the government or the opposition, if we say that the more street patrols there are, the greater the police presence 24 hours a day, probably the less crime at those points. [[8.40]] That's what we think. For this reason, we propose to consider or further develop the regional mandate system. The Ministry of Interior has also sent me a detailed briefing, based on which - how shall I put it? - we can't calm down, because there are many numbers of problems, because if we think that today there is no district seat in nearly 1200 settlements in Hungary, it is almost 40 percent of the Hungarian settlements, and that is a big problem. If we think that there are three or four villages and settlements at the same time for a large part of the district commissioners, then we can also say that it is impossible for a district commissioner to perform his duties in three or four settlements, because in most cases he only has time and energy to run through a settlement, to ask if everything is okay, but the police presence is not effective. We have also seen examples of the proliferation of crimes against different persons and assets in a settlement, the withdrawal of the Alert Police with relatively large forces, and, where appropriate, for weeks and months. This resulted in the reduction of the number of similar crimes to almost zero during those periods. But the Alert Police will leave in time, and then we'll have the same space. One unfortunate tragedy recently occurred in a small village along the Tisza, when a tax-paying man in the prime of his power was brutally beaten in broad daylight by four people who were practically murdered. This also shows that if there is a greater police presence - or, let us say, there is a permanent police presence - in these settlements, such cases may not be avoided by a hundred percent, but they can certainly be reduced. Therefore, we would like it to be possible, either within the framework of the police, to transfer people, where appropriate, to district agents, or to increase the number of police officers, which we do not currently see in the budget, in any event would be a blessing. We want to continue to give priority not to traffic cops, but to police officers on the street two by one, three by one patrol, serving, dogging or walking, because this could significantly reduce the number of crimes in everyday life. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond on behalf of the Government.
u2015-06-17-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If we consider the past five years of parliamentary activity, we have now heard a pre-meeting contribution from the Jobbik Group which finally acknowledges the five-year hard work that the Government, Parliament, Ministry of Interior, the police, the Civil Guard and the civil society organisations working with it have done for the safety of the Hungarian people. I am pleased that Congressman Adam Mirkóczki finally acknowledges this effort and that this effort continues, and that this is the right way both in legislation and in implementation. In addition to expressing my joy, I take this opportunity to ask the Member and his group to support in the future the efforts we are making to strengthen order and security. As regards the Prime Minister's statement on stricter criminal law action in Pécs: I think that there is no contradiction in this, because stricter laws, stricter action, strengthening the police, creating laws enabling the speeding up of judicial case-law have all contributed together to the fact that we can say that people live in Hungary today more safely than before 2010. The numbers confirm that. While 12,000 people spent time in prison prisons before 2010, today this figure exceeds 18,000. Thus, as a result of tougher action, people today live more safely in Hungary than before 2010. But I have always said here in Parliament, and they can prove that we can never be satisfied, because we always have to do more for public safety tomorrow than we did today or yesterday. Our government is determined in this regard and we would like to continue this programme. As far as the number of district agents is concerned, you have indeed turned to the Minister of the Interior with a written question, to which we have given a specific answer. On 1 June 2015, 1610 municipalities were established as regional trustees and 3474 persons served at 3548 status. This means 97.9% upload; the target is obviously 100% upload. I would also like to say that today there is a police presence in all the municipalities of Hungary, despite the fact that there is not a regional seat everywhere, and that the district commissioner does not serve everywhere. But in cooperation with the local authorities, we have built a system where the police are also present in settlements where there is no kmb seat, but every day the policeman appears, consults the mayor, where there is a greater police presence, where action is needed, what needs to be done to prevent crime. And what I agree with you about your contribution is that we need to do more in the area of preventing crime, because the crime that is not committed, there is no need to investigate, there is no victim, there is no victim. We would therefore like to move forward in this area, and I believe that there are real conditions for this. On 7 March 2015, a burglary prevention programme was launched in cooperation with the National Civil Service Association and the National Crime Prevention Council. This is also very important, since these crimes also rightly irritate people. This is currently taking place in Baranya, Somogy, Pest, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg counties, as well as in Budapest, but the aim is to extend this programme to the whole country in the light of experience, because we believe that it is worth doing so on the basis of positive experiences. As far as individual crimes are concerned, the goal is, of course, not to commit crimes, to prevent them, but if they do commit crimes, that is the goal, and we also promised to do everything we can to bring the perpetrators to justice. In order to achieve this goal, the police have made significant progress over the past period, for which I thank the staff. We are confident that this trend will continue, and we are determined to further strengthen public order and public security in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-17-24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Simon Róbert Balázs, Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title of the results of the cultural sector in the last five years. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2014, following the establishment of the new government, the cultural sector formulated its main social policy objectives, the introduction of basic cultural care and cultural community development. These objectives can be achieved on the basis of the sector's achievements since 2010. In 2013, a cultural public employment programme was launched, combining labour market goals and community building. In the first phase of the program, 4 thousand people, then 4,500 people, and in the third phase of the program, 6100 people were involved in almost 2 thousand settlements, with thousands of partner organizations. 22 percent of the participants returned from public employment to normal employment. In particular, the programme improves the situation of young people, people living in small and disadvantaged areas and women of working age. In order to strengthen the culture of the countryside, nearly 500 cultural houses, community theatres and libraries were renewed out of 27 billion forints in settlements below 5 thousand people. The cultural programmes there were supported by a HUF 1 billion TÁMOP application source. A unique national-level small-scale library supply system has been established in Europe to ensure the service supply and national documentation of the entire library system at local level. So far, 2450 settlements have joined the programme, which is supported by the central budget in 2015 with HUF 1.9 billion. [[8.50]] From this year on, the minimum amount of support for the public education and library tasks of the municipalities was fixed by the Budget Act at HUF 1.2 million, regardless of the number of inhabitants, which benefits municipalities with modest financial opportunities. Thus, compared to the 2014 grant, the expenditure increased by almost HUF 1.2 billion in 2015 in 1790 municipalities. As of 1 January 2013, the member institutions of the county museum organisations and the 16 county libraries were maintained by cities and municipalities with county rights according to their territorial location, and by our decision last week they also received the property rights of the movable property. New applications to support the professional work of museums have also been published, with a combined sum of more than HUF 500 million. In recent years, the Agora programme has received more than HUF 20 billion in funding and is currently being developed in the community cultural institution of 14 cities with county rights or more than 30 thousand inhabitants. Out of the 14 winning projects 9 - Győr, Szeged, Tatabánya, Szekszárd, Kaposvár, Békéscsaba, Hódmezővásárhely, Debrecen, Szolnok - finished by the end of 2014. Five more investments - Szombathely, Kecskemét, Veszprém, Miskolc, Nyíregyháza - are in progress, and two projects - Mosonmagyaróvár and Hatvan - have started this year. The digital development of the art cinema network was supported by the wallet with HUF 100 million per year between 2011-14, thus the technology was renewed in 39 rooms of 32 cinemas in four years. The Mátyás Church was renewed from 8.5 billion and the Grassalkovich Castle from 3 billion, where the Hungarian Hunting Museum of Széchenyi Zsigmond in the Carpathian Basin took place. The development of the Liszt Ferenc Academy of Music was underway, with HUF 600 million the state supported the completion of the Budapest Music Center as a private investment. In 2014 he played continuously, so far a quarter of a million viewers were accepted by the renewed Erkel Theatre, which the Socialist Government still wanted to dismantle. The program series of Opera Adventure launched by the Hungarian State Opera House in 2013 has so far reached more than 100,000 high school students, and in spring 2014 the program was expanded into a cultural adventure with free museum, library and archival pedagogy. This reached 12,500 students, and the number of applicants tripled. I would also like to point out that thousands of events have taken place in Hungary with the continued support of the National Cultural Fund and the Hungarian Academy of Arts, and that in my constituency, Győr, the XI. Hungarian Dance Festival between 15 and 21 June, which is the biggest festival of Hungarian dance art. Ladies and gentlemen, It is often said that culture is expensive, hard to reach. I think it would really cost us all if we didn't. Culture is not a goal, it is not a profit, it is a part of something large, a force of beauty and joy, a force of communion. The original meaning of the word "culture" means care and preservation, that we take care of something. The old Romans used it to describe the relationship between man and nature. It was thought that nature should be cultivated and nurtured in order to become habitable to man, and it is no different today: culture lives when it is nurtured and cared for. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-17-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-17-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, I also think it is important to note the curve that the Member has written here in his speech, as it clearly indicates that not only the major events, such as the renovation of the Academy of Music, the renovation of the Castle Garden Bazaar, the establishment of the Budapest Music Center, so these truly visible institutions, which have been handed down together with a ribbon cut, have been part of the cultural support and cultural policy system of the last five years, but we have started there to reach as many people as possible. Through the National Institute of Culture, there is a network at the disposal of the government that can deliver the cultural values that form the community of our nation to many, many hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands and millions of people in hundreds of settlements. Therefore, it is important that the local normative, as you said, has been raised to 1.2 million HUF, however large the settlement is. I think this is important, because it helps the inhabitants of the smallest settlements, more specifically the local leaders, to get all kinds of cultural value, no matter how far away they are from a larger city or the capital. In the same way, cultural public employment is important if we can go back to the subject before the first agenda, because, as you pointed out, more than a fifth of the public workers who participated in it, who were usually graduates, and who were almost without exception graduated, were then able to find a place in the world of work. This is how the world of cultural policy and the world of public employment are connected. I believe that a few thousand of the thousands involved have already created real jobs through cultural public employment, not to mention this shortage of professionals, the lack of staff that rural cultural houses and rural libraries have to suffer, and this programme has been able to partially replace it. It has thus brought great benefits to everyone. It is also important from the last five years, I believe, which could not have been in the time of the Member, the establishment of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, which, we trust, will be the joint home of all Hungarian artists sooner or later. As the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is clearly home to the finest figures in the scientific community and provides financial support for continuous research, the Hungarian Academy of Arts can fulfil the same function in the field of art. The Academy of Arts is an institution established in the Fundamental Law, so in the long term all artists can rely on its existence and support in a stable way, so we trust that it can provide an increasingly secure background in the cultivation of Hungarian culture as a completely autonomous body. The National Cultural Fund programme now has the same certainty and a more predictable background, adding the Czech Tamás programme, which offers young artists, so-called garage bands and gangs of students, so we hope that this Czech Tamás programme will also be a kick-start for many people. The National Cultural Fund is now fully managing all its applications electronically, and the applicants receive electronic notifications, so it is much more transparent, clearer and clearer this system that has developed here. I would point out here that this policy of support does not, of course, stop at the current borders of Hungary, but is open to the entire Hungarian community. For example, we can also be proud of the fact that the National Cultural Fund supported the cultural programmes of Hungarians across the border, which are an integral part of Hungarian culture, with HUF 300 million, and more specifically of the proposals that were submitted from across the border. Of course, Transylvania and Partium are the first ones here, but Hungarians from Vojvodina, Slovakia or Transcarpathia have also taken part in this offer. Thus, this also helps to strengthen the Hungarian culture as a whole. The National Film Fund has also become an important institution in Hungarian cultural life, because if we only looked at our latest films in Cannes, the Film Fund could support films that would not have been successful at international competitions or anywhere else if there was no support for the National Film Fund. If you go to the movies regularly, you can see in the recommenders that if you go in to see a movie, you can now offer at least three quality, all-night watchable and enjoyable Hungarian feature films in a block during the film, which also expanded the previous offer, where some elements were, but were not so systematically and with transparent support in one direction. Not to mention that everyone on the Internet can always check where decisions have been made. So we can say at the same time that the basic cultural supply has been strengthened in Hungary in all settlements, and on the other hand, there have been excellent institutions that stand up internationally, from Eszterháza to Budapest and Debrecen. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-17-28	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript of the appointment of State Secretary to the Parliament. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2015-06-17-29	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Act, with effect from 16 June 2015, Dr. Tamás Köpeczi-Bócz was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources. Budapest, 15 June 2015 Sincerely: János Áder
u2015-06-17-30	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. [[9.00]] Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 LXXX on asylum. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Antal Rogán, Lajos Kósa, Fidesz, a separate motion by Members T/5136. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Antal Rogán, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-17-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days, weeks, and even months now, immigration and the increasing number of immigrants in Hungary are constantly being discussed. We all remember that, compared to 2012, when the original immigration control rules were still in place in Hungary, such as the possibility of alien police detention, we were able to keep the number of immigrants at 3-4 thousand per year. Compared to this, it exceeded 43,000 by 2014, and in 2015 we now have to expect that by the end of June the number of immigrants will be over 60,000 illegally to Hungary, crossing the border illegally. The vast majority of these, of course, are not eligible for political asylum, and we also need to see that they are coming to Hungary in violation of the law. You could all choose to visit the border crossing point, submit your asylum application there, and ask for the possibility of entering Hungary or the territory of the European Union. In the same way, their asylum applications should be taken into account, compared with 99 percent of them opting for illegal, illegal border crossings. It is obvious that, organised by smuggling gangs, prepared by lawyers linked to smuggling gangs, and essentially not because of the need to save lives, but specifically for reasons of livelihood, they are trying to enter Hungary and the territory of the European Union for economic reasons. Compared to the situation that we have been talking about for months, I think that this weekend or the first days of the week, there has been a whole new situation. What we were afraid of was that some countries of the European Union have virtually terminated the Schengen Treaty, and the completion of internal borders within the European Union has begun in the framework of a coordinated action by French-German Austrians. With coordinated police action, France and Germany have reversed illegal immigrants coming from Italy, practically violating the borders on the interoperability of internal borders, which entered into force in Europe with the Schengen Convention. This means a clear closure of internal borders for illegal, illegally received economic immigrants. Germany has joined in this, and it is important to see that the Austrian Minister for the Interior, who specifically talks about closing the eastern borders of Austria, the borders towards Hungary, makes a strong voice in this matter by the Bavarian Minister for the Interior, and a very strong voice by the President of the French Republic, who is a socialist politician. They all seem to be catching up on the circle that says that Europe's internal and external borders must be closed to economic immigrants. Meanwhile, the number of applications for the return of economic immigrants who came through Hungary to the European Union was higher than 15,000. It is clear from this that the argument that immigrants move on from Hungary does not stand up because they will be deported back to us. The Austrian Minister for the Interior has explicitly announced measures which concern that Austria has practically suspended the examination of asylum applications in the last few days, but has speeded up the deportation procedures, so it is obvious that more than 15,000 new applications for return and deportation are to be expected. It follows, ladies and gentlemen, that in this new situation, it is worth considering that if Western Europe closes its internal borders to economic immigrants, then what will happen is that Europe's second most popular immigration route leads through the Balkans and Hungary. Then those immigrants will be stranded here in Hungary, and those who have come in so far will be deported back to us. If we look at the current statistics, it is important to see that summer is particularly a time that is not only a season for tourists, but also for immigrants, the season for immigrants who come to our country illegally. Summer has always reached its peak in these statistics, which is expected this year as well. We now see, as I have said, by the end of June, the number of immigrants will be over 60,000, and we can predict that this could actually reach, or even exceed, 100,000 by the end of the year. Nearly 100,000 immigrants from one side, from the southern border, closing Western European borders, deportation from the other side. I think that the politicians responsible for this situation here in Parliament can do nothing but immediately consider what measures we are putting in place so that if the European Union closes its internal borders, Hungary will also close its southern external borders. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that the government must take the necessary steps to take such measures in the first place. The Fidesz parliamentary group therefore strongly asked the government last night to address and take the necessary measures to implement such extraordinary measures at its meeting today. I mean, it's a new situation. What we feared really happened. The closure of internal borders by France, Germany and Austria started this weekend and in the first days of the week. I therefore believe that, as of this moment, the government has urgent action to take, but it must receive the appropriate legislative support. In order to resolve the borders, we have to say that, yes, we do not want to delay those who are obviously not a political refugee, obviously abusing asylum, arriving in Hungary and through Hungary as economic immigrants to the territory of the European Union. In their case, we need to take the acceleration measures so that the Hungarian authorities can act quickly and quickly, close the borders and repatriate immigrants who are not eligible for asylum. To this end, the Parliament must do what has long been authorised in the internal rules of the European Union, but there has never been an EU rule in this regard, since Brussels has, of course, been too far-fetched in this area, as in all other cases. The internal rules of the European Union also make it possible to define the concept of a so-called safe third country, which in this case effectively means a safe transit country. There was no regulation in Hungary either, so we are now allowing the government in a legislative proposal to lay down, by the way, the safe third countries from which Hungary does not accept political asylum seekers, because those countries are considered to be already safe, and we believe that even if someone came from an area where he or his family could have threatened their lives, the fact is that in this safe third country, in transit, there is no longer such danger. The so-called Balkan route, which also leads to Hungary, is the second most visited immigration route in the European Union, and is very little behind the maritime route to Italy, leads through Greece, leads to Serbia, we think that many times even Bulgaria is affected, we must see that these countries are safe countries. This is also the case for Serbia, since it would not be possible to talk about the EU accession negotiations with Serbia, because a country must already comply with this definition if the European Union starts accession negotiations with it. Hungary is also a strong supporter of Serbia's accession to the European Union as soon as possible. I think that it is also obvious from now on that we have to say that Serbia can meet these requirements because Serbia is also a safe third country outside the territory of the European Union, from which neither Hungary nor the European Union should accept political asylum seekers, and, moreover, the vast majority of them, as we know, do not actually seek asylum, but rather an economic immigrant, use asylum as an excuse to enter the territory of the European Union. I would like to ask the Parliament, if possible, to establish a rule on this matter as soon as possible and to give the government the necessary authority to take action during the summer and to take the necessary measures to close the border. What these are like on the part of the government, I think, everything needs to be considered there, so from much stronger border surveillance to the application of the physical border lock. Obviously, this is the last step, but it must be seen, fellow Members, that this is no stranger to the European Union. The European Union itself requested, ordered for Bulgaria and financed the construction of a physical borderlock, i.e. a fence, on the border between Bulgaria and Turkey. [[9.10]] This is at the external border of the European Union. I think that it would be better for us to close this particular Balkan route in these areas in the first place, so Greece would have responsibilities here, Bulgaria would have responsibilities with the European Union on a number of occasions. But if you do not, fellow Members, you will have to see that in the end we will remain, because, as I have said, the Austrians will close the western border of Hungary and begin the deportation of refugees. From this moment on, my fellow Members, Hungary will be in a position to return immigrants from the west and to arrive from the south and from the east. This situation, we think, must be avoided. However, this requires very decisive action. To do this, we would also ask my fellow Members to support Parliament. And here, let me ask our Liberal and Socialist fellow Members to put aside their traditional ideology-driven pro-immigration policy, because look at it, for example, the French Socialist President in Europe is able to put this aside, because the Socialist Party has elected the President of France as President of the Republic, but he is still more decisive and stronger in the face of illegal immigration than a number of other popular politicians within the framework of Europe. I think that this is also necessary here, because Hungary is now quite clearly one of the most affected countries on immigration issues. I therefore ask the socialists and liberal politicians who are often independent in Parliament not to judge on ideological grounds, not to be pro-immigration, to support the government and the governing parties, so that if Western Europe closes the internal borders, Hungary can also close the southern borders of the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-17-32	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the Government.
u2015-06-17-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Today, it is clear to everyone that Europe, the European Union's biggest problem, is the issue of illegal migration. It is also clear that with the current rules the European Union cannot answer this very important problem. The dramatic events of the last few days encourage us to act on this very important issue in accordance with Hungarian national interests. According to the latest figures, by the way, Honourable Parliament, the 514 illegal border crossings of yesterday crossed Hungary's borders, and 57 192 people applied for asylum in Hungary this year. I think these numbers speak for themselves. It is very important for the EU to put in place stricter rules on this issue and, on the other hand, to have these issues in the Member States, since legislation, public administration, proper legislation and appropriate government measures can effectively address this problem. It is also clear that a large proportion of asylum seekers are not real refugees, there is no war in their country, they are not persecuted, their families, they are not at risk of life because of their nationality, religion or political creed, they come from a safe country, so there is no justification for granting refugee status. Those who arrive in Hungary through Serbia and enter the European Union at Greece, by the time they reach Hungary, are no longer political refugees, because they are not coming from a country from which they should flee, they are leaving their country for economic reasons. In response to yesterday's comments before the agenda, I explained in detail how many people arrived in Hungary yesterday, so their aim is clearly to make a better living, by submitting an asylum application to the authorities, and by abusing the protection provided by international law. This proposal, which I thank on behalf of the Government for submitting, is an opportunity to prevent this from happening, will allow the authorities to examine not only where the applicant comes from but also through which transit countries he comes to Hungary in the future. The aim of the proposal before this House is to ensure that those who come from a safe transit country to Hungary cannot seek political asylum. We continue to believe that everyone, each country, must protect its own borders, so that the situation of illegal migrants arriving in Hungary must also be resolved by Hungary. For this reason, the Government thanks and supports the submission of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-17-34	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by its representatives, the first of which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-17-35	Mr. President. Dear House, 2500, 18 000, 42 700, 57 200 - these numbers are the number of illegally crossing Hungary's borders in recent years; in 2012 2500 - rounded, of course -, in 2013 18 000, in 2014 42 700, in 2015 until yesterday 57 200. It is easy to calculate from this growth - an increase of nearly 40 times in three years - that the number of illegal immigrants will stop at around 120 thousand this year. It's a number you can't miss. Even though some left-wing politicians claim that this is not the problem, there is no need to deal with it, it is okay, we say that it is not okay, something has to be done urgently, because the data is even more alarming when we look at how much more is needed for illegal immigrants who are trying to move to Europe at any moment. At the hearing of Parliament's Defence and Police Committee, the Minister of the Interior, based on international data, made it clear that 5 million people are on their way to Europe; five million people are at any moment. And if we look at the countries and regions from which these illegal immigrants come, it is clear that this pressure will not decrease. It's not gonna fall! So that something must be done, not only Hungary, but also many Member States of the European Union have noticed and are trying to react to it. However, since we are, in the strict sense of the word, a front country in this whole illegal migrant flood, as we have a Schengen border to the southern part of the Balkans, Hungary cannot wait to see that sometime in Brussels, European politicians who have apparently turned a blind eye to the problem that already exists and waited for a miracle that this pressure would suddenly go away and that they would not step up. The extremely timid steps that Brussels has taken so far are useless. Last year, more than 600 000 illegal immigrants arrived in the European Union, a fraction of which were eligible for political asylum, but Brussels has been working to bring together some kind of quota system to see how many immigrants each Member State should receive. I would add that the numbers that Brussels has published do not have the real ones in a thank-you relationship with the facts. After all, what Brussels said to Hungary first was 200-300, and then this number went over a thousand, where is this on a thank-you basis with 57 thousand people entering Hungary to this day? Not to mention immigrants from earlier years. It's clear as day that something has to be done. There have been timid attempts on the part of the European Union and on the part of the Commission in Brussels, as a directive has been adopted on the basis of a previous decision, which would have given the Commission the opportunity to designate at EU level the so-called safe transit countries and safe countries of origin from which the Union does not accept illegal immigrants. However, this process has been stalled and, after Brussels has not been able to cope with the task of establishing a common position between a safe third country, i.e. transit countries and safe countries of origin, it has referred this back to the competence of the Member States. [[9.20]] This means that Hungary has the opportunity, in accordance with the European Union's directives, to designate safe transit countries and to designate safe countries of origin. This authorisation must be given to the Hungarian government, and there is simply no other way to deal with the problem in the short term. What does that mean? It means that, since the European Union does not have a immigration policy, but has a refugee policy, so the European Union system is designed to ensure that people who are threatened in their own countries have insufficient physical security, they are persecuted by the European Union. This is a process of evaluation, and asylum must be sought, and the rule is that where they first entered the European Union, this procedure must be conducted there. I would add that the rule is not to cross the green border illegally, but to apply to legal border crossings, and otherwise to go to a reception centre and wait for the end of the asylum procedure there. Therefore, because a person comes into the European Union to seek political asylum, he is not entitled to cross European internal borders, but should wait for him to decide whether or not to receive asylum. One figure, I think, is extremely talkative: last year, fewer than 800 of 42 700 illegal immigrants were entitled to political asylum. So the overwhelming majority of illegal immigrants are illegal immigrants simply for economic reasons and are not entitled to political asylum under European rules. However, everyone knows that this works by giving illegal immigrants the Hungarian authorities HUF 4300 - that's the cost of their daily care - and then they go on almost immediately, the average stay is roughly three days. By the way, it can be calculated that the fact that very few people are staying here are going on illegally has cost Hungarian taxpayers 1.5 billion forints last year. And then this doesn't include police costs and registration costs, the different procedural costs of maintaining the office. Overall, it is clear that the current rules and the procedures resulting from the Dublin Convention must also be implemented in the country where they first entered the Union. This is Hungary for these people. By the way, the number of people who fall into this category is now roughly 200,000, which is where they crossed the Hungarian border illegally, and they will be sent back here. In this sense, too, the numbers have changed: the behaviour of the European Member States has changed, the number of decisions issued by the German authorities in the so-called deportation case was roughly a thousand last year, so that the German authorities do not judge the asylum application in substance, but examine where it entered the European Union and say - quite legally - that it should be returned there, because the procedure must be carried out there. Strangely, the German authorities or the Austrians or the Dutch authorities are not entitled to assess the asylum application, because it must be assessed by the Hungarian authorities in accordance with the Dublin Conventions. But while last year the number of these was only under a thousand, until this day only the German authorities indicated 14 thousand such decisions and said that they would send these people back to Hungary by bus, plane and in any case. It's clear as day that it's a pressure to act on. And it's not just that it costs a lot, because let's calculate if the average administration time is 15 days instead of 30 days - because 30 days is the normal procedure - and only 100 thousand out of 200,000 people are sent back, so only half of it is what it costs to spend 4300 forints on a refugee with one day's benefits. But the bigger problem is that Hungary is trapped: the Serbian authorities have indicated - and there is a treaty between the two governments - that they are able to take back 30 refugees a day, nothing more will be taken back by the Serbs if we want to deport illegal immigrants who have already crossed the Hungarian border and are in Hungarian territory. If we look at it, that means that, by the way, if we try to speed things up, we're gonna get to the bottom of this in 12 years if no one comes tomorrow. And by the way, there were 514 people illegally crossing the Hungarian border yesterday, 482 the day before yesterday. So, while the average entry is 500 people, the Serbs can take back 30 in the traditional, current procedural framework. It's clear as day that it's untenable, and there's nothing we can do about it. And I'm not even talking about the side effects of the whole refugee problem, threatening me - as a representative in Debrecen - from public health problems to crime and terrorist threats, really, these questions are unanswered. It is not that illegal immigrants would be criminals in the vast majority of them, because they are not, but there is no doubt that they also come from areas where terrorists and ordinary criminals - and this is again a fact - lie down among illegal immigrants. It is also clear that we do not yet know a successful, reassuring model of integration, which has been declared by the European countries themselves. The last and perhaps the most important sentence was said by Angela Merkel, when he declared as German Chancellor that the multicultural model had failed in Germany and across Europe, the rules on illegal border crossings had to be changed. Not to mention the right and duty of every country to determine the rules under which people are allowed into its territory. Hungary is an open, welcoming, safe country. This is proven by the fact that we welcome a similar number of guests with the Hungarian population, who are enjoying themselves, are happy to come here, study here, work here or just tourists. But these people follow our rules. They do not enter the Hungarian territory illegally, on the green border or through smugglers, but they have documents, documents, they are welcome, anyone is welcome. But these people are illegal border crossings, they do not follow any rules, they go further from the country, and they do not cooperate with the majority of the Hungarian authorities. So the position of these people is completely different. Illegal immigrants should not be confused with foreigners who are legally resident in Hungary. It is clear that the Dutch pensioner who bought a small house in the Balaton Uplands and lives there, by the way, should not be confused with the illegal immigrant. As it is clear from the outset that it is a complete mistake to identify Hungarians who live in other European countries for a shorter or longer period of time using their rights as emigrants. Moreover, this does not necessarily relate to GDP or income, the facts show that the largest number of workers in other European countries comes from Germany. So German citizens live and work in the largest number of other European countries, although Germany is one of the richest European countries, by the way. So I think that it is to be rejected and, in any case, to be criticised if someone compares illegal immigrants with the situation of the Hungarians or European citizens who make use of their rights in Europe. We remember, my fellow Members: you can also study at the Sorbonne, said László Kovács; you can also open the Mariahilferen cafe - not as an illegal immigrant, alive with European rights. And that is why we are not saying that Europe's borders must be closed, because Europe must continue to be an open, welcoming continent, only everyone must comply with the rules that apply to them. If you come to Europe as a tourist or even to work, you may need to ask for a work permit, get a visa and follow the rules. However, before illegal immigration, we must close the borders, not just for us, for Europe as a whole, because we cannot handle this, it will disrupt European civilisation, culture, economy, everything, social care systems. [[9.30]] These people can be helped - not here, in their own country. Let's organize programs for this. We're in favor. But we reject this illegal immigration. I would ask the honourable Members to put aside their ideological considerations and to support the Hungarian government's ability to designate a safe third country for Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Tamás Harangozó, will be speaking. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If something is clearer than the sun, my honourable Member Kósa, then this bill will make it even clearer that you are completely unfit to govern this country. This essentially three-word amendment, which they managed to produce in five months with Antal Rogán, these three words in five months, obviously will not solve anything but the continuation of the lousy propaganda of the last few months. You are unable or unwilling to handle this wave of refugees, honourable Member. Antal Rogán spoke here for a long time about how immigration is handled in Germany, France, Austria, Italy, where it is indeed a huge problem every day. Interestingly, we did not hear very well proposals for solutions and sound ideas about what to do here in Hungary. Antal Rogán wasn't telling the truth about a lot of things, and I have to point that out first before I say our own opinion. Antal Rogán wasn't telling the truth, and Lajos Kósa is not telling the truth for many times when he talks about the government's lack of resources and is constantly referring to vague regulation in 2012. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. According to the laws in force today, the Hungarian authorities would have an opportunity and even an obligation to take the steps that guarantee the safety of Hungarian people in Hungary. Why don't you, Mr. Kosha? According to the current texts in force, who enters our country without papers or certificates, he may or must be detained until the asylum procedure is completed. Under the rules in force today, who leaves reception centres, open reception centres without permission, it must be detained. Mr. Secretary, why aren't the police doing their job? Why not? ! Lajos Kósa, who is now leaving the room [[Lajos Kósa: I'm not leaving, I'm plugging in my phone.]] You could answer why immigration and the situation of immigrants in Debrecen is such a problem. Mr. Kósa, according to the laws in force today, who does not comply with the rules of the game in this country, it must be detained and taken into custody if you wish to interfere with the procedure or, once again, leave the reception centre without permission. How many were taken into custody, Mr. Secretary? Obviously none, since Mr Kósa himself admitted that on average they stay here for three days in Hungarian, they do not wait for the procedure, and the Hungarian government, the Hungarian authorities, continue to assist. Oh, the Germans and the Austrians are pissed off, I get it, Mr. Secretary and Congressman. But maybe that's what we should be dealing with, not starting a poster campaign. Antal Rogán is not telling the truth either, and what Mr Secretary of State said was shocking that the list of safe countries will be defined here under the bill, because this means that everyone can be turned back at the border. In today's Hungarian laws, Mr. State Secretary, that is not the case. And you're simply lying to people in this case. One: the list of safe countries of origin has been included in the law since 2007, the mandate, this list has not been made by the government to this day. There's no such government decree. Why not, Mr. Kósa? What have you been doing in the last five months or the last two or three years since you've seen this problem? This is now complemented by the possibility of making a list of safe third countries. That's great. So what's gonna change? In accordance with the law, and in this you are perverting or telling lies, Mr. Secretary of State, or speaking out of ignorance, or knowingly, I think that the latter is even worse, that each applicant should be given an individual opportunity under Hungarian law to prove himself that the country he came from or the country he came through did not give him protection. In this case, Hungary must continue to accept these people. This law that's in front of Parliament isn't about what you're talking about. Finally, he says, Mr State Secretary, and Mr Rogán has also said a lot that Greece and Bulgaria have much more to do, and so many of the people who arrive here cross the European continent through Bulgaria or Greece. Then how is it that you are talking about driving the Hungarians back from Austria and Germany, while you admit to coming from another EU country? Then what does Hungary do? What are the Hungarian authorities doing, Mr. Secretary, in this case? [[István Szilárd Németh: He is talking nonsense. Amazing!]] By not understanding, my fellow Member, I am fully aware. But I'm gonna go through with it. [[István Szilárd Németh: Lies are hard to understand. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that you are unable or unwilling to handle this wave of refugees makes it clear that the 2016 budget, the budget before the Hungarian Parliament, is clearer than the day. While you are conducting a national consultation for 1.3 billion forints and starting a billboard campaign in Hungarian, so that all immigrants understand what you are talking about, you will provide 50 million HUF plus budget resources to the Immigration Office to manage the refugee wave next year. An organisation with an annual budget of HUF 9 billion is now well added to this budget at HUF 50 million. It's obvious that all they're doing is either incompetence or lies. And you'll be able to hire 31 new associates to the organization that's supposed to handle hundreds of thousands of people in this country. I think we should not forget how the government hate campaign has been escalated in recent times. Orbán began with a statement from Viktor Orbán after the Paris assassination, with a tasteless declaration when, after a terrorist act, the campaign against illegal immigrants was launched by Viktor Orbán. Then, at the extraordinary meeting of the Defence and Police Committee in January, we were first informed of the problem in Hungary. There, we made it clear that without budgetary support and restructuring of the bodies responsible for this, the matter is likely to be unmanageable. To this day, nothing has happened on this issue. Then Antal Rogán mixed regularly at the Keleti Railway Station, which was also past, and interestingly, people somehow disappeared from the Keleti Railway Station, only there when Rogán Antal was holding a press conference. But I'm sure the problem was that you couldn't find your money-changer colleague there, so you basically don't have to go there anymore. Then there was an immigration debate day, my fellow Members, not so long ago. Mr Kósa, what has been the consistency of immigration debate in recent months? What kind of government actions have been carried out? What law did Parliament discuss? Obviously nothing. And finally, their nation consultation campaign of public hatred came. Six months of government propaganda, without any meaningful government action. After six months, you could only afford a three-word amendment. Even though dealing with the refugee wave is a real challenge, yes, and it would require genuine government action, which we already said in January. One: we need a common European solution. You yourself have admitted in the keynote speech and in the government's comments that this issue cannot be resolved at nation state level, because it is physically impossible. In comparison, Viktor Orbán and his government are not the engines of any common European solution. In the meantime, it would be up to the government to guarantee the safety of Hungarian people and the fundamental human rights of asylum seekers arriving here, in compliance with the laws in force. We said that at the end of January. Instead of taking decisive government steps, all we've heard since then is propaganda. In January, we also drew attention to the fact that Hungary is indeed facing a serious migration crisis, but on the contrary, it is not immigration, but on the contrary, it is called the ever-increasing emigration, and it is a real national destiny to curb it. Obviously, it is a simple propaganda action to scare him with the threat of mass immigration, while the Hungarian people born here, who are connected to their home country, leave this country by hundreds of thousands. In fact, the people you now call a living immigrant do not want to work in Hungary either. It is a typical figure that while 21 thousand Kosovo asylum applications were made in Hungary in 2014, the number of Kosovo workers in the same year decreased by 25 percent and the number of new work permits issued by 70 percent. Because what kind of living immigrant would want to settle in Hungary right now, where more than 200,000 public workers are robots for a monthly salary of HUF 51,000, where the minimum wage does not reach the minimum wage according to the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. [[9.40]] I hold in my hand the report by the National Employment Service on the main features of the employment of foreign citizens in Hungary in 2014, which confirms with each and every number that what you are doing here on this issue is a simple lie and propaganda. There is no realistic basis for the campaign of hate against living immigrants. The only reason Fidesz has been in a popularity-loss spiral since the fall ban scandal, and as the Habony third-class Goebbels impersonator, he came up with this is to try to keep your government popularity on a level. But there's no mention of millions of people in this country slaving for food while Fidesz buddies steal public money home. It's not like there's chaos in health and education either. It is also not that in recent months one of the biggest financial frauds of all time has taken place in front of the Hungarian National Bank and the Hungarian government; to date, we do not know whether or not it is possible to assist. Orbán's favourite gas mechanic is also building a small railway in Hungary for 600 million, while tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of children are starving. With this xenophobic campaign, Viktor Orbán joined another stage in the fight for freedom against European and fundamental human values. What Viktor Orbán is doing together with several other right-wing politicians in Western Europe, and I am talking about the issues of principle here, is destroying the European Union. If you succeed, the end of the process will not be what you expect, my fellow Members, but a closer one that we already see and what you have referred to, the sane European Union, which has learned from the mistakes and even from the tragedy of the Second World War, with the seed countries, which will work quickly, effectively and guarantee the safety and well-being of their citizens, and we can go on track C7, and once again Hungary will be able to chant to become a member of this community. This is the way that Viktor Orbán is taking this country today. However, we do not wish to go with you on this trip. If you really want to deal with the management of the refugee wave, Mr Kósa, if you want to stop the emigration of Hungary, and you want to involve or involve the opposition in this important national issue, once you get your sense of reason, you can count on MSZP in this work. However, we do not assist in the use of the refugee wave as part of a political campaign to raise xenophobia. What you're doing on this case today is shameful. This bill is therefore no more than another element of this propaganda campaign in this form, so we do not wish to participate in its further debate and voting. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I would like to stress that if you wish to talk about a substantive proposal for a solution, if you have any real proposals on the real steps to be taken by the joint European government or the Hungarian Parliament in this matter, then the door of the MSZP is open to you, we would be very happy to sit down with you even for the safety of the Hungarian people. But to be clear, that's not what's going on here today. We no longer wish to participate in the debate. And to my fellow Members, who are fidesz and better-looking, we wish you a pleasant frenzy for further debate. Thank you so much for listening. [[Adam Mirkóczki: How do you know what we want to say? Károly Kontra: Stay, don't go! On the laptops of MSZP representatives are the following inscriptions: Poverty. Emigration. Corruption. Chaos in education. Chaos in health care.]]
u2015-06-17-38	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey... We'll wait for the MSZP fraction to leave the Parliamentary Hall. [[MSZP representatives are leaving the meeting room.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-39	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian law enforcement authorities stopped more than 1,500 illegal immigrants from crossing the southern borders of Hungary last weekend. From 1 January 2015 until 16 June 2015, immigrants have already submitted 56 319 asylum applications in Hungary. The number of immigrants may exceed 120,000 by the end of 2015. [[The staff of the Space Safety Service will remove the lid of the MSZP laptops.]] On the other hand, immigration data for previous years developed as follows: 2100 in 2012, 18 thousand in 2013 and 42 500 in 2014, last year. These facts mean that the number of immigrants in Hungary has increased by some 40 times since 2012, i.e. in just three years. The problem therefore exists factually, and it follows that EU rules are inadequate to deal with the tsunami of immigration; urgent measures are needed. In order to assess the responses to the problem as soon as possible, the government initiated a national consultation. The majority of opposition parties want to solve the demographic problem with immigrants, but the majority of Hungarian families do not share the views of these parties. Ladies and Gentlemen, The European Union's Home Affairs Ministers met in Luxembourg on immigration the other day. The meeting was preceded by tremendous anticipation, as the whole European public would have expected them to solve the refugee crisis, or at least take the steps that would have led to it. However, as far as we know, the only thing that has happened is that six EU Member States have supported the European Commission's quota system unchanged for the reception of refugees, so they are not expected to be able to decide on the draft. Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungarian border police are doing an excellent job, which is also demonstrated by the fact that 98 percent of illegal border crossings are caught. And now let's look at what happens to illegal immigrants following their capture on the basis of the current EU rules and the existing Hungarian legislation. Under the rules currently in force, law enforcement authorities collect identification data on illegal immigrants and then send them to open reception centres. However, under Hungarian law until 2012, less than 1 percent of refugees were eligible for asylum, while the rest were sent back by Hungarian law enforcement authorities, according to EU legislation, to the country where they entered the EU and the country that had to ensure their resettlement. So far, the number of refugees between 160 and 200 thousand who are in different countries of the Union, but the Hungarian authorities have taken their data. Ladies and Gentlemen, The majority of refugees are no longer from Kosovo, but mainly from the Middle East and North Africa. Given the international situation, no reduction in refugee pressure is expected in the near future, but rather its exponential further increase. Based on data from international organisations, between 1.5 and 2 million people from India, Pakistan and Afghanistan are also on their way to Europe. In Turkey, there are over 2 million refugees who would also continue their journey to Europe, and in addition, in Libya alone there are more than 500,000 people waiting to sail. Ladies and Gentlemen, In Hungary, the number of refugees in the EU is the second largest in terms of population and GDP. The Serbian authorities currently have an agreement in place that only 30 refugees will be reinstated daily, so resettlement would take 14 years, while Hungary should take care of the refugees. [[9.50]] Meanwhile, the German and Austrian authorities significantly accelerated the return of refugees to Hungary: in 2013 the German authorities issued 800 such orders, and in the first five months of this year nearly 14 thousand. We must be prepared to see this phenomenon only escalate, while the provision of refugees is already an extraordinary problem for our country. Ladies and Gentlemen, Until 2012, there was no refugee pressure in Hungary, because illegal border crossings could be detained by Hungarian law enforcement agencies, and they were not released until the proceedings were completed. This secure procedure has been attacked by the European Union, and this legal opportunity of our country has been abolished because of EU infringement procedures. The financing of illegal border crossings cost nearly one billion HUF in the first half of 2015 to the Hungarian police and thus Hungarian citizens, who also cost 4300 HUF per day their special care. In view of the above, legislative changes related to illegal immigration should be adopted during the summer, as a new wave of refugees is expected by summer, and a significant number of refugees from Austria will also be relocated in July, and Austrian and German rules will be tightened. The majority of immigrants crossing the green border come from a country of safe origin and yet try to abuse refugee status. T/5136 is used to prevent this from happening. by providing the possibility for the authorities not only to examine the country of origin of the applicant but also to examine what the transit country was. Ladies and Gentlemen, The basis for asylum as a legal institution is governed by the 1951 Geneva Convention and the 1967 Additional Protocol on the International Protection of Persons Leaving Their Country on the Cause of Persecution due to Racism, Nationality, Political, Religious or Certain Social Groups. The essence of the Geneva Convention is that the participating Member States provide asylum to those who were forced to leave their own country for the above reasons. The Geneva Convention is also the basis for the EU asylum system. Each Member State is party to the Geneva Convention and the EU Directives are defined in accordance with the Geneva Convention. Article 33 of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection sets out the scope of unacceptable applications. According to this, the application of the legal institution for inadmissible applications is essential for the application of the law of the public authority because it is possible to filter out applications which the asylum authorities do not have to deal with in substance, i.e. the return of the applicant can be achieved within a short period of time. Among the cases of inadequacy, a safe third country is worth highlighting. Member States may apply the principle of a safe third country only if the competent authorities are satisfied that the life and freedom of the asylum seeker is not at risk because of racial, religious, nationality or membership of a social group or political conviction in the third country concerned, i.e. would not be subject to the same persecution as that which he has fled and is granted refugee status if conditions exist. Member States shall apply the legal institution individually or on the basis of a list, which shall be determined on the basis of the criteria set out in the Directive. The safe list of third countries therefore provides for a presumption only in respect of countries meeting the general conditions, whereby the burden of proof is reversed: the applicant must assume that the country is not safe for him because, for example, he has not been given the opportunity to lodge an asylum application or to obtain a refugee status. However, the presumption can be overturned both by the client and by the court which reviewed the decision based on it. The decision on the presumption is not aimed at the general conditions or the list, but at whether it is applicable to the specific applicant where appropriate. Ladies and Gentlemen, The aim pursued by the bill is to ensure that those who come from a safe transit country to Hungary cannot seek political asylum. Please support T/5136 on the modification of asylum. Bill No. 1! The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Charles Kontra applauds.]]
u2015-06-17-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki. Before you begin speaking, I would like to tell the House that, at the request of the Jobbik Group, two speakers will present the group's position; first, Mr Adam Mirkóczki. Here you go.
u2015-06-17-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is no doubt that it is time to talk about this, and it should have been dealt with in such a way much sooner, but I would also briefly summarise our overall approach to this whole immigration problem. I would like to stress that it is no coincidence that we have already voiced this phenomenon in the middle of the previous cycle, and we have already drawn attention to the fact that this is only a matter of months or years or more, and we are dealing with a very serious social phenomenon. I would also like to stress that Jobbik never viewed refugees as criminals. We have always said that we should split up the group of illegal migrants, see who actually comes from a war zone, who are politically persecuted, whether for their religion, origin or other reasons. We have to help them, it's very clear, it's a moral, moral duty. And we do not necessarily have to deal with all the others the way the European Union wants us to, or how some liberal circles would treat them. I would also like to stress here that, in our view, these people do not want to take the work away from others at all in Hungary, but they want to use only the social care system, if they cannot go on, because Hungary is currently a transit country, we are not the destination country; this may be our only luck, and that is why we still have time to take action against it. As soon as Western Europe escapes, and the countries of Western Europe take off the restrictions that they have already started and are planning, at that moment Hungary's role will be appreciated, instead of transit, we will be a country of destination, and if we do not take the important measures, it will come to us and it will be too late. What is important to say is that we are thinking in a triple pillar of what can be a solution to this whole problem. The first thing we say from the beginning is that refugee camps are closed. There is no question why this is a problem: it is not normal that people coming from anywhere in the world, without papers, without documents, with no identification of any kind, with unknown backgrounds - we do not know whether they are criminals or not, they belong to circles that may or may not be a potential threat to Hungarian society - they live as if they were university students and could crawl in and out of any settlement and in any area of the country. [[10.00]] This cannot be done, but only citizens living in refugee camps should be asked about it. The second - and perhaps here we have an issue with the government - is the restoration of the border guard. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Hungary is the only EU Member State with a Schengen border, but does not have an independent border guard. Hungary is the only one. And I do not think that all the other Member States of the European Union, who have the Schengen border, and the defence, the police and, where appropriate, the police, have border guards, would be a coincidence. It's not a coincidence. In the same way, it is no coincidence that we should not confuse this, that we do not want the units currently operating within the police to be renamed as border guards, and this is done because we know precisely that a border guard operates with completely different licenses, completely different equipment, completely different training. We would like Hungary not to be the only one, but to join that line, like all the other EU Member States who have border guards and restore all this. The third pillar concerns reversibility. If we cannot reverse those people who are clearly arriving in Hungary as non-political persecuted among illegal migrants, we will not know what to do with this in the long term. The fact that it is a pan-European problem is without doubt. However, we question the fact that there is a pan-European solution to this. We don't think so. The problem is completely different in the southern, eastern, western, northern or internal Member States of the European Union. This cannot be treated uniformly. The only option here is to return the options to Member States and to address them in a way that meets their challenges. And, of course, there are global solutions. This is not a question, but this is probably not going to be resolved by Hungary; I would add that there are countries in the European Union and there are countries in the world who are largely, if not exclusively, responsible for the crises that have been caused in some regions, whether in Africa or in the Middle East, and why there is a surge of refugees in the millions from there. It would be nice if we could talk about this on the international stage. I think that it is possible to copy here, to make an internal political issue for some political parties, or to make an actual political issue of this issue, the fact is that we are not going to solve it. The problem is that, if we do not speak frankly and look at the real opportunities, this flood of refugees will continue, and the problems will not only occur in a physical sense, but also in the social sphere, the economic sphere and social disparities, and social tensions. I do not want to go into it now - it would also be worth a special debate - whether the Hungarian authorities can or can do all that comes from international terrorism, so if we talk only about 500 immigrants a day, whose origin we do not know, their origin, we do not know their background, how the Constitutional Protection Office, the Information Office or even the Counter-Terrorism Centre will be able to trace whether they can be linked to a circle of terrorism in any country of Europe or here in Hungary. Those who, I think of the left-wing faction that has already gone out to God, are unable to understand the potential danger that this entails, are not intact, are not all four wheels, and should not be allowed to work at any level in Hungarian public life. Then, of course, I'll give you the floor now, and we'll continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the other lead speaker from the Jobbik Group. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2015-06-17-43	Mr President, Dear House, It is true that in Hungary there is a social crisis affecting the country, an amazing emigration spiral, at the heart of public interest. At the same time, I believe that those who do not participate in a debate on immigration, asylum, and pretend that this problem does not affect Europe, including Hungary in the heart of Europe, in the long term. It can be seen, then, that when the forces who at the time were alarmed by 23 million Romanian workers who, in connection with our own brothers who had been separated from Transylvania or another part, claimed that they would take away their pensions and take away their work in Hungary, the same forces would, in parallel with the withdrawal - and some liberal groups associated with them - indeed, they are in favour of receiving social housing for refugees, immigrants and their right to vote. All of this in a conditional way, of course, because the range of concrete proposals here is very wide, but the double standard is amazing, and the projection of double standards is ignominious, while the situation of our cross-border Hungarian brothers is obviously not comparable to the amazing refugee tsunami that reaches Hungary. How much the situation has changed, we must note that at the beginning of the year Kosovo Albanians made up the surplus who, in a huge flood, approached Hungary's defenseless borders. Because at the border crossing point, there's some sort of inspection, and it's fair, let's just say. At the same time, on the green border, the one who wants to march into the territory of the Union is the one who marches in, and we can say that there are also supposed to be interesting backgrounds for the spread of the Albanians in Kosovo that Austria, Germany, is tightening up its social system, which is why the family's apraja-grandmother, with children, whole rows and whole streets, are on the way to destroy the blessings of European social systems. Not to take the jobs! In Austria, it is not possible to assume at systemic level that Albanians in Kosovo occupy a mass of jobs and jobs, fortunately not in Hungary either. Thus, the government's justification is fraudulent. These people - respect for the exception - come to Europe primarily for the purpose of living on the social system, in order to achieve blessings and achievements that they could not achieve at home. They do not necessarily need to be condemned, because they come from very strange and interesting circumstances and conditions, but they do need to be seen that they are not primarily intended to take jobs. At the same time, we also see that while the Kosovo Albanians are primarily targeted by Austria, mainly Germany, the arrivals have been reorganised in recent weeks and months. We can say that for a Black-African crisis zone, it doesn't really matter that it is being deployed in Brussels or Hungary, because the conditions here can also mean an earthly paradise compared to where it came from, and I wish it didn't. I wish there weren't so many crooks in the world where people have to live in such unworthy conditions. But you can see that there is a double press in Europe, including Hungary. One of the faces of the press is the amazing asymmetry of population asymmetries, which means that Europe is going through continuous elimination, and Africa is generating a surplus over the coming decades, which, if only 10 percent of it is moving towards Europe, we have to face ongoing and permanent problems, and to do so we need to tighten the rules and extend self-defense at all costs. On the other side of the press, it is clear, however, that some of the EU Member States, or the crisis blokes caused by the United States, are constantly pumping the flood that reaches Europe, constantly pumping the mass that is not expected to calm down: Libya, Syria, is also one to one million people living in camp-like institutions from which they are waiting for one thing: to move towards Europe or anywhere. At the same time, it can be said that Serbia is not much more difficult to approach from the sea than Italy is. And it can also be seen that if border surveillance from the Serbian side is not tightened, it is practically the person who marches into Hungary. Therefore, reversibility is a primary aspect that Jobbik has been stressing for years, precisely so that, as we perceive this problem, something of this will be transferred into the sphere of action. The return of the border guard, the independent border guard, has already been mentioned, whose system of means and possibilities for action are significantly wider than what a unit within the police department, if not a subunit, can carry out, but virtually a separate class. [[10.10]] And when Jobbik presented in the budget debate an amendment which would not have set up an independent border guard - because we saw that the government was not open to this idea in this budget year - but would have strengthened border surveillance by very serious billions, what then happened? We couldn't count on the Fidesz-KDNP vote. And when we asked him why that was, they said there was a lot of money in the reserve, and then we transferred it from the reserve if we had to. But when would you need it if not now? Half a thousand people arrive every day across the border, but at the same time the budget support of the Immigration and Nationality Office is reduced by HUF 323 million according to our last information. So, in the midst of the refugee tsunami, when the tasks are obviously exponential, multiplied, the budget mass is not seen behind this, but it could still be interfered. At the same time, we need concrete answers to what Viktor Orbán promised in Debrecen, for example, that the refugee hostel there will be closed without endangering the everyday safety of the civilian population. On this point, Secretary of State Kontra was in a difficult situation, because he could not set a specific date or a specific method, as there was also a statement here, which was not preceded by proper professional preparation. Similarly, in the case of a physical or other border closure, we are afraid that there will be a sound announcement, but at the same time there will not be enough solution in the field of action to guarantee the lives, objective and subjective security and security of the inhabitants of Hungary. To give one example: if you really put a border lock and put in place powerful police forces, who will protect the empty Hungarian villages and cities? It is therefore questionable how effectively the government is able to act in the absence of resources and numbers in the case of police officers who are otherwise fair, partly border guards. The point of such a debate is, in our view, to find answers to these professional questions. In addition, it would be good to see something from the long-term vision of the government in terms of reducing the amazing flow of refugees, as this country will be in danger by merely following it for decades. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-17-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We are talking about a crisis, but this crisis is not a Hungarian crisis, it is a European crisis. And in relation to this, both Hungary and the Hungarian Parliament should have a responsible, moderate debate; therefore, immigration policy is dangerous if any party policy hysteria is the subject of any kind of hysteria. We do not think it possible to take the path that every nation state is taking its own path with regard to immigration policy today, Mr Orbán said in 2007 and, of course, we fully agree with Viktor Orbán in 2007. It is worth recalling what the second Orbán government decision adopted in 2013 contains. The current government said that, despite the fact that the proportion of foreigners to total population has shown a steady increase over the last three decades, it is likely that migration to Hungary in the target country will not increase significantly in the period 2014-20. It is also necessary to stimulate the country for economic and demographic reasons, with the pursuit of a job and the number and scope of travelers for knowledge-based migration, but it is essential that security aspects are enhanced. It is necessary to make better use of the opportunities for economic development of migration by adopting third-country migrants who contribute to economic development through their investments, their job creation investments, and so on, said the Government's decision to launch the poster campaign. It is also worth recalling that you opened this debate after the Charlie Hebdo assassination in January this year. We also said that mixing immigration policy with the fight against terrorism is dangerous. And we also said that, as with regard to the fight against terrorism, we also need a deeper European integration in terms of asylum, immigration policy. We have an argument with our better fellow Members that immigration policy is precisely the case where, if all the nation states go their own way, the shorter will again be drawn by the countries of periphery, such as Hungary. It is in Hungary's primary national interest to have a deeper European integration in terms of immigration, precisely in order to avoid a stronger dog principle within Europe as regards immigration policy. That is why we are debating what Adam Mirkóczki has just said here: if there is no close European cooperation on immigration policy, one of the number one losers of this could be Hungary. That is why we believe that we cannot allow certain Member States of the European Union, such as Hungary, to be particularly affected by an extraordinary phenomenon, to be ignored by the European Union, and that is why we must have a single European solution that redistributes the economic pressures of arriving migrants. This is what the quota system aims at. It is quite simply that European countries do not have the resources that can be used effectively in the area of immigration policy separately, and the geographical situation of the different EU Member States is quite different. So exactly what Adam Mirkóczki has just said is that the different situation in the EU Member States is underlining why it is in our primary interest to have more and stronger European cooperation on immigration policy. When Fidesz put immigration policy at the top of the political agenda in January, it did so by trying to manipulate it with demagogic, instigating fear of terrorism. If and if the fears with which the government side manipulated me in January and what their poster campaign broadcasts were true, then it is completely incomprehensible why the aspects of Kurdistan's military engagement were ignored. For if the risks and fears that you openly or openly suggest are true, then this should not be taken into account at the expense of the responsible representation of immigration policy, but should have been considered when we protected Hungary from entering into an invisible military adventure. What doesn't work is that, on the one hand, the government is inciting me in the country and not threatening me with a terrorist threat, and on the other hand, it's taking on an increasing security risk that it shouldn't otherwise be taking on. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is unacceptable to the LMP. This bill simply breaks up with the specific nature of asylum. The whole point of asylum is to leave the possibility of individual consideration open. I will also tell my fellow Member Z. Carpathian why this is not good. It is not good - as the 2012 opinion of the Curia points out - because it is possible that if this bill is passed by the Parliament with Fidesz-Better vote, the government will issue a government decree in which it considers Serbia to be a safe third country, say Serbia. Compared to Curia 12th. The opinion of the college includes the following: the overload of a third country's asylum system may result from the impossibility of granting asylum seekers' rights in this country. Such a third country cannot be considered safe from a refugee point of view. Moreover, in Germany, there is also a case in which the Münster Administrative Court specifically stopped the case of a family to be sent back to Serbia, simply because, in the specific case, Serbia was not a safe third country. However, several studies underline that, for example, there are Roma families who are not safe third countries for whom Serbia is also not a safe third country due to serious discrimination against the Roma. The whole point of this story is that if you deprive or essentially deprive individual asylum seekers of their individual situation, their particular situation and how this is related to the practice, legal system of a third country, you should consider it, that is precisely the meaning of asylum. [[10.20]] In addition, the problem has not been solved, because there are a lot of loopholes, because let's think about when, say, migrants destroy their travel documents, let's think, let's say, the different smuggling gangs will adapt to the new circumstances and implement their different plans. It should be noted that the elimination of smuggling gangs is one of the reasons why closer European cooperation is needed with regard to domestic security and immigration policy. So, once again, a legal solution that excludes the possibility of individual consideration ignores precisely the aspects which, by the way, also gave birth to the Geneva Convention itself, and which at the time gave rise to asylum as an institution in accordance with Article XX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It was set up in the first century. I would also like to say that while, on average, 35 percent of asylum applications in the European Union are subject to a positive assessment, in Hungary the proportion of asylum applications that have been tested positive in recent years has been 8-9 percent. It takes 3-6 months to finalise under the current rules, so without the current amendment of the law, an asylum application procedure, an asylum procedure, these 3-6 months are one of the fastest within the European Union until final completion. It is also worth noting that until the detention practice was more relaxed between 2007 and 2009, 2-4 thousand asylum seekers arrived in 2014, when detention practices were tightened up, 43 thousand. This is interesting because it is not true that tightening up will, in itself, alert asylum seekers. The numbers don't prove that. It should also be said that the integration tools that can help the foundation to integrate asylum seekers into Hungarian society, if you like, to accept Hungarian culture, these integration tools have been decaying for years. It is necessary to look at the tools in refugee camps, for example, to teach the Hungarian language and the Hungarian culture of the people there, the people who seek refuge there. Dear Parliament, Of course, we are aware that the meaning of integration in the European context cannot clearly mean that EU countries or Europe are giving up their own culture. Obviously, it is not possible to agree with the excesses where, say, in Brussels, the claim of the Christmas tree is prevented. However, we also need to see that there is a country, namely Germany, that has actually used integration tools that are suitable for the peaceful coexistence of different cultures. While the situation is serious, it is serious throughout Europe, and that is why we need a pan-European solution, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself urged in 2007, we continue to say that migration is a bigger problem than immigration on the basis of figures in Hungary today. And it is very interesting what resources the Hungarian government is moving against immigration and what resources it is moving to keep young people unable to achieve their creative abilities at home at home. When we talk about emigration and immigration at the same time, it should also be stressed that the roots of the two are very similar somewhere. The point is that, when we look at the global context, Hungary is both suffering from global imbalances, imbalances within Europe, and we are at the same time a party to global imbalances and are the cause of global imbalances. It is not just a refugee crisis today, say in the Balkans, but the Kosovo state has collapsed. When Kosovo's independence became a reality, it must be seen what economic policy has been imposed on Kosovo by the various European American powers. The point is that as long as half of the world's GDP is enjoyed by 1 percent of the world's population, these problems, refugee crises, will continue to grow again. Therefore, I, contrary to what the right-wing colleagues have said here, cannot reconcile with the fact that Hungary is small and that we have no influence on the processes in the world. With a responsible foreign policy and a responsible international development policy, Hungary does have the means to live in a Europe where global imbalances are reduced, where they are not trying to acquire so-called territories by war and by boosting the military industry. Dear Parliament, We need to see that as long as global imbalances are strengthened, while exploitation continues to grow against some regions of the world, the refugee crisis will continue to grow. We also need to see that this crisis has also occurred in Europe because the neoliberal economic policy in Europe has resulted in wage cuts being kept down. Therefore, it was also in the interests of raising Germany, where appropriate, to bring in as cheap a workforce as possible. Therefore, until we can stop downward price and wage competition in Europe, these crises in Europe will also continue to grow again. It should also be seen that, when the manufacturing industry has been leaving the European continent for decades, Europe will also be placed under pressure that will strengthen this spiral. And we also need to see that there is a global injustice, because the sources of the refugee crisis are largely states that have been colonised by the great powers of Europe for a long time. It should also be seen that the development of a European welfare state after 1945 was largely at the expense of these areas and the exploitation of the labour force emitted from it. As long as Europe does not face this, there will be no fundamental solution. LMP urges us not to treat the symptoms, but to try to solve the root problem itself. This is why Hungary's role in solving these international problems is shameful. I think that, while the Hungarian budget had spent 150 million forints on international development policy, this fell to 23 million forints last year, and now it is further reduced to 14 million forints in the current budget. So words and actions are separated. On Monday, Péter Harrach himself claimed that a global problem, global balance, is the cause of this crisis. Meanwhile, Hungary shamelessly reduces its responsibility [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] in the resolution of the international crisis, international development resources have been squashed. That's what a responsible government should face. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2015-06-17-47	Thank you very much. Dear House, In the last two years, Europe and the whole world have been facing the biggest refugee crisis since World War II. Millions of women, men, and children are forced to leave their homes, basically fleeing wars. Only 4 million people fled Syria, mostly in Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, and Egypt. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the European Union are running out of resources, and the rules so far are basically no way to cope with such a large and new refugee flood at global level. Clearly, there is a serious problem facing Europe and the situation requires a very thorough and rapid rethink. At this point, I would like to avert a very important misconception and deception. In Hungary, the 57 thousand people who came in and requested refugee status are mostly Syrian, Iraqi, and Afghan refugees. Since mid-March, no people have come from Kosovo to Hungary. All those who confuse immigrants and refugees lie. It's a question of what you can do in this situation. The government, as others have already quoted, in 2013, only two years ago held that refugees and foreigners in Hungary who are long-term residents should enjoy international protection. This is also included in the Hungarian Constitution for a reason. It is included because the reception of refugees and refugees is a fundamental humane aspect, which is why there are international laws, international conventions, and that is why it is also included in the Hungarian Constitution. The conflict in the Middle East and the resulting migration wave must not be resolved by Hungary. [[10.30]] The refugee crisis is essentially the responsibility of the international community, there is no country, not even Hungary, which can solve this problem alone. Anyone who talks about it is misleading everyone. The international community has to deal with this problem; the European Union and even more global, larger international organisations. Therefore, the proposal before us is cynical and promises something that it cannot otherwise keep. It serves only to prepare the ground for Hungary's expulsion of refugees. The government can recognise Serbia as a safe country, but it does not make Serbia a safe country. Refugees are in danger because there is no institutional system in Serbia that can protect them. Therefore, refugees in Serbia are in danger. Hungary can draw a line, but Serbia will not be a safe country. It can set a limit, but Hungary will still have to let the refugees in, in accordance with the rules of humanity, who will be holding on and clinging to your borders. These solutions don't lead to anything. They act as if they are benefiting from something, you refer to national interests, but simply this task cannot be solved by the Hungarian Government with any simple and quick proposal. There are a number of EU debates on what can be done. Sándor Pintér is currently negotiating in Brussels, there will be a Council of Foreign Ministers, and there will soon be a summit of prime ministers on this issue. The task of Viktor Orbán, Péter Szijjártó and Sándor Pintér, together with European partners, is to figure out what to do in such a crisis situation. For others, other European countries, have the same problem as we do. First and foremost, refugees must be saved. Their lives must be saved. Serbia and the Mediterranean. The second task is to prepare countries outside the EU, such as Serbia, to be able to receive refugees and provide them with fair protection, to combat human smugglers, and, of course, the European Union must take in more refugees than it has been before, as there are many more refugees in the world. There are four million people from Syria, 3.5 million of them are in the neighbouring countries. Those who come to Europe are only a fraction of the many refugees who are now fleeing the Middle East region. Hungary should therefore act as a responsible global country, with the same logic as Hungary voted against the Islamic State, the same international responsibility as that practiced by the Fidesz majority a few years ago, because we are part of the developed world, and we take responsibility for that. Therefore, it is not the duty of the members of the Hungarian Government to try to solve this problem individually with the border closure, but rather to develop a serious and joint solution in the cooperation of the European Union as an active participant, as members of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2015-06-17-48	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-17-49	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, one of the key issues, perhaps the most important one, is Hungary's choice of strategy, whether the current government of Hungary is moving on through the tightening of forces, or whether it decides to settle down by quota or by other EU or external constraints, to accommodate people in Hungary, people who are not fleeing from persecution. I would like to stress that Jobbik gives a helping hand to everyone who comes here from real persecution, political or religious persecution, but at the same time not only we see it, but also the statistics, that most people did not come to Hungary from war this year. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi: Yes!]] In the first third of the year, when the Kosovo Albanians made the surplus, the number of arrivals was already 30,000. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi: But it's the second third!]] There was still over 90 percent of those who came here, not from a war zone and not from a real persecution, but from mere, simple economic considerations. And it is not true that most of them were Syrian citizens, because they were neither so nor black-African, but typically Albanians in Kosovo. It can also be seen that the key issue is the resolution of questions relating to deportation, which have rightly been raised, that if Austria, Germany, is going to send thousands back here, perhaps tens of thousands later, people whose application has not been found to be positive, we have a dog's duty to find a strategy against what will happen to these people. This should be discussed here today, and concrete, important decision-making opportunities should be outlined, but in the long term, with regard to the inclusion of refugees and immigrants - because they are not at all the same two categories - I also recommend to everyone that only in terms of Black Africa there will be a population surplus of hundreds of millions over the next few decades, of which, if only ten percent of them move towards Europe, there will be no continent, no country, no economic unit that can accept this huge mass. That is why we need to come up with a comprehensive strategy now, and there is no time to wait for that. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group.
u2015-06-17-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Precisely because we need to give a helping hand to those who are being persecuted, we need to prepare ourselves for an increase in the number of these people. So, when states are bombed in the Mediterranean without any concept for America or for the European Union, what will then happen, where war policy practically overrides all other principles and political intentions in the Middle East, North Africa, then it is indeed necessary to face the fact that the number of persecuted will continue to increase. So far it is not just the Kosovo problem, although Europe has a serious responsibility in the worsening of the Kosovo crisis, and Hungary in Europe too. However, we also need to see that a very serious pressure can be placed on Hungary from the east, and the government's policy over the last few months is irresponsible because if there is a mood for immigrants and refugees in Hungary and Fidesz communication is absolutely collapsing the two categories, then what will happen if, with the worsening of the situation in Ukraine, suddenly, say, a million asylum seekers appear at the eastern borders of Hungary. So my question is, did the government account for its responsibilities when it laid out these posters, how, let's say, how will the escalation of the eastern situation be dealt with correctly by an otherwise pissed-off public opinion? I continue to look forward to the answer to the fact that, when a global problem is refugee crisis, Hungary is constantly reducing its international development engagement. Hungary should not close its eyes about what is happening in the world when a global crisis affects Hungary directly and severely. Thank you.
u2015-06-17-52	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group, submitted a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2015-06-17-53	Mr. President. Dear House, I listened with great attention to the leader of the socialists and found that the multiplicity of the facts does not interfere with his insight. I mean, let me tell you some of the things you said wrong. Of course, there is detention in Hungary as a legal institution, but it is forbidden to use it in relation to refugees. The EU has initiated proceedings against us in this regard and has obliged Hungary to put an end to this. There is asylum detention as an institution, but the current framework and rules do not allow them to be applied by the Hungarian government as previously the detention of aliens. Less than 5 percent of asylum seekers can be used by this institution, and we cannot change it, and the Union has indicated that it still considers this to be a great deal. So what Mr Bellozó said about this is based on a fundamental error or a complete misunderstanding of the facts. On the other hand, the tyrades of hatred, which we heard here from Mr. Harangozó, are extremely strange to hear from a representative of a party who was conducting the most brutal Hungarian hating campaign at the time, on 5 December 2004, in the event of the granting of Hungarian citizenship, in connection with dual citizenship. [[10.40]] In fact, he is not ashamed of this, because the campaign face of the poster war, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who gave you the face of not to vote for Hungarians in surrendering dual citizenship, is sitting here among us, brought to Parliament! [[Gyula Budai: He's not here!]] He is not here now, but, of course, the socialists have undertaken it with a breast width, and it is evident that they are characterized by this spirit; the most brutal Hungarian hating campaign ever was conducted by the socialists, by the way, and they are brave to do so now. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-17-54	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó, independent. You have the floor.
u2015-06-17-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Lajos Kósa is right to say that detention of asylum seekers is prohibited, but unfortunately, this is something the SAO has always preferred to use even this year. In the last year and a half, nearly 8,000 asylum seekers have been detained according to the SAO's own statistics. And you were at the police committee meeting where Mr Sándor Pintér's hearing was held, so you know for sure, and I say to my good colleagues that half of the asylum seekers were in Kosovo by the end of March, but now 90 percent of asylum seekers came from Afghanistan, Syria and Iraq. This was confirmed by Sándor Pintér himself, Minister of the Interior. She sat next to her, Director Zsuzsa Végh, Director of the Immigration and Nationality Office, and, by the way, State Secretary Károly Kontrat. So let us be clear, however, that there are no longer asylum seekers from Kosovo, among whom there were, by the way, very many who did not or would not comply with the points provided for in the Geneva Convention. Today, however, 90 percent of asylum seekers come from war zones. I'm telling you, they're running away from death and torture. [[Lajos Kósa: It's not like that!]] Let's at least try to respect the statistics. [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true!]] When I come to the speech, I will tell you the details of this. Thank you.
u2015-06-17-56	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, This is now the time for the speeches by the Members who have made themselves known in advance in writing. First, I give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl, the KDNP Group.
u2015-06-17-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I begin my comment, Szabó Timea mentioned how and when the Kosmetians had lost their numbers. Well, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the police committee meeting, the Minister of Interior said that, even before the German Minister of Interior, Austrian Minister of Interior, went to Kosovo and explained to the Kosmetians that the flood of refugees from which they started does not work. So stay put, because they're not gonna get in. Therefore, this was the reason why it had a priori that it was even formulated against them that those who want to leave Germany and Austria as economic refugees would not be allowed to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, asylum issues are covered by the 2007 Asylum Act and the Government Decree issued for its implementation, as well as the 2007 II on the entry and residence of third-country nationals. It's regulated by law. When these laws were adopted, our country was not even close to the current situation, with an average of 500 illegal immigrants arriving every day on the territory of Hungary, and, as Mr. State Secretary said in his introduction, this weekend exceeded 1,500 people. And it should also be noted that these illegal border offenders do not always submit to contacts with internal affairs, because in recent years some people have had to be produced and prosecuted because of counterfeiting of public documents and then smuggling of human beings. It also shows that the arrival of these people into our country is pre-violent, and they do not cooperate with our authorities throughout the asylum process, disappear within days, because they know that they are not entitled to refugee status. Then there's the European dimension. All of Europe faces the policy of illegal immigration, and on Sunday, the leadership of four Italian provinces officially stated that they would not accept more illegal immigrants, Italy described the state of the situation as a time bomb. Then why is the opposition attacking our government with xenophobia in Hungary, and why is it criticizing the will to do so? With regard to xenophobia, I would just like to note that when the South Slavic war was at our borders, Hungary was exemplary in cases where Serbs, Croatians and Bosnians really fled from the war. We were able to address this issue, and it is therefore impossible to say that we are dealing with xenophobia. When there is a war situation, we can really understand that problem, and then we can help. Immigrants in other European countries, such as Greece, Italy, are also a major problem and are in a difficult situation in an increasingly difficult situation. If the migration rate does not decrease, as more people have already said, between 120 and 130 thousand illegal immigrants can arrive in Hungary by the end of the year. So far, the number of asylum seekers deported from Germany has increased significantly, and more migrants have been expelled from more provinces than last year. Deportation mainly affects those from the Western Balkan countries, with almost 100 percent of rejected asylum applications. The authorities consider that the latter are fleeing poverty to Germany and not from political or religious persecution. Therefore, asylum cannot be granted to them. The German Federal Minister for the Interior recently announced that the asylum procedure will be further accelerated for those coming from the Western Balkans. Then why shouldn't we change our laws? If Germany, Italy and France tighten the asylum regulatory procedure at Member State level, why shouldn't we do so? It is no coincidence that immigration was one of the most important issues at the meeting of the G7s. The other part of the problem is that sooner or later economic refugees from Western Europe will be sent back to where they first entered the territory of the Union, and because a significant part of them cross the Schengen borders with Hungary, these illegal immigrants will be redirected back to Hungary, whether we like it or not. We will still have to face this problem, and it will still be a serious challenge for Hungary. Why do we have to wait so long? Why wait for this point? Why not act against the visible and clear problem? I think everyone in Hungary sees this as a very big problem. A responsible government senses the problem and makes a solution. There's been a question as to why not so far. Well, the moment has now come that we can no longer take any longer, we really need to take steps to limit this serious crisis. According to the proposal submitted by our two fellow Members, immigrants who enter Hungary from a safe transit country are certainly not entitled to political asylum. By adopting a list of safe origins and safe third countries, asylum applications from those countries can be classified more easily and more quickly, as data currently support this fact that these applications are unfounded. Now the question of Serbia is whether it is safe or unsafe. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members: Serbia is waiting for an EU accession, so Serbia, if it wants to join the European Union, really, must have the same security requirements as any other EU state. Thus, it is legitimate that anyone who enters Hungary from a safe transit country should not in any way seek political asylum. This is also included in the current proposal, which, of course, applies to illegal immigrants, while those who are actually entitled to refugee status are not excluded by the asylum procedure. It must also be made clear at legal level that those who are not entitled to refugee status will not receive it, nor will they be able to continue to travel to the European Union through our country, because, in the case of illegal immigrants, it is a violation of the laws of the Hungarian and other European Member States. With the adoption of the current proposal, asylum procedures can be made more transparent and faster, which is in the interests of our country. [[10.50]] As I have already said, as a member of the Defence and Police Committee, I have listened to the Ministry of the Interior's report on illegal immigrants on several occasions, and their number is growing dramatically and steadily. When we talk about it here, and it is easy to talk about going up to the speaker's pulpit and handing out the government, handing out anyone who may not agree with the Socialist Party's thinking world, and then going out, and asking the huge question that his door is open on this issue, I think it is a kind of attitude that simply doesn't face the reality that is in Hungary, which interests Hungarian people. Tell me you're pissing off the Hungarians. I respectfully ask those who are watching the events in our political environment: how did the Social Democratic Chief of Burgenland win elections? How did you make a coalition with the Freedom Party? Or how did the Freedom Party practically win in Austria? Or how does the Chief of Provinces of Upper Austria currently campaign to close the borders? Just think, they are also EU Member States, and they are not attacked by their internal opposition because they want to tighten up these issues. Close European cooperation, European action, of course. Do it! The French are sending their refugees back to the Italians. How close are we? We cannot achieve this close cooperation, because it would indeed be in the interest of the European Union to use the right resources where the refugee flows start. Ladies and gentlemen, What I can say is that this proposal, which is now before you and lies before us, is capable of halting, or otherwise excluding, the possibility of Hungary participating in a joint European action in an appropriate manner later on. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-17-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, the LMP Group. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-17-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Today, the country is being disfigured by traces of a completely irresponsible poster campaign. The war was supposed to start because immigrants and refugees arrive in Hungary. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] At the same time, it is becoming clearer for everyone - perhaps also for the members of the Fidesz and KDNP who are now intruding - that the real management of the problem itself is only barely dealt with by the government. You don't see any signs of responsibility, gentlemen and ladies. Let's go back a little bit to understand the real nature of the problem, because in order to find a real solution, we need to see a little bit how we got into this situation. CHAPTER XXI By the beginning of the century, a very, very not-so-nice new world was built, in which less and less people are enjoying themselves. A world has been built with a huge gap between super-rich oligarchs and majority society. This is a world in which work has no honor, money has become omniscient and omnipotent. For many people, the environment here is just a nuisance or an obstacle to making a profit that needs to be put through. It's a world in which energy and military companies are pulling corrupt politicians on strings, and I don't want to point fingers at you right now. This is a world where people can play with their health and lives, because nothing is more important than the balance of the quarterly financial report. It's a world where there's war, there's war, there's drought, there's hunger, and it's making life hell for more and more people. And whether you like it or not, ladies and gentlemen, the Western countries have a serious responsibility in this situation. In recent decades, we have made huge mistakes. In this world where we live, in a comfortable Europe, we lived, consumed, and politicalized as if there were no tomorrow. In recent decades, the elected leaders thought that the problems would only be encountered by people in the evening news, perhaps even through foreign policy. Were there any questions like bombing Iraq and Libya? Sure, please, let's do it. World companies need money for politicians' campaigns! Force traditional energy sources? Of course! Who cares about climate change, we're gonna use more air conditioning or sell more bottled soft drinks next year! And what happens now, fellow Members? I would like you to pay close attention to me, because it is the duty of each Member in the pro-government benches to know, every time he curses and whips migrants, refugees, immigrants, that in this situation there is a responsibility for the continent of which we are members, and for the attitude that has been seen in recent decades, and for which the system critical parties, such as the May Other Politics, have declared war by no accident, precisely because it is completely unsustainable. What is happening in Europe now? Reality is knocking on our door. Here are the people who are fleeing the conditions for which we are also responsible. So that I do not go far - and I would like you to consider this - that is exactly what you do at home in small amounts: starve and keep working people in poverty, crowd out renewable energy sources and open a state money launderer without any facial trips, where grey and black money can be taxed at a low tax rate. There's this mister system, this latest feudalism that's been built, and here diligence and talent are being ignored. In this country, they now tax the bank manager as much as the doorman, preach about families, but they do not really help those who need it the most. No wonder half a million of our countrymen have migrated to the West. And then there's the Orbán government, and how are you trying to deal with the problems? What I can tell you is that it's as stupid as possible. We know this thinking well from our own story, however, how many times we have defended Europe, how many times we have defended the West, the Turkish occupation was here; of course, it is possible to think of this with injury that we have made the sacrifice, so that the happier half of the continent can thrive. Would this really be the role for Hungary? Unspokenly, you will ride this question and shamelessly build a party propaganda campaign on it. But it's a fundamentally flawed approach. It's wrong, because it's always and under all circumstances wrong to sacrifice the possibility of a real solution for internal political gain, and that's what you're doing right now. This bill is also about you sacrificing the real solution for perceived internal political benefits. I must tell you that I agree with Viktor Orbán in 2007. It is precisely that the refugee issue needs to be resolved at European level and should not be left to the individual Member States. That is exactly what Viktor Orbán said in 2007. That's what we agree with. I mean, we shouldn't draw trouble on ourselves - that's what you're doing right now - because then we'll be alone. The government has this polling poster campaign. While you have been thinking about this, it would have been better to negotiate with Europe and find a solution that is already forming in the other countries of the European Union. As my fellow Member András Schiffer said, the only right and European way to address the refugee issue is to clear the matter between us, to divide the burden and divide it equally among the 28 Member States. We need to strengthen Europol, Frontex and Eurosur with more EU resources. We must fundamentally rethink the whole Dublin system, which regulates the fate of refugees arriving in the EU. We need to rethink a lot of things, foreign and security policy. And what should we focus on? Peacemaking and prevention. This is the only right, forward-looking and constructive solution to this situation, which is also forward-looking for Hungary. What is not needed in such a situation? There's no need for the governing parties to be booby-trapped, the martyr role, the tempest, the whole comedy you're performing here. Here we must seek true allies, we need coalition-building power. Technically, this is about you making a huge shift, giving up opportunist and completely short-sighted trade, and working to create a real foreign policy. You're completely incapable of doing that, I can see that. Speaking of prevention, don't forget a thought. At present, Hungary is doing almost nothing to enable us to live a bearable and decent life south and east of Europe, at least where there is no war. 23 million forints - do you know what 23 million forints is? We can say that the price of a family house, or of a government luxury car - you know them well - is exactly what Hungary is currently spending in a year on bilateral aid with state money. 23 million forints! That's what they spend on helping the Balkan countries or the North African countries, that's what they spend on keeping refugees at home, 23 million forints. And how much money have you spent on a poster campaign that demonizes immigrants? 33 times that. If we add all our obligations paid to international organisations, we are only at the price of a small stadium, even though only a fraction of the latter is going to deal with the refugee problem. What's our answer to that? We should do our best to ensure that the Balkans and North Africa are not an infinite source of refugees in a targeted and bilateral way. We need to think about this, we need a strategic approach, we need a real foreign policy, and this would require a kind of attention from the government, so that we can finally see in perspective the 23 million HUF spent on the basis of current bilateral cooperation. [[11.00]] Let's look at another country: let's look at the Czech Republic. The Czech State just announced that they will not cut the aid and development funds. Do you know how many times the Czech Republic currently spends for this purpose compared to Hungary? 400 times, 400 times, the Czech Republic spends 400 times as much as Hungary! By the way, it would be enough to start, and let's just say I would be satisfied if at least you had spent the price of a completely immoral poster campaign to add it to this relief budget. They would have helped people with this. So, what'd we do with it? The country is here, there's a problem you can't talk about rationally, because you're the ones who've driven the country into this completely immoral rhetoric. This is unacceptable! In relation to the immigration situation, by the way, by summing up so far, there are two huge mistakes that can be made. I think that the governing parties should consider this. One is to ignore the risks and deny the difficulties, the possible deterioration of the situation. Now, that would require the strategic approach and the real foreign policy I was talking about. You can't do this. But it's the same mistake, and you've been even more involved in that, if you're just inspiring the mood for political gain, but in fact, you're doing nothing to solve it, and you're even making the country's situation worse. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] But honestly, please tell me, my fellow members of the Government, what made it better for the Hungarian people with the poster campaign they did! Tell me! Stand up and tell us what Hungary has profited from this poster campaign! 'Cause I'm gonna tell you, nothing. A lot of public money has been spent completely unnecessarily, while there is no money for health care, education in this country, and they refuse to give money to raise wages. Technically, half the country is on the verge of being on the brink, and what are you capable of? They use poster campaigns with completely immoral sentences. I think and my party is of the opinion that we need a professional, European and effective solution. Please stop acting and get to work. After all, you govern this country, don't take us to the edge of the woods, please. [[Charles Kontra and Gábor Fodor applaud. Szabó Timea intervenes.]]
u2015-06-17-60	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2015-06-17-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I responded to the last sentence of Bernadett Wind, and we are really doing our jobs. Allow me to draw attention to the bill here on the second asylum debate day since 19 February. The refugee debate day, which is currently taking place, I think highlights the importance of the problem. Dear Parliament, Just going back to the bill, why is this proposal important? Because by defining a safe third country, the burden of proof will be reversed. So the essence of this is that refugees must prove that the state declared safe by the Hungarian rules is not safe for the asylum seeker for some reason. This part is important, and we are asking for this, and I said at the beginning of the debate that the government supports it. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal. As regards the request of Mr Tamás Harangozó, I regret that they do not listen to him, they do not assume opposition responsibility, as the opposition also has a responsibility in this matter by being present in the debate, by expressing its opinion, arguing and seeking compromises. I'm sorry the socialists won't do that. In fact, if it was about Hungarians across the border, I'd hit the iron here to tighten it up. Obviously, that's not gonna happen. But now it's unfortunate that you cowardly run away from the debate. So I would answer Tamás Harangozó if he were here, so I would say to the public of Parliament that the institution of asylum detention was employed by the Office for Immigration and Nationality, and that it was precisely to ban the European Union or to act decisively, because it was the position of the Union to apply it as a sanction, and it cannot be used at this frequency, as the HAC has done, that it has initiated infringement proceedings against Hungary. So once again, we have used this institution, but because of EU action, we have had to withdraw from it, and we are currently in the process of infringement of obligations against Hungary in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-62	I am now giving the floor to Mr Gábor Fodor as a pre-notification speaker in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-17-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start by saying that what we are talking about here in Parliament is a really serious problem. It would be very good if we could approach the whole issue without prejudice, but apparently there is little chance of that. It would not have served prejudice-free, but, on the contrary, it was essentially dragged through the government's poster campaign, which caused a lot of people to be outraged, and we are constantly hearing from the pro-government representatives, among others, that it does not correspond to their taste and perception. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are all in serious trouble, because indeed, as has been said here from the pro-government side, from the opposition side, there would be a common responsibility to try and find a solution to this issue. But it's kind of hard this way. Well, on behalf of the liberals, we would like to add that we are trying to find a common solution. But first, some questions are worth clearing up. Let me start by saying to you, fellow Members, that I would like to make some quotes. I could say that it's a riddle, it's worth figuring out where these quotes come from, which party's idea or program. Everyone can think about it. Allow me to say a few of these, and then, of course, I will tell you the solution. Well, the first quote sounds to me that, in addition to the loss of population and low employment in Hungary, growth, redistribution, the sustainability of pensions can also be supported by controlled immigration of skilled workers. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Well, there's a good one now, I hear. Another quote:. It is also necessary to stimulate the country for economic purposes, for economic purposes, for the pursuit of employment, and for the sake of knowledge-based migration. In particular, with regard to the emigration of the Hungarian workforce, those employed in certain sectors, it is necessary to receive additional migrant workers. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then another quote:, The rules of entry and residence for foreigners need to be reviewed and revised in the future. And then the quote is: "Beware that extremist groups do not use it for their own purposes and abuse mass scenes and mass phenomena resulting from inappropriate information of the population, rejection of behaviour against foreigners. And lastly, it is important for us to promote an open society and intercultural dialogue with third-country nationals. * Well, these, as has already been said here by a correct interpreter, are indeed derived from a strategy adopted by the government in 2013; from a strategy that bears the title of a migration strategy. So this is what the current Fidesz-KDNP government adopted in 2013 and then sent to international forums. Hungary has been held accountable for this until the last period. Well, my fellow Members, it seems to be a kind of peacock dance, this is the agreed strategy, because nothing has been achieved from it. The government coalition does exactly the opposite. Basically, against every point I've just read and said, it goes against a completely different strategy. The strategy submitted to the international forums, then made public to Hungary, was ignored by the government. And the reason why he should have informed his constituents about this was that he was not doing what he was doing with the strategy he had adopted. Apparently, not only does the government know its own strategy, but also certain important facts, because, for example, Congressman Lajos Kósa, he said that the European Union is essentially giving nothing to provide asylum in Hungary. I'm sorry you're not in this room, because I'd like to answer your statement in the press. And Antal Rogán said that he thought that all refugees should be shut down. I'm sorry he's not in this room either, because I'd like to answer to him. There has also been talk about the introduction of asylum detention, several have also raised the pro-government side of Jobbik. I would like to deal with this briefly. [[11.10]] Let us look at the first statement made by Mr Kósa, namely that the European Union is essentially giving nothing to the provision of asylum in Hungary. It is also worth recalling here in this debate that, for example, according to Mandiner's calculations, the European Union consists of HUF 3.5 billion of nearly HUF 4.1 billion spent by the budget on asylum in Hungary, i.e. HUF 3.5 billion. Hungary spends a total of HUF 481 million for this purpose. So, contrary to what Congressman Kósa says, the European Union bears most of the costs, a significant part of them. We also remember the statement made by Congressman Rogán. It is not true that all refugees should be shut down, because almost 80 percent of refugees arriving in Hungary will move on almost immediately, essentially not spend a day in Hungary, and otherwise if they stay here permanently - otherwise this system is not suitable for the people remaining here, which is in Hungary - it would definitely collapse the entire system, and there is no humane aspect that would, for example, represent a mass of people detained for us instead of open refugee camps, let us say, or the challenge of setting up such ones. We were talking about alien detention versus asylum detention. The Secretary of State spoke on this matter first, others too. I would also like to draw attention to what my fellow opposition Members have said that asylum detention is currently in force in Hungary. Another issue is that Hungary uses this sometimes, sometimes it does not apply it, precisely because of the action of the European Union. It is not wise to demand something more than the fact that the European Union has essentially drawn our attention to the fact that this is not a proper procedure. It is also worth dealing with other misconceptions, such as the question of the need to state that Hungary is still not an immigration destination for many, but, in essence, a transit country. Of course, you can rightly say from the pro-government side, but we must be prepared to see that these circumstances may change. You can be prepared for this, but certainly not in this way, what is happening now and what is happening from the government side. I'd like to get back to that. Otherwise, it is worth noting that, or it is not bad to know, what is one of the messages of the unacceptable and unrated poster campaign, so it is worth noting that in Hungary only those who are insured for a living, who have a job, income, housing, health insurance, can receive a residence permit. So again, in contrast to what these posters suggest or what they say, there is no need to support these refugees who are otherwise granted refugee status here. We know that last year we were talking about nearly 500 people, so that's the terrible number we're terrified of right now. So I would stress that according to the current Hungarian legislation, the establishment and livelihood of these people must be solved. And it is also not true that foreigners, potential immigrants and residents would not comply with Hungarian legislation, as, for example, in 2012, there were 4756 crimes committed by foreign citizens, and this year 472 thousand crimes were committed in Hungary. So in total, the crime committed by foreigners was about 1 percent of the crime committed by Hungarians, and the vast majority and overwhelming majority of the crime committed by foreigners were committed by nearly 43 million foreigners who came to Hungary as travellers or permanent tourists. In addition, most of these crimes, so the overwhelming majority of them were citizens of a neighbouring country or citizens of Germany. So it's not true that we should be afraid of some terrible crime wave here. And it's also not true that the terrorist threat is terrible and terrible. I would add that this must also be addressed, because, of course, it is possible, a lot of things are possible, and national security must also pay attention to this issue, so there is no need to exclude this problem. But the reality is that, by the way, the strict system of procedures relating to asylum applications in Europe is precisely that it deters terrorists because they need to be registered here, and refugees become visible and registered in this procedure. So, at all, potential terrorists have no desire to be registered as refugees somewhere. Fellow Members, my fellow opposition Members have already spoken here about the fact that the allegations that so-called economic immigrants would be the majority of the refugees arriving in Hungary are not true either. We talked about the fact that we are not a destination country, so we cannot talk about immigrants in this sense, but about refugees. We also need to see how the ratio changes. While they used to come from Kosovo in the past, and we ourselves suggested that Serbia, Kosovo, Germany, Austria and Hungary should work together to solve this problem primarily in Kosovo, today this situation has changed, and we know that according to today's data, for example, 6500 people from Afghanistan in the last three months, 4100 from Syria, 1500 from Iraq have come to Hungary as refugees, 968 from Kosovo. So, basically, the proportions have changed. And yes, the political refugees, the refugees from the war, the humane aspects in which they arise, the number of refugees coming from a situation and such an impossible situation has increased significantly in Hungary. Serbia cannot be considered a safe country, of course, so we do not agree with such government proposals, as the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has already reported in August 2012, the Helsinki Commission has also dealt with this, and have come to the conclusion that we also say that Serbia cannot be regarded as such a country. We therefore made proposals on behalf of the Liberal Party in the exact opposite direction that the government is now representing. We believe that a number of rules on refugees should be alleviated from a humane and humanitarian point of view, including rules on family reunification, relations, and we believe that Hungary should be wise and sensible about this issue. It should be wise and sensible, and it should also be tailored to the EU's expectations, because, for example, the quota system could be a sensible proposal that Europe is debating today and for which there is a European proposal. There are bodies that support, there are those that reject this proposal at the moment. We think that would be a good suggestion. Hungary should, first and foremost, seek to find a real answer to this question under Article XXI. For centuries of migration, which is a European problem. We cannot say that this problem does not exist. So it's a real problem. Europe, in its present form, will not be able to resolve this huge wave of refugees if Europe is really flooded with millions of desperate and unfortunate people. Therefore, Europe must no doubt come up with the mechanisms, the steps that, in some respects, could mean tightening up. But Hungary cannot do that we take a different position against the European mainstream, compared to our own values, humane values, our historical traditions, an exclusionist position. We can't do this for any more reason. Nor would it be wise, by the way, to again, for many times and again, to spoil our already bad international judgment with this question, with this step, and, on the other hand, we cannot do it because, once again, our own traditions do not predestate or push us away in this direction. Among other things, because we see that those who refer to Hungarian history deserve to take out the warnings of St. Stephen, who always warned about aliens, he and his successors, who took them seriously, the Hungarian decision-makers. But let us say, those who seek to reach out in Christendom should be bound to the Gospel of Matthew or to the pronouncements of Pope Francis, who also call on the world's decision makers to be humane everywhere. What is happening in Hungary, and I am thinking primarily of the poster campaign, I think that it is a shame of the government, because the problem here is and we are arguing about it intelligently, it is not a shame. Everyone can have different positions in that, and no one should be ashamed of themselves because they represent a position that others might argue with. But the fact that it creates a mood against unfortunate people, based on anger, is to make a poster campaign that obviously does not even have any message to speak to those who are involved, but only wants to arouse the emotions of Hungarian citizens, we know that for political reasons, this is unacceptable morally and politically. He's only capable of exterminating the country. We therefore urge the Government to conclude this immediately, to change its position, to return to its position in 2013, which it represented in the migration strategy, and, moreover, to seek a common European solution to this matter. Thank you for your attention. [[11.20]]
u2015-06-17-64	I give the floor to Secretary Charles Kontra.
u2015-06-17-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Gábor Fodor said that 472,000 crimes were committed in Hungary this year. This number is untrue. I would like to inform the House that, on the basis of the uniform criminal statistics of the investigating authority and prosecutor's office in Hungary, during the period from 1 January to 31 May 2015, the police registered a total of 102 806 offences, which, compared to the previous year's data, was 118 815, is 13.5 percent lower. I just wanted to say this for the sake of accuracy and information to the Honourable Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-17-66	I now give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-06-17-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond very briefly to some of the criticisms or suggestions that have been said. With regard to the quota system, I would like to say that I would warn everyone not to support it. This quota system can be beneficial in countries such as Germany, France, where it is now a potential problem, as it is a destination country. They're gonna be good for him, and we're gonna be really bad for him. Don't be fooled by the fact that it's first defined in x-hundred, then 1100, and then you don't know that in a few months, [[Németh Szilárd István: How it will be.]] How to modify it. So this quota system is a freak and it's not even in line with reality. As a matter of fact, terrorists are alarmed by the current EU legislation, I would strongly deny that. The National Security Committee has a number of meetings on how and how they are leaking from Europe to the Middle East, or vice versa, to EU Member States for terrorist purposes and terrorist suspects, who are now explicitly using refugee flows to place their different cells in such Member States. For now, we don't know for what purpose or with what result, but unfortunately, it works. Let us not forget, however, that there is no authority and there is no registration that can rule this out when a person arrives without any documents and is registered on the basis of a announcement. No authority can trace the fact that crowds arrived in a boat on the coast of Italy without documents from which country, with what purpose, with what background, with what circumstances they come from. No one here is going to decide or decide if it's really terrorists or not. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-17-68	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-06-17-69	I had to ask for two minutes, because if we're referring to the National Security Committee, then I think we're gonna have to act very aggressively. I noticed that that was not what the better speech was about. The most important thing is to see clearly what is covered by terrorism and what is covered by migration. The Committees are constantly talking about them, as is the fact that in some refugee waves, 40 percent of the people are children and their parents, and terrorism has nothing to do with people's lack of drinking water, no food, and they are in danger at home and therefore have to leave their homes. Terrorism as such has changed its form in accordance with Article XXI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. By the end of the century, some of it will be organized online. I think that it is very irresponsible to see terrorists in migrants. I must, for my part, very strongly refuse to do so. And what I can't understand at all is that the quota system is not in line with reality. I don't know exactly what Jobbik meant when he said that. The reality is that there is a problem that we need to solve, and in Hungary, the governing parties are playing to create moods and to whip up emotions instead of talking about it objectively. I ask very much for every political force responsible for not getting on this train, but for really trying to create a situation for Hungary on the basis of the legislation and the European Union's common thinking, in which we can successfully take this obstacle, both now and in the coming decades. One thing is certain: Hungary will not be able to handle this situation in itself, neither Viktor Orbán nor anyone else. We need a prime minister and a governing party or governing parties who are able to enforce Hungary's interests in European space. At present, this is about trying to talk intelligently about the quota system for the replacement of the Dublin Convention with our European compatriots. In this direction, I hope to move from government to government.
u2015-06-17-70	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Fodor in two minutes.
u2015-06-17-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to mention to the Secretary of State what I said to him in the meantime that he probably misunderstood my speech. I was talking about 2012 figures, not this year. The data I gave you on this year concerned refugees. So again, the 2012 data, which are the data of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Interior: in 2012, according to accurate statistics, 472 236 crimes were committed in Hungary. Foreign citizens committed 4756 crimes. That's about 1 percent of all crimes. In this regard, the statements also recall that, while Hungary received 43.5 million visitors this year, this number of foreigners had visited the country together with refugees and tourists, more than 60 percent of the perpetrators of the crime were nationals of neighbouring countries and Germany. Therefore, it is not true in any circumstances that crime in relation to refugees would increase or increase radically, it could be detected. It's not like that. The situation here is quite different in Hungary. The statistics clearly show this picture. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-17-72	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-17-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I had a few two-minute speeches ahead of me. I would like to open with the idea of Antal Rogán, who started by asking the opposition to think about their traditionally immigrant-friendly policies or attitudes. And I would like to ask the honourable pro-government Members to reconsider their traditional policies based on hatred and untruths, and, as has been repeatedly asked, to conduct a sensible debate based on reality and real numbers. I agree that the refugee problem exists at European level. This problem does not exist at Hungarian level, regardless of the fact that the number of asylum seekers in Hungary has really increased. But the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that this amendment, which has just been tabled, will not be able to remedy this problem. This pro-government amendment, which has just been tabled, is not only malicious but also stupid and unnecessary. The fact is that, in accordance with the Geneva Convention and the European Union Directives, it does not matter whether you close the borders or not, the Hungarian authorities still need to conduct a preliminary investigation in order to see whether an asylum application can be accepted or not. However, according to the justification, one of the objectives was to remove the burden from the Hungarian authorities so that the Immigration and Nationality Office would no longer have to deal with this refugee flow, but this bill will not achieve that objective. We know that if a asylum seeker appears on the Serbian border, for example, in order to be able to send back the Hungarian border guards, he must contact the Hungarian border guards. The moment a asylum seeker tells the Hungarian border guard that he is a refugee and asks for protection, the Hungarian authorities must carry out this preliminary procedure, they cannot send him back to Serbia with that momentum, even if you advise him to do so. Moreover, non-refoulement is also required by international and EU legislation. Under EU law, a non-refoulement is violated by a person who transfers people to a safe third country that can deport them to an unsafe state. [[11.30]] No matter how you judge the Serbs, this in itself precludes them from handing over asylum seekers to them. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, you also place a huge burden on the Hungarian courts with this amendment proposal, as the Hungarian courts would be in a difficult position to face the dilemma of taking into account a regulation or what asylum seekers have said, or the experience of international organisations and domestic defenders, the decision to which the law otherwise requires individualised, personalised decisions. The fact is that if this preliminary procedure has already been carried out by the Hungarian authorities, it is far from certain that they will be able to send these asylum seekers back to Serbia on the basis of the deportation agreement, because if this preliminary investigation takes place in a day or two, the Serbs will not be able to acknowledge that the asylum seeker has come from them, so he will remain in Hungary in the same way, since he will not be accepted back. Serbia has already been mentioned. Imre Vejkey and other pro-government representatives have also said that several EU countries consider Serbia a safe country. We know that this has been said, too, that the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has also stated that Serbia is not a safe third country. In 2012, the Curia also said that the courts should take into account the views of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees when making decisions. In addition, the Prime Minister also referred to the fact that not only Serbia, but also Greece, can be considered a safe country for asylum seekers. We know that the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice of Strasbourg, have said on several occasions that Greece is not a safe country either, since there is a high chance that asylum seekers will be sent back to certain deaths. Therefore, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Sweden and several European countries have suspended Dublin II. the application of the Convention, for example, against Greece. When we are talking about Serbia and we are talking about a safe third country, we need to consider whether if we send people back there, they will be persecuted or given appropriate asylum procedures, and whether they will be sent back to their country of origin in danger. We know that this has also been said here several times that unfortunately there is no asylum procedure in Serbia. In the last seven years, Serbia has granted refugee status in a total of 18 cases. Eighteen! You certainly do not consider this to be an appropriate asylum procedure at the time, because there must have been more people entitled to asylum than this on the basis of the law of large numbers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I think it is a great risk for you to wash together the immigrants and refugees of livelihoods here. The fact that a person is illegally crossing the border does not mean that he is an immigrant of livelihoods does not make him an immigrant, and in most cases he is most likely to be entitled to refugee status under the Geneva Convention, as he does not have proper documents or travel documents. And not only because, as you assume, they will be deliberately destroyed, but in many countries they will not otherwise issue travel documents, especially if, let's say, if you are so fond of using the term political refugee, they are persecuted for political reasons and they do not receive a passport. So they have to escape from their own country of origin. It was also said, and I mentioned this earlier, that there was indeed a wave of Kosovo here to Hungary in the first third of the year, but this, as the Minister of the Interior said, ended in March. We know that according to the statistics of the Immigration and Nationality Office and the statistics of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 90 percent of all asylum seekers arriving here are real refugees. Imagine, fellow Members, the situation where many of my colleagues and civil society organisations have now visited refugee camps, and there they have been talking to asylum seekers who, for example, have said that in Syria, six children of a Syrian man have now been killed under the Assad regime. His six children, and he would have been next. Is that the kind of people you say is an economic immigrant, and you left your home because you might want community service at home? Well, come on, fellow Members. Here, people are fleeing death and torture! These are people whose daughters, his wife, were raped, murdered, tortured. These people must be protected not only by international law and by domestic legislation, but also by our moral duty and our duty as a fellow human being. I recently spoke to a Turkish journalist who came from a Turkish town of nearly 2 million people, where he said that only 400 thousand refugees live in his city. I asked him what they were going to do with these refugees. He said the whole town would help them. They're trying to give them jobs, they're trying to feed them, because they know they're running from war, they know they're people, and it doesn't even occur that they're going from Syria to Turkey because it's so much better to live than they are in their own country where their families are. This has come up, my fellow Members, the question of detention. We know precisely that asylum seekers cannot in principle be detained in Hungary, in practice yes. But let us turn a little away from the legislation and return to the case of these asylum seekers for one thought. If there's a family who's been exterminated, tortured, part of whom have been killed, and the rest of the family flees to another country, do you really think they're going to be held back by a three-month or six-month refugee guard, or are they going to be held back by alien police to escape their country? Will they consider whether I should now choose death or six months of detention? Of course this will not hold them back, so that is not the main question here, whether it is possible or not, and that the European Union was now so evil because it banned foreign police detention in Hungary. There has been a number of questions about where money comes from and who stands the burden of the refugee problem in Hungary. We know that only last year ORFK received nearly HUF 4 billion from the European Union, the Immigration and Nationality Office received nearly HUF 750 million to carry out asylum tasks, and even a HUF 300 million amount was received for other asylum purposes. You are not telling the truth, fellow Members, when you claim that this is from the Hungarian taxpayers' money. No, this is from the European Union. And then let's look at how we can assume that if you close the borders, not only legally but also physically, and say that you have to refer the refugee issue to national jurisdiction, then who will pay for it. If you tell the European Union that this is no longer an EU issue, it is a Hungarian issue, then the Hungarians will indeed pay the HUF 5 billion check that would cost it! If the European Union would not give money for external border protection, then the Hungarian government should solve this! And, yes, it has also been said that instead of such a gastric and completely unnecessary poster campaign, for example, it could be used for meaningful purposes. For example, the amount could be used to really help the states where most asylum seekers come from. Let us help with international developments, help to make such funds available for reconstruction and development before the war breaks out, or if the war has already happened and the war is over in good times. If you close the Serbian borders, whether legally or physically, you will achieve nothing. We know exactly that when the nine - meter concrete wall was erected in Israel, the asylum seekers dug a tunnel beneath it and crossed it. In Turkey, the fence was demolished. These people who are fleeing death and torture will not stop because of a wire fence. He won't be able to stop them! [[11.40]] Austria and Germany were also mentioned here. You're alarming me about how many people you're going to send back from Austria and Germany. Only last year was Dublin II. According to the agreement, two thousand people from Germany, asylum seekers, should have been sent back to Hungary for proceedings, compared with 40 people returned from Germany. So it is not a matter of being sent back by mass, because Germany also believes that the Hungarian procedure at home would not be appropriate for these asylum seekers. As a matter of fact, if you are so terrified of asylum seekers, then why are you sweeping off the European quota agreement that is being prepared without any consideration. Perhaps you should listen to what is being done there, as this would probably be much more favourable for Hungary than the current situation. As far as Italy is concerned, you know, do you, fellow Members, that Italy is not only sending asylum seekers back, but the government has created the Mare Nostrum fleet, which rescued thousands of asylum seekers from the Adriatic Sea, with its own public funding. No one other than the Orbán government and you, no government in the EU, has ever thought that anyone who is truly entitled to refugee status, who is fleeing death, should not have to help. Ladies and gentlemen, The solution is not to incite hatred, but to comply with international and domestic laws and to try to help the countries where the problem comes from. We also have a human rights and moral obligation to help those in need and help other countries in Europe to burden-sharing. Thank you.
u2015-06-17-74	I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-17-75	Mr President, Dear House, We still have a lot of important issues to discuss in the debate, but we need to respond to the ultra-extremist thoughts we have just said for a few sentences. We see that the amazing and complete generalization of some liberal forces in terms of asylum seekers or immigrants is something quite facial toaster. Jobbik has often stressed that those who come to Hungary from real persecution, are really persecuted, whether for religious or political reasons, should be given a helping hand. However, the amazing generalization that every asylum seeker would be a person from real persecution is quite shocking. This is not the case, the situation is quite complex compared to this. We're not talking about a homogeneous mass at all. I'm asking everyone to put these extreme generalizations in some way and try to meet reality. We, Jobbikos, have done this in such a way that we have volunteered for the field guard in Sokotthal and, in addition to talking to the local forces a lot, of course, we have also spoken to the migrants, who do not make a secret at all about their intentions, where they came from. And we are talking about a very heterogeneous group. It is not possible to simplify this question to a version 1.0 that everyone was chasing me, fleeing from death, had no other choice, so Hungary has a dog duty to help him. The fact is, we need to consider this issue in a further dimension. If we look at Nigeria alone, we see that it is a country with a population of 166 million, the population of which is estimated to be over 400 million by the middle of the century. The same applies to other regions of Black Africa. And what if only 10 percent of a population increase of hundreds of millions starts? He's on his way. This is already a process and a series of phenomena recalling Mad Max's world. Simply because there will be nothing to eat and drink, these unfortunate people will go to Europe, some of them surely. They live in an incredibly difficult line, and in amazing circumstances, which we bettermen wouldn't wish on anyone. At the same time, Hungary cannot be expected to support the problem solution directly in these crisis zones, either through development programmes or by other means, with Hungarian taxpayers' money and budgetary resources. What we can support is that we can get those powerful blocks - as far as Hungary has a say in these issues - to overcome the effects of the crises that they have caused - to stop the crisis blokes. The EU's leading Member States, or the United States of America, are at the forefront of these conflicts, who could have a significant impact on mitigation. The question arises if refugees and migrants appear in such masses and want to give them a hand or two of liberal forces, in what way do you imagine it? After all, if people are deported here, they say that after that they cannot be transmitted to Serbia, that no one can be deported to Serbia because they are not classified as a safe country, then what is waiting for these people? A long-term stay in Hungary? Where appropriate, resettlement, as some liberal experts, so to speak, have led this up in the past? We've come across a wide range of amazing ideas. It was said here that there should be a rental for migrants in Budapest, and it was said that after what time and under what circumstances they could obtain voting rights. So there were terrifying ideas. And it is simply necessary to see that Jobbik cannot be accused of any kind of exclusion. Just this Saturday in Balassagyarmat, in the area of the refugee hostel there, where, I add, within 200 metres there is also a school and church, so the contact with the civilian population is not only constant, but it also creates tension, but a better initiative is being made for a city-building day where local right-wing activists ask migrants to participate in the construction and beauty of a temporary common habitat. The willingness to live together in society can be demonstrated, of course, on a voluntary basis, so there is no remuneration for such work. On Saturday, it will be revealed that some of those who have chased the Hungarian lady who has been there, who have been forced to play sports, and some of them are obviously honest citizens, show the willingness to make it more livable and contribute to the growth of the community if it is a temporary home. Our Lénárd Dobrocsi local representative and our county leaders will do so not in a campaigning manner, but in a long-standing way prepared and offered a fair offer, and will find out in the end of the week the willingness to deal with common affairs here. We must also add that if we are talking about the fact that Hungary's status as a destination country cannot be shown, I agree with this right now. Hungary is now a transit country, so remain, but the fact is that the change between transit and the status of the country of destination may, where appropriate, be the result of a few years of process. Let's not wait until we're a country of destination. That's exactly our problem with the quota. The quota in European centers, witch kitchens, this Orwell nightmare, which started with 300, then became 1100, and the end could be 10, 20 or 40 thousand, depending on the number of migrants arriving in Europe, is exactly 300 more than they need for 300 migrants sent here - it's more than zero. The fact is that such a quota system cannot eliminate, in the long term, thousands, tens of thousands of others coming through our borders. This is not a replacement fund, it does not mean that Hungary will then have hermetic closure of its borders and no more illegal migrants will arrive, just 300 or 1100 people from Brussels. And then what happens to them? Would you like to install them? And we don't want to settle anyone. We would like us to stop the population loss in Hungary, to slow down first, and then turn it into growth, and we ourselves would be able to populate the historic Hungary, because at the moment, the empty villages, the empty countryside, are creating a suction and vacuum effect, which, in the long term, would surely result in someone targeting these empty areas, especially if there is a population vacuum and a population surplus elsewhere. To prevent this, Jobbik clearly seeks to develop an economic and political climate so that no one has to leave this country, everyone who wants to have a child can stay here and we can populate the Hungarian countryside. Cross-checking emigration and immigration in this dimension is, of course, a valid basis for discussion, so it is possible to have a meaningful debate about the crimes, the omissions that led to hundreds of thousands of people voting with their feet, leaving this country, typically because of coercion and not because of the desire for adventure. However, it is also important to see that these Hungarian people are generally honest, hardworking, working people who find their calculation in the Western European labour market. However, the large mass of migrants arriving here is very difficult to assume, and there is no evidence that they are targeting the labour market. Their aim is primarily the social system. [[11.50]] I am very sorry that, in the end, our reactions are hardly heard by those liberal speakers who have expressed a very serious criticism here, because their reactions might lead to a fruitful debate. For example, when we have been told that most of the funds spent on border surveillance are coming from the EU, let us expose the maladministration of this. Hungary gets nothing from the EU! We don't get a stinking penny from the EU. According to the better-looking experts, membership of the EU is at least likely to pay for it, but we should definitely have an EU balance sheet that sets up the mass of money that has been sucked out by the multi-networks, being pumped out, in the magnitude of a thousand billion, and the loss that membership entails, and, of course, the benefits of membership must be quantified. But to assume and to say that we receive money from the EU on a good service basis, that is simply blabbering and not true. Hungary also has obligations to pay, Hungary also has losses in relation to the EU. So the fact that members' money is being distributed back and forth for such purposes should not mean that, because it does not mean that Hungary would get a penny from anywhere! Today's world, especially this globalized metal box, is not about helping us on a good service basis - we need to help ourselves! And the assumption is that the sources of the poster campaign, or similar resources, which I believe to be wrong, should be directly grouped into the crisis points, such as those caused by the US wars, and that we Hungarians, with the taxpayers' money, should help eliminate the crisis there, will be quite amusing. Obviously, this would be the task of the central countries of the European Union, the task of the United States of America; and the responsible political actors in Hungary, in my view, would not be to talk about rentals assigned to migrants, to organise protests because the TV room is supposed to be uncomfortable at the refugee shelter in Debrecen. It is quite amazing how unable certain political groups have become to recognize Hungarian national self-defense! At the moment, we are talking about the fact that the flood at our borders is not expected to subside. There are millions of people in Syria, Libya, and elsewhere who are waiting to target Europe, in unfortunate circumstances and in amazing circumstances. As long as one of the most popular routes leads through Hungary, it is our duty to do everything possible to make it reversible, to establish an independent border guard - where there is an ongoing dispute between Jobbik and Fidesz - and finally to keep the open hostels closed. Only in Debrecen in 2013 can local activists present a one-week period in which 36 crimes or violations have been committed by the residents of the camp, almost exclusively to the detriment of the civilian population; however, to note, for the sake of credibility, that most crimes are committed at the expense of each other by the residents of the hostels. But the fact that the civilian population is being subjected to a vesture - and we are not only talking about the fact that the clothes were stolen from the dryer rope, but they stabbed Hungarian people here! Hungarians have been looted, and criminal elements have been exposed in Debrecen, along which it was no accident that the population had signed thousands of protesting signatures. He didn't do this in a good mood. Balassagyarmaton in milder form, but similar maladministrations can be detected. For this reason, Mr Orbán's statement that the hotel in Debrecen will be closed is indeed accountable, we would like to hear specifics on this issue, and this is simply so that the civilian population must be protected from certain kinds of phenomena. And the situation in Szeged is quite amazing. There, at the end of last week, there was a peak in the current period of one or two months, and it can be seen that while urban legend has shown that local garbage-transporting craftsmen are already making serious traffic by migrants, quite amazing things have appeared; the abandoned garments, by creating a secondary market, have literally appeared on the local market and are offered for sale to the general public, are also exposed to serious public health risks. It can therefore be seen that these problems arise at systemic level in all areas concerned. It can no longer be based on the fact that Serbia would take back 30 refugees a day, and then this will solve the problem in the long term. He's not gonna fix it. In the long term, however, we have to say that it would be very good for Hungary to have a plan B in case the delayed government action test on the EU's dictatorships is insufficient, which is now ahead of us. But it is certain that in the long term, the solution can only be given if enough Hungarian children are born; if population loss and emigration also stop; if Hungarian people populate the Hungarian countryside, and then there is no possibility that tens of thousands of people will be deployed in Hungary on the basis of quotas, if any. We've had this in history, we've had almost no good with it in the last centuries. It can therefore be said that in Hungary the restoration of its own reproduction and the use of the strictest law enforcement tools can only lead to a solution; in addition to always keeping it as a footnote, those who come from real persecution need to be helped, a helping hand must be given, but not settled, and not encouraged to stay here and stay in a lifestyle, but to help them. The difference between the two is huge. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-76	I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-17-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian, in a few things. The Jobbik also says that all refugees, all those fleeing persecution, should be given a helping hand. Yes, but the bill that Fidesz has tabled and what Jobbik is supporting, we will not be able to give any refugees a helping hand. It is simply that, from the moment Serbia is appointed by the Hungarian government as a safe third country by a pen stroke, it will not be possible for those who, by the way, are moving from artificially created war zones to this area - simply because of their physical survival, they have fled Hungarian in the international legal sense of the word - neither will Hungary accept these people. That's what it means. You can't say two things at once! On the one hand, it is not possible to support a proposal that regards Serbia, our southern border, as a safe third country, and on the other hand to say that we are, of course, entitled to the protection of all refugees who are awaiting protection in the meaning of international law. If this proposal is voted by Parliament, it means that Hungary will not give a helping hand to anyone. That's what it means. From now on, Serbia is a safe third country, starting with everyone [[Happy Stephen nods.]] - Happy fellow Member nods - everyone who comes here from Syria or other war zones must go back to Serbia. The other one. Just for the sake of the data on what Daniel Z. Carpathian has just said here. In 2014, we received 456 million from the European Union to carry out asylum tasks, 385 million to return migrants and 4 billion to 310 million to border surveillance, so simply the facts show that Hungary did have significant resources from EU funds in one budget year. And one more thing: Dániel Z. Carpathian also says - I hope I will quote precisely - that we are in a global metal box. I think that's the expression. The only problem is that, after being in a global metal box, Hungary has a responsibility for what is happening in the world. And that is precisely why it cannot be done that, on the one hand, the government laments the threat to the country and, on the other hand, the Hungarian government, the Hungarian power, assists in the policy of war that otherwise triggers the refugee crisis. This should also be clearly placed on the table. Can it not be that, on the one hand, the group leader of the smaller party rightly refers to the fact that the refugee crisis itself is a direct consequence of global problems and, on the other hand, the Hungarian government has joined that war policy, and has been continuously since 2003? - virtually 25 years ago, Hungarian foreign policy has been uncritically attached to a war policy. This isn't working. This isn't working. Face the fact that what is happening today in Libya, in the Middle East, in the Middle East, in the Middle East is closely linked to the deepening of the refugee crisis. And we have to face the fact that in what has been called the Arab Spring in the Mediterranean in recent years, NATO and the European Union are responsible and Hungary is responsible for this. If what Dániel Z. Carpathian says about the global metal box is true, then we also need to see that there is a Hungarian responsibility in what is happening in the world. And that is why it is unacceptable that, while we have responsibility and we are also affected by the refugee crisis, Hungary is removing responsibility and squaring international development resources. [[12.00]] This is what I would have expected in the debate from the representative of the Hungarian Government to respond to the fact that, when they clearly see what dangers Hungary is exposed to, the direction we see today in the world, why international development resources are being lost. Mr. Péter Harrach saw very accurately that root problems must be dealt with and solutions must be found to enable people to thrive in their own homeland. But Hungary must also play a part in this. Today, there is misery and strife in many areas of Africa and Asia, and Hungary is also responsible for this. So this is not just about humanitarian aid, but if the global metal box is true, but it is about my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian, that it cannot be pointed out that for the first time at home, because the global metal box means that those problems, which can also be called a butterfly effect, let us say, in a green language, that the problems that occur in remote areas have a direct impact on what is happening in Hungary. The debate between us is that there is no way to order it here first, and then we have time to deal with what is happening in remote areas, because the global reality is quite simply different. That is why Hungary must have its own international development policy, its own international development resources, and that is why instead of making a profit, we need to take the initiative within the European Union to have a greater cooperation on internal security, anti-terrorist and immigration policy within the European Union, which is why Hungary needs to stand on its heels and not support the various newimperialist or war policies around the world. That's what I'm talking about. These questions are closely linked. Just to put Hungary's head in the sand and to say that from tomorrow we will close the borders, beyond the fact that it is inhuman in this way, in this form, and ignores the fact that if Hungary acts independently in the field of border surveillance and immigration policy, it will simply not keep its own borders. Let's see what problems Spain, a country bigger than us, is facing. There is also a need to ask why this refugee crisis is now at the borders of Europe. Who is responsible for the collapse of the Libyan State or the Syrian State while there is no plan to build a new strong state organisation there that can provide a livelihood for the people living there, and not least to protect Europe from such a crisis? These questions should also be asked by the responsible Hungarian government and the responsible Hungarian foreign policy. When you talk about what extra resources some people here want in the field of asylum, it is precisely that if we continue with the policy of sticking our heads in the sand, but, of course, in a somewhat hypocritical way, we also say that, of course, we expect all the persecuted, these two things will not work together again. Then it must be said, my fellow Member, Mirkóczki, that we are not waiting. [[Adam Mirkóczki: I didn't say that!]] Dániel Z. Carpathian said that the one who persecuted us would give us a helping hand. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian:...we wait for our hands to be stretched.]] That's right. But if we are to give you a helping hand, then it is also necessary to provide a source for these people who accept the helping hand, such as these people, to be able to integrate into the receiving medium. Today, those who live either in Debrecen or in other camps will not receive these help. I mean to learn the Hungarian language... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: God forbid!]] Well, if God forbid, Congressman Z. Carpathian, then there will be an even bigger problem, that is the big deal. So to sum up: I think that with this bill Hungary will solve nothing. Not only does Hungary face the basic humanitarian principles and the Geneva Convention; it also removes the global responsibility that Hungary has to bear. It must be seen that the problems of emigration and immigration also occur because Hungary suffers from imbalances at the same time. That is why young people leave Hungary because they cannot achieve their creative ability here, because they cannot earn enough wages here, which is enough to make a decent living, but at the same time Hungary, as a part of the European Union, is also a cause of these global imbalances. We need to see this for our own good. We also need to see that it is not the free movement of people, but rather the free movement of capital, that creates these crises over and over again in the world. It is important to see that, as far as it does not appear to be at first hearing, until, for example, speculative capital movements are controlled, global imbalances will increase, and Hungary will bear the burden of this, whether it sticks its head in the sand or not. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-78	I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-06-17-79	Mr President, Dear House, I am very glad that we can have a little philosophical discussion about the reality of the global cold and cold metal box. I'd like to lay down some disappointing groundwork on behalf of Jobbik, addressed to the LMP. When they talk about Africa's aid and development programs, Jobbik sets a clear order. Jobbik wants to settle our domestic affairs first, and then, if it has resources and capacity, it will be happy to help everyone else, but obviously there is no realistic opportunity for this in the near future. We also need to see that the restoration of border surveillance, mentioned by my fellow Member Schiffer, would not be good for throwing every refugee, every asylum seeker off the border, but, in itself, if the news in the world were not the easiest two-legged marching into the territory of the European Union through Hungary, we might not be one of the most popular routes. Thus, even with a balance shift, huge facilitations could be achieved for Hungary. But what I wanted most to be clear is that we, the good guys, would really give a helping hand to everyone who came from real persecution. But God forbid that this should end in Hungarian language education, God forbid that this should end in resettlement. We do not want to settle anyone in Hungary, we want to be able to populate our own country by restoring the power of Hungarian reproduction, and the multicultural model has completely failed. So our goal is not to settle anyone in the long run, nor can it be a sane goal in our view. The helping hand should therefore not be confused with providing social housing, voting rights and free language education for refugees, migrants or immigrants. It doesn't belong in our device system. It is our duty as a human being to help, to give a helping hand, but to a certain limit, not as a way of life, not as a long-term establishment, because we have a country of our own, and we want to preserve it for the Hungarians. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-80	I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer in two minutes.
u2015-06-17-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the one hand, I would say to Mr Z. Kárpat that I did not speak of voting rights. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I know.]] I was talking about the fact that if we offer a helping hand, it is also in our own well-informed interest that these people, who accept the extended hand, can accept the standards that are in the country of the helping hand; in Hungarian, for example, they learn the language. But I will go on: this tightening of the procedure, an inhumane procedure, also contradicts the fact that we are providing a helping hand, because traumatized people who are really fleeing out of life, from the throat of death, are in many cases not just because of the lack of language knowledge, quite simply because they are in such a traumatized state, unable to tell for days what really happened to them. That's what I'm talking about. What can not be done is that, on the one hand, we rightly point out to global problems how war policy is generated in areas, while ignoring the fact that, unfortunately, Hungary is part of this war policy, and it is also our duty to help the persecuted. We also have a debate with Jobbik that if there's a global metal box, it can't be sorted. I need it at the same time... [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] No, because Hungary will not be able to do so, my colleague Mirkóczki. [[Adam Mirkóczki: That's all he has.]] If we agree that it is in Hungary's strategic interest, for example, to say, to strengthen the local economy, to strengthen the domestic small and medium-sized enterprises sector, then at the same time it must have concrete proposals for the European Union, how, let us say, to curb speculative capital movements. If Hungary does not want to suffer the refugee crisis, it must be able to show solidarity with other European states, because it can count on solidarity itself. If Hungary does not want to suffer global crises, then in this global metal box we too have to shoulder burdens, and we also have to have solutions. That's what I'm talking about. [[12.10]]
u2015-06-17-82	I now give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-17-83	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I assure you that I do not wish to take advantage of you, but there is so much weirdness that I do not stop without saying a word, especially on the part of Szabó Timea. I'm sorry you're not here, but I trust you'll read the report. So to him, his first sentence sounded like this problem did not exist. I think that anyone who says this today about illegal migration in Hungary, that this problem does not exist, we have also explained why he is co-chair of a 0,01 percent squirrel watcher, because such nonsense cannot simply be declared in the light of the data and problem known to everyone. The other is that this is forever the most extreme liberal position on tolerance, solidarity and assistance. What if these liberal MEPs were once so tolerant of Hungarians, against Hungarian society, so in solidarity and so forth? If they got this far, I think everyone in this country would be very happy. But in particular, I would like to comment once again on the proposal: it has not been highlighted, but I think it was quite clear that we are in favour of every step that is capable of curbing or directing, to whatever extent, the flood of refugees that has hit Hungary. Of course, we will also support this proposal. However, I would also like to draw attention to a loophole. So, in the long term, I do not think that we have settled the issue of declaring Serbia a safe country, because we also need to see that as long as the smuggling gangs always adapt their strategy to the relevant legislation and opportunities and develop their own little work or plans as soon as this opportunity changes, and they will also know that Serbia will be declared a safe country from now on, let us not forget that they will obviously change the route if necessary. Therefore, there should be no doubt that, if this is what will happen, these trafficking networks will not be through Serbia, but rather through Slovenia or Romania, they will be brought in by these illegal migrants. So I also think that this is worth thinking about in advance of what we are doing, because one thing is certain that these smugglers will change their strategy as soon as such a proposal comes into force. Finally, with regard to the institution of reversibility, I would also ask the ruling parties that, given the fact that we know exactly how and how the European Union is preventing and hindering this opportunity, and why it has introduced infringement proceedings against Hungary, taking advantage of the People's Party in Brussels, if you are already members of this party family, you will also use it - we will certainly help you to change the rules that make it impossible to turn back at the border today, too, through the People's Party in Brussels. Because that may be what we want, and we may all want this to happen in justified cases, but until Brussels lets us do so, let us be honest, this will not bring any results within the current framework. And we want this issue to be clearly resolved and resolved in an exact manner, not only in the short, medium, but also in the long term. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-84	I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer for a two-minute comment.
u2015-06-17-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to add that - and it is not just about the refugee issue, immigration policy - Hungary has an interest in realising as soon as possible that there is a serious fault within Europe, also between the core countries and the so-called peripheral countries. That is why we urge Hungary, the Hungarian Prime Minister, to stand at the forthcoming European Union summit against the Greek Prime Minister and defend Greece against EU financial dictatorships. But we also need to see that Hungary can only enforce its interests within the European Union with others. That is why, in immigration policy, we go into a street - as opposed to Viktor Orbán's position in 2007 - that everyone is on their own national state path, so we abandon all kinds of solidarity, we will take and close the borders, stick our heads in the sand, sooner or later Hungary will smoke this with interest, that is what we are talking about. So to play that Serbia will somehow search for the problem or move towards Slovenia, lead to nothing good, and beyond immigration policy, it will also destroy the possibility for countries in Central and Southern Europe to cooperate with each other on serious strategic issues. That is why we say that Hungary's foreign policy strategy should be to deepen cooperation between the countries of Eastern and Southern Europe, and that it is in the fundamental interest of the peripheral countries, the peripheral countries, to have greater EU cooperation in immigration policy; I note that not only in immigration policy, but also in domestic security and anti-terrorist issues. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-86	I now give the floor to Secretary Charles Kontra.
u2015-06-17-87	If there's nothing else, then...
u2015-06-17-88	The closing will obviously be at the very end, but you won't be the one to say it, but the congressman will.
u2015-06-17-89	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I think it is important to stress that the debate for nearly four hours proves that this is a very serious and important issue, which should also lead to a good solution for Hungary. I would like to thank the people who submitted the bill, as this gives the Hungarian authorities a new opportunity to solve this very important problem, namely that we can effectively address the issue of illegal migrants, illegal border crossings and immigrants for living. It should also be stressed that this in itself is not a miracle drug, it is not an exclusive solution to the issue, but it is a very important contribution to the Hungarian authorities. We are confident that, after the consultation, we will present further legislative proposals to resolve the issue, and it is clear that government decisions will also be taken in this respect, which will help to resolve the issue. I would like to thank the participants in the debate for their views. I thank you for the fact that, given the importance of the case, it has been possible for such a long time and not only for the proposed legislation, but also for the whole of the problem. I ask this House, my fellow Members of Parliament, to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-17-90	Dear House, The debate is not over, because András Schiffer pressed a two-minute button, and I will give you the floor in two minutes.
u2015-06-17-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The fact is, however, that the proposal that has been put on the table is breaking up with the requirement of individualization. So from the moment the Hungarian government issued a decree on the basis of the bill, which considers Serbia a safe third country, Hungary has basically withdrawn the helping hand from those who are fleeing from war zones to Hungary through Serbia. That's the thing. In addition to what I said in the keynote speech, Hungary did not solve the problem with this measure at all for practical reasons. I would continue to ask that such a measure, which goes against the Geneva Convention, has clear court decisions in Germany and Hungary on the fact that, without individualisation, we will also deny asylum to those for whom Serbia is not a safe third country, beyond this situation, why Hungary will zero international development resources in the 2016 budget. So we think that, while individualization cannot be eliminated in Hungarian, it is not possible to deny a helping hand to those seeking asylum, so it cannot be done as if, in the event of the adoption of the bill, Hungary would continue to provide a helping hand to those fleeing from war zones, beyond that, I expect an answer that, if you can see precisely why Hungary is rushing into a war policy, if you can see a greater flow of refugees from war zones; and that, in the event of such a global crisis, when Péter Harrach himself acknowledged the global nature of the crisis in his speech before the Monday agenda, how unscrupulous it is that, in parallel to such a bill, which refuses to assist the hand, Hungary will virtually cancel international development funds for 2016, in the new budget. I'd expect an answer to that. Thank you very much. [[12.20]]
u2015-06-17-92	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Szilárd Németh.
u2015-06-17-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The last four hours have proved that we have discussed a very serious and very important issue, a national issue, if you will, which determines Hungary's present and future. Thus, I was entirely surprised by the comments of some of my fellow opposition Members on the left. I am thinking primarily of MSZP Harangozó Tamás and PM Szabó Timea, who have tried to bagate the whole issue and convince the people who are sitting here about this insignificance. That is probably why in their speeches a lot of inaccurate data, if you like, was made up of lies, and they tried to make the people sitting here believe it, and that is why their style was so loud, cynical, and aggressive, because in some way they had to balance ignorance and lies. It is not worth dealing with these comments, I think, but there were other speakers. They are speakers who, in the same way as in the national consultation on the subject and in the current national consultation, their party, their position, their liberal position, their liberal dogmas... - which, by the way, they really believe in, they were able to express this position here, and they did so. They were, to me, honest and convincing dogmatic politicians, who insisted that the Hungarian Parliament should primarily represent global, European, European Union values, so to speak, and put the issue of migration, illegal immigration into this constellation, and, if you will, they are convinced of illegal immigrants. I believe, however, that I can agree with those whose comments are confirmed by the national consultation data currently available to us, because the 610 thousand returned requests clearly support the government's position over 80 percent, and expect even more firm and tougher action on this issue, that we in Hungary, especially in the Hungarian Parliament, politicians sent to the Hungarian Parliament, should have the interests of Hungarians and the country in mind. We must preserve our own folk culture, our own national culture here, and ask others to respect it; otherwise, the culture based on Jewish-Christian tradition or Latin-Greece culture. On the other hand, we here must defend our own constitutional arrangement, our own laws. We have vowed to make others, and we call on others to comply with this constitutional arrangement, the articles of the Fundamental Law. And we must build an economy where we primarily put Hungarian people in a position, create jobs, and also protect these jobs on all issues, if you will, on the issue of illegal immigration. In any case, thank you very much to everyone who has spoken and shared your position on this matter with us. There was a very crucial point to the debate. Several people asked why, why now, why so. Well, it's very simple, because our entire legislative environment changed a few years ago, and now our situation has changed. If you like, we are in a situation where I am not saying this, but the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees issued a report on 2014, from which I would only present one piece of data, honourable Members: Hungary came up to 7th place in relation to illegal migration from 23rd in 2013. So we are in 7th place, and Hungary is crossing the second strongest route of the European illegal route, which is the second largest transfer route, and this is located along the Serbian border in the south-eastern part of the country. But if, for example, we consider that I, I believe, have now been receiving, for 14 weeks, a summary press observer on the subject of demography and migration, which was for the first time a five-page press monitoring three months ago, the last one I received the day before yesterday, is now presenting data, facts, articles, comments on 73 pages, so I think that this shows the significance of this too. Or if I were to give you an even simpler example: short movies on some video dividers. Last time, for example, there were several movies about the trucking in Calais, France, which appeared. They all show that there is indeed a serious situation, and we must answer this situation in any way, if you like, a national answer, a Hungarian answer. But if I were to give you the statistics again, I think the story is even more convincing, because it is clear that last year - and I am talking only about illegal immigrants - last year - 42 777 asylum applications have been made throughout the year, and today we are on the basis of yesterday's data that 57 192 people have requested asylum. I think that these are very talkative numbers, and the 100,000 predictions made at committee meetings are not expected by the end of the year - now everyone expects that more than 500 people will cross the border every day, and 514 people arrived in Hungary yesterday - but this 100 000 will be available up to the end of September, beginning of October. Moreover, we have solutions that go beyond the European Union, one way or another. We have heard that, in fact, the borders of the countries bordering with Italy have now gone beyond the European Union Schengen states, but for example, the Austrian example, I think, is quite talkative, who are planning to stop this passage in its entirety at the Austrian-Hungarian border. And those who have already passed will be deported back to Hungary. So we will be shocked not only from the southern Balkan route in this respect, but also from practically the northwest, as well as from the people living along the western border, can experience the negative nature of this illegal migration. What should we do at a time like this? It is obvious that, on the one hand, people must be involved, be informed, this is what the national consultation is about, and the posting of so-called posters - depending on everyone's temperament - on which, in my opinion, there are very simple messages and sentences for the Hungarian people, or for the bandits or gangsters who bring these unfortunate people here in practice. Taking everything they have from them, they're pushing illegal border crossings into the country with all kinds of false promises. However, I would like to tell you that not only are we the leaders of this poster, but practically all the countries of Europe, and ours, if you will, are very bright. So we refer very simply to our Hungarian national culture, our heritage, our Hungarian legal order and the protection of Hungarian jobs. Well, in Switzerland, it's the lowest one here, isn't it? [[He presents the newspaper Blikk.]] - Stopper l - Stopper l - Stopper l , immigration massive! In French, but I suppose it appeared in Switzerland in German and Italian as well. I think it is important to emphasise this because some even questioned why posters appear in Hungarian in Hungary. I think that then it could be questioned why these posters appear in three languages in the trilingual Switzerland. Well, what should we do? It is clear that we need to take more steps, and the most important thing we have already talked about here is to stop this migration outside the European Union. So, basically, migration must be stopped outside the borders of the European Union. This has more options. Obviously, in places where there is a serious threat posed by a terrorist organization called the Islamic State, military actions and other actions must be taken into account. There is a very serious international cooperation for this. [[12.30]] And, of course, aiding and boosting the economy are also very important in these areas. What is most important, however, is that we must at least partially make migration a national competence to stop migration from the competence of the European Union. The aim of this is to ensure that illegal immigrants who otherwise enter Hungary illegally and therefore illegal migrants are not allowed to enter. By the way, as long as this was in national jurisdiction, we have been able to solve this in Hungary in an eminent way, by using inter alia the detention of aliens in Hungary until 2012. The only first step of this is the bill that I have in my hand, which states that illegal immigrants can be stopped in Hungary by the government's definition of safe country of origin and safe third country. So this is just the first step, of course, to take further steps in the summer, and we must create full national competences. The Fidesz faction supports the government every step of the way. That is why we have now tabled this bill to help the government and help the Hungarian people on this issue. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-94	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Next up is the 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. István Vitányi, Attila Tilki, Attila Gelencsér, Zsolt Tiffán, Richárd Hörcsik, Ferenc Papcsák, independent motion by representatives of László Vigh T/5137. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Vigh, rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-17-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us a bill that, I think, has been on the agenda ever since the municipal elections. After the mayor election last autumn, a lot of people contacted us that the mayors' salary, which has changed, especially in small settlements, should try to improve, as several mayors' salaries have fallen downwards. And, as they say, the worker is worthy of his wages, it is important to have the right money for the right task. We have no easy business, because the settlements are very different. I belong to the smallest settlement in the country, called Iborfia, 13 people. If we are in Budapest now, the population of this big city is 1.7 to 1.8 million people. So our settlements are very different, and when they start the debate on what kind of pay is due to the mayor, then, I think this is an eternal debate. We will never end this debate, and this debate will always stand. But we have now undertaken, in this amendment of the law, to try to manage and fine-tune the changes that have occurred in the past. One such change in this bill is to abolish the rules of conflict of interest in settlements of less than 3,000 people. I mean, we just stopped the mayors from having another job. Another very important proposal is to settle the situation of those who work in public employment in settlements of less than 1500 inhabitants. After all, we would like the mayors working in these settlements to have additional resources. This is about the fact that in small settlements where there is no common office centre, they have a lot of work to do. After all, they have undertaken to deal with a lot of public workers, which, I think, is a very important area of the village's life. I used to say that if I went into a village in my constituency, I could see the quality of public workers being employed by the mayors living there, and I can see in the village's appearance that they had a very good grasp of certain things. The mayor's job is not only that, because everything belongs to him from A to Z; if a tree falls out in the settlement, if someone gets sick and there is no doctor on site, and I can tell you all the things that are going to happen to a small town mayor. Besides, we've brought in one thing now to tell the state that we should give jobs instead of aid, and that means that anyone who wants to do work, community service in a small settlement, anyone who can't go to work in the city, for some reason, is excluded from the world of work, so we're saying that they can be hired as a community worker, maybe in the Start Work Programme or anything else. I think it's an excellent thing. Meeting with mayors, I was told that they had actually achieved full employment in a lot of small settlements, because for some reason anyone who couldn't go to work could hire the mayor for community service, and everyone in the village worked. I think that's an excellent goal. We've been through the debate about whether community service makes sense. I can see in a lot of settlements that they have a lot of appreciation for community service. They do a number of activities, I highlight one or two that are important to the people who live there. In one of the small settlements, for example, they set up a small sewing shop and came from the neighbors to sew flags for them. Now they're about to sew the work clothes for the local community workers in their own sewing shed. Then, in many places, they do agricultural activities. They produce all the vegetables, fruits, and plants needed to supply the local cuisine. That's also an excellent goal. I hear solutions that in the local municipal forest, perhaps along roads, they collect the amount of wood needed for the supply of wood to public institutions throughout the winter. So there's a lot of work done by public workers that needs the mayor's guidance. After all, these workers must be provided with work equipment every morning, these work equipment must be transported to the work area somehow, these must be collected in the afternoon, these work equipment must be provided with oil, gasoline, which is also the mayor's job. And if one of these work equipment fails, then since there is no local repair site or there is no small mechanic on site, the mayor is forced to put these work equipment in his car, take it, fix it and bring it back. I told you all of this because the mayor of the small town multiplied his duties in connection with community service, in fact, who undertakes to employ between 5-10-15-20-30 people, from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. with public workers. I know a lot of examples where the mayor joins the community workers and helps with the work, points them in the direction. So the mayors took on a real village formation in which they also took up full employment. I think these people, these mayors, are entitled to a decent wage. This proposal would now be about giving the mayors a little extra funding in proportion to the number of public workers, and then the mayors would feel that the work they put on the table, the activity they do in the local community, is recognised by the state. To this proposal, I will also ask for support from opposition parties. After all, I think that this is a very good goal, and this intention, the intention of the government, is supported by everyone. I ask that these grants also appear in votes. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you for your attention and your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-96	I will ask Mr. Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah, he's signaling. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-17-97	Thank you, Mr. President. The government supports the proposal.
u2015-06-17-98	Thank you. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, the keynote speakers will be held. I give the floor to Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[12.40]]
u2015-06-17-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In the previous cycle, i.e. between 2010-14, we have decided that more than 20 years after the change of regime, there is also a need for renewal in politics. The socialist governance of the period 2002-2010 left the second Orbán government with a very difficult legacy. We know that the legacy is a bankrupt country, economically and morally, and in fact only the government's actions - the principle of shared burden sharing and a number of measures - have brought about the fact that we have not come to the fate of Greece. So the tragic public finances left to us by the socialists also justified the fact that, in the spirit of rationality and efficiency, we should start slimming down on ourselves. I believe that this was also a very serious requirement for voters, because in 2010 exactly during the campaign period, we said and promised that less politicians would be needed in terms of efficiency, and we will therefore use the mandate if we come to government. We know that this is the case, and I believe that it is actually historic that the Hungarian Parliament will carry out its task with virtually half as many Members of Parliament from 2014. Of course, this law also applied in view of the number of representatives of county municipalities, since there was also a split of the number of representatives, and this split principle or halving rule was also applied to the municipality. Together with the reduction in the number of employees and the establishment of the pay ceiling, we have also introduced strict conflict of interest rules. A very important change in this term is that, from 2014 onwards, mayors could no longer be or become Members of Parliament, and what is equally important is that Members of Parliament cannot pursue other activities of employment, so we could also say or say that we are full-time Members. We have introduced nearly similar strict rules on lower levels of policy and public administration, but we would not have wanted any stricter ones, but this situation has come up thanks to some amendments. This proposal states that there is a need to re-establish the former legislation, which only lays down a ban on the establishment of other employment relationships against the main job mayors of settlements with more than 3000 inhabitants. In the future, mayors of small settlements may thus have even more opportunities to carry out their work in addition to their mandate, that is to say, to ensure their livelihood. Ladies and gentlemen, Before the change of regime, Hungarian democracy was built on the local government, which meant that the settlements could decide for themselves and decide today who the mayor of the settlement should be, and who the representatives should be, who represents the development and progress of the settlements. I would like to emphasise this on this occasion because, as has been said, we have received several signals recently and, in fact, since the elections, and I myself have received a signal from the mayors that the appreciation of the leaders of these small settlements is not in proportion to the work they have done. In Borsod county, in my constituency, there are 82 settlements, 3 cities, and 72 settlements of the remaining 79 settlements are settlements below 1500 inhabitants. We know that, because of the unskilled labour force in these municipalities, the public work programme is the only way for the larger number of people living here, and that is why the mayors and, of course, the representative bodies they lead have more tasks, regardless of the establishment of the district system and the establishment of government offices, but the mayor's work, which has to be done, as has been said in the speech of the author, has certainly not been less, because other tasks have come to the fore. Thus, in a large part of the settlements with a population of 1500 or less, organizing public employment is, in fact, a regular task for the mayors. It is therefore appropriate, in order to ensure the efficient functioning of the legal institution, to involve mayors in the organisation of public employment tasks, which, of course, should also be recognised financially. However, it is necessary to amend the rules on conflicts of interest so that the mandate relating to public employment does not result in conflicts of interest with the mayors of the municipalities indicated. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the legislative framework for the judicial supervision of decisions of local authorities has been designed in such a way as not to create parallel procedures. Therefore, legality supervision does not, inter alia, cover municipal decisions where there is a labour or public service dispute. However, the current regime of legality supervision does not give the government office the opportunity to take action against municipal decisions when the decision contains a breach of law for the employee. The proposed regulation creates this possibility, based on recent experience, not by accident. I believe that the adoption of the bill is very important and even necessary in order to recognise the work of small settlements, but this proposal is a fundamental law that can only be adopted together with the opposition. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] Therefore, if you are serious about the fact that this situation really needs to be resolved, I sincerely ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-17-100	I now give the floor to Zoltán Gőgös, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-06-17-101	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, we're looking at a pretty amazing idea here, I mean, a lot of the proposal. My fellow Member, Mr Demeter, said that after 2010, they had made serious savings in politics. I would like to say that, since this nation state has been in place, I think that there have not been so many politicians here, and I would particularly like to refer to the number of State Secretarys, and that they wanted to save precisely on small settlements, and that clearly shows the logic of Fidesz, because they can't speak back from there, they think. I think that it was before the House and there are a lot of proposals that could normally correct the faulty decision of the governing party in 2010, in a manner appropriate to a democratic country, including Fidesz, my fellow Member is here in the Chamber, our happy fellow Member who has tabled a bill that would return to normal order so that the leaders of the settlements would appreciate the work they are doing. [[12.50]] There was a lot of talk here, and the interesting thing was that at least three quarters of the justification wasn't about community service, so why they had a lot to do. By the way, I also think that most of the work is for the mayor of the settlement under 500 inhabitants, because he has almost no office, he has no help, he is a village manager, a pharmaceutical supplier, a school bus driver, so we can tell. So what is to be done in a small settlement is 90 percent of that. And by the way, obviously, if you want to make sense of community service, you're gonna have to deal with public workers. I would consider it a very anti-democratic solution if we were to bring democratically elected city leaders into an unworthy position so that they would be in charge of the Minister of the Interior. They don't do that in normal countries, because let's just think of the situation where it might be a tight leash that I don't think my fellow Members are serious about. They say here it's a two-thirds law. Yeah, we're gonna vote with both hands that if the order to which there are several amendments is restored, almost every faction has this type of proposal, but I don't think that a normal person can give its name to this bill. You can't do that! The other is that it was also said here that this will be arranged on the basis of the number of public workers. I'd like to point out that 80 people, say, sweeping the street, are less of a task than having 10 people in an intensive gardener. How are they gonna figure that out? Who's gonna figure out which mayor he's dating or not? There was also an explanation here, and I read somewhere that this is good because almost every small town mayor's income can be settled, because 97 percent of it is affected. Then why don't we just go back to restoring the old order that was, re-establishing the kind of remuneration that was? You have to put a brake on it so that, say, in a settlement of twenty-some and thirty-some people, you can't have a half-million-forint salary, but this question could have been dealt with in other ways, not in the same way that we would have hit everyone, but also the one who was put in an unworthy position. To make less politicians - they have achieved it, because there may still be settlements where we have failed to choose mayor, and this is the result. The result of the kind of logic that, let's say, in the municipal ranking, the mayor, who is now responsible for almost everything under the new legislation, is, I don't know, what number is in the queue, but it's very far from the top, and I think it's unworthy. I also claim that they would not like this solution either. Obviously, the money is good for everyone, and it will be possible to say that if the opposition goes against it, because I am already indicating that we in this form are certainly not able to support it, because we do not want to raise the mayor's salary. The lie in this is that we can safely put forward proposals in which we partly maintained a bill that would settle this and partially put forward independent proposals for solutions. But obviously the propaganda machine behind the government, and it has unlimited financial means, it won't say that, but it just says that that crappy opposition is going up against you again and doesn't want the mayors to have a normal salary. And I'm gonna ask you back, whose brain was that crazy idea of taking the pay. It's always about who took what. Fidesz made such a stupid decision, the Fidesz government and the Fidesz faction, that it supported this, that we should take a deep breath and say, ladies and gentlemen, dear small town mayors, that we have ruined, we will fix this, but we will not order the Ministry of Interior above you in the event of a certain remuneration. This is the biggest and most anti-democracy move I've ever seen. Of course, from now on, he will be expected to implement all the ideas that will be discussed in the next bill. Besides, I don't know why we're not having a joint general debate about public workers, as well as public workers, because the next law is about how to make servants out of public workers. And that's precisely because, in principle, the idea would work if it weren't in the form in which it was written in the bill. I would suggest, fellow Members, that we should forget this bill very quickly, withdraw it quickly, and that there is another proposal from the Fidesz MEP in front of this House, which will settle this, to bring it back, and we will give you the fifth if necessary, and very, very quickly to settle this story, so that we do not leave this unworthy situation, which is currently in the hands of small town leaders. I also see that they are obviously trying to resolve the problem now that some municipalities are not interested in the rules Fidesz invented and have raised salaries because of the uncertainty of another place of law. Now it is also included in this bill that, in such cases, the administrative office will be able to act. It also shows that the public will and other things that our fellow Members and the government have come up with are different. A national consultation in 2015 would also have been helpful, as I do not think that the failure of public finances is caused by the possibility of a mayor having at least 200,000 forints in a small settlement or 250 thousand forints in payment. This is not what causes public finances to fail. If you're going to save money, you should look around to see if there are as many state leaders as there are currently in this system, because if you want to settle a case, you don't even know who to turn to, because interestingly, you're not responsible for anything. Now, that's a good thing, obviously, that you can spread your responsibilities so that no one really knows why you're responsible, so obviously you can't be held accountable. Therefore, I am asking my fellow Members, especially the presenters, to move away from this idea very quickly. Don't put such mischief, put the opposition in a position where we have to reject something that would obviously help a number of people financially, but would put it in an extremely unworthy position. We are looking forward to the bill that we have said yes to many times, and it would not be a question whether we are willing to amend, say, any two-thirds legislation on it. I'm asking you to think about what you're playing with when you come up with a bill like this, how vulnerable you can put hundreds of people, which is unfortunate and totally anti-democratic. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-17-102	I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-06-17-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP fraction supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Any justifications?]]
u2015-06-17-104	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-17-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Before I begin my speech, let me briefly respond to what my honourable fellow Member has just said here. This, in fact, will in some sense join in my speech, namely that increasing the salaries of small-town mayors would not cause public finances to fail. That will certainly not cause public finances to fail, because unfortunately, as we know, to date, and now the 2016 budget is also voted in this way, the general operating framework in the task financing system cannot pay mayors' salaries. In this regard, we have tabled several amendments to the House so that it can be paid, precisely because in many cases the mayor of these small settlement municipalities has particular difficulties in accounting for wages, if they want to do so in full-time. In many cases, they also show up in a social assignment because they have no chance of receiving full - time wages. And how good it would be if, by the way, this could be financed from the general operating framework - a single semi-spoken addition to the budget, to Annex 2 (paragraph 1) - from now on. This could, by the way, bring unheard of relief to the various municipalities of small towns, because it is really very, very difficult to manage these wages on its own income. The other thing that was also said by my fellow Member, Mr President, is that on two occasions, I myself, and on one occasion, our fellow Member Ikotity, have tabled an amendment to the House to this effect, so that the - let's say - pay table that is currently in the Mötv. and which determines how much mayor can take up or get paid should be amended. [[13.00]] If, let's say, our proposal was accepted, it would not mean more than a billion forints in total per year. My honourable Member, how much will this bill before us mean? How much extra expenditure will be reported to the government, where appropriate? It would be very good if we could see concrete figures, we could know concrete calculations, because we can determine how good or bad the proposal is. How true it is that the wages of small town mayors have been set very low, supported by the stories we hear about Hungary all over the country, unfortunately more and more by elected mayors deciding to go to work abroad. This is the saddest thing, by the way, when the responsible municipal manager decides to leave his settlement because he cannot make a living on the money that he should be paid by law. He can't find a job in his own village or in his village, and he decides to leave his native village and go abroad. Believe me, my fellow Member, we are unfortunately aware of a number of such cases. I think this is a very bad example, even if the mayors are forced to take these decisions, but they are an extremely bad example for the villagers, because they are not trying to get along at home and find a solution, but they are going abroad. These situations should be prevented by receiving a fair wage. The fact that we are now linking them to public employment so that they can get extra income is a controversial question. Well, if there's no other way to fix it, then so be it. But I would add, for the organization of local culture, for the organisation of public education, for the protection of value, for the organisation of sporting events and so on, for so much else, mayors could otherwise be added. I don't see why we don't give them. Then let us also give for them, and perhaps their income will become a wealth of the sum total, which will provide a livelihood there. It is also an extremely unpleasant and repulsive question, and in many cases it has been raised about the mayor's salary that the public employee employed by them, possibly qualified, receives more money than he himself, when he is supposed to be the employer. How can the authority of the mayor in a village community be created in this sense if his subordinate earns more than he does himself? This may be the reason why this complementary society has been linked to this, so that this unworthy situation can no longer occur, but we believe that this is a rather mule solution, and it does not preclude you from supporting our proposal, or even the Happy Representative. Although, I would add, the second proposal you have put forward is that there would be a higher category of settlement mayors between 5 and 10 thousand people. There is a debate between us in this regard, because I do not see the justification for this as well as the mayors of small settlements, but let us assume that this is the least conflict between us. I do not think that, by the way, it precludes this other bill from coming before the House and being adopted. Moreover, what is still included in the bill is the elimination of the failure to prevent conflicts of interest and the creation of a legal relationship for other work, not under 1500, but under 3,000 people. It's okay, we support that. What I do not really understand, and I would very much ask you to tell me is why, if the legality supervision procedure has not been extended so far and can now cover the fact that, even in the case of public employment disputes, in the event of a breach of legislation for the benefit of the worker, the supervisory procedure may not be initiated in the event of a breach of legislation at the expense of the worker. So why is it always in his best interest? I understand that there is a historical history of this, and now this situation needs to be dealt with ex post in this way, but I think that the opposite can also occur in a settlement, perhaps it would be worth extending this situation a little. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-17-106	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-06-17-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For the many times, you have reached out to the law on the municipalities of Hungary adopted in 2011, which clearly indicates that this law did not go well, otherwise you would not have to do so much to untie and modify. In fact, there are problems that arise over and over again in what the May Other Politics has previously drawn attention to and wanted a solution to. Now we see that such a minor change will be passed through this law. Actually, there's nothing wrong with that, there's only one problem with it: very little and it doesn't treat the problem in its roots. The reason for the current legislative amendment is precisely that small town mayors have reduced their salaries and earning so little that they are virtually unable to carry out the task which is imposed on them. For example, the organisation of public employment. I met with mayors myself, who said that they would be interrupted to take responsibility for these people, and they had to solve the problems of the settlement with virtually little income, plus to provide public employment. So it's actually a long-standing problem, but I'm asking you, why don't you use this opportunity to settle these people's income situation once and for all. It wasn't so long ago that we couldn't remember when Fidesz was playing a role as a defender of municipal rights and small settlements during socialist governments. We remember what kind of vehemency they took in the race when they feared for small mail, spoke against the abolition of schools, defended railway lines and the right of small settlements to self-government. Are you forgetting all this now? What's changed since then, I ask you? Why don't you do it now? Now they're on the wheel, they could, but they're not doing it now, and we're seeing the exact opposite. In comparison, in the previous cycle the Government of Orbán implemented a local and administrative reform that clearly changed the system to the disadvantage of small settlements. They've reduced autonomy, diverted resources, basically placed the apparatus under guardianship. In the formal justification for measures that adversely affect small settlements, it is said that the local administration, in your opinion, is wasteful, has excess capacity, and refers to overpaid mayors who abuse their power, and they claim that small settlements are virtually scapegoats for the mistakes of the municipal system. Yes, these are statements from the pro-government side. On the other hand, may Other Politics consistently stands up for the independence of villages and the preservation of local public services, and for all the people who try to operate these settlements under such harsh conditions. That is why we have tabled our proposal to raise the remuneration of small-town mayors before the autumn municipal elections, and that is why we repeated it after the elections. Even before the big changes, we drew attention to the fact that even if, at first hearing, the arguments of the governing parties appear logical when discussing a cost-effective administration, it is worth considering that it is indeed the local mayors whose pay is the cancer of problems. Of course not, it's not like that. This finding was not supported by any survey, no one examined the exact cost to the budget of maintaining small settlement offices, the remuneration of mayors and the public service being carried out by a municipality. Technically, this was done on the basis of a lawnmower principle. Turning to this bill, which we are discussing, it is basically that mayors of small settlements who are active in public employment will in some way be compensated for their efforts and mitigate the necessary conflict of interest rules. However, it is not possible to draw attention to the fact that, according to the current rules, the remuneration of the mayors of the settlements under 500 has decreased to approximately HUF 149 thousand gross per month. This gross amount is HUF 90,000 net, and you expect these people to supply their office for this net HUF 90,000. [[13.10]] This also results in the head of the settlement in many cases getting less benefits than his employees can bring home, and it is possible that the mayor will receive nearly as much wages as the auxiliary worker he employs is a public employee or less than a professional worker who is a public employee. So we are talking about a very problematic system on a number of sides as well. By the way, the system had already pulled out many mayor candidates, there were numerically much fewer candidates in the 2014 municipal elections than in the past, and there were even some municipalities where there were no candidates for the mayor's office. What does all of this mean? This further strengthens the demise of small settlements, the slippage of the countryside, the depopulation of small settlements, and the demoralisation of small settlements. The reduction in the number of people living in small settlements also results in less political participation in the representation of people living in small settlements, which is why the quality of public services in these places is deteriorating. I could also say that the people who live there become second-rate citizens in this country. It adds to this when they have no first man or underpaid so much that their own livelihood doesn't come out of it. Overall, I can tell you that this situation is far from being resolved, and with this proposal, this will not be resolved. I'm telling you, they're trying to remedy a very serious and unfair situation on some level, which has, in fact, threatened public works in many cases. I've heard mayors complain, too, that it's not expected for the small money they're getting, besides running the settlement, to organize a community service program. But you let it go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. More and more services are now available only in neighbouring settlements or cities, the possibility of local administration is narrowed, the decision is not made where people live, the requests are not taken by the local administrator who knows the locals. In my experience, many cases are not in the very beginning to reach the forum where they would be appropriate, and at all local people will have less and less say in basic public service management matters. At the same time, it can be observed in many cases that poverty problems have become unmanageable in cities, and poverty is spread to the countryside. In practice, there is a phenomenon that some of the social problems are exported to the Hungarian countryside, but the public services required to deal with them are not available in small settlements, so there will be no way out for the Hungarian countryside. In LMP's vision of the future Hungary, the small settlement is an important economic, mainly agricultural and food industry player as an integral part of the neighbourhood. Our aim is for strong communities in small towns to control their own destiny, which base their autonomy on their own economic strength and self-sustaining capacity. We believe that the whole country, Hungary, will benefit, and that we can build a strong Hungary if small settlements can have a strong local intellectual base and a layer of farmers, consisting of citizens who take responsibility for the natural and cultural environment that is important for their local identity and who can demonstrate solidarity locally. We have this vision, and we're asking for help. Now you are on the government, but remember what you said earlier about the Hungarian countryside. You guys have to liven up to your experiences. I would like to move the processes in this direction, because with such absolution and absolution, this system, which seems almost irreversible in many places, will not be able to change. I would like to remind you that you, as party of government, have a historical responsibility to try to reverse the depopulation of the Hungarian countryside and to take steps towards the achievement of the strong countryside that we have proclaimed and which you have previously declared. What I can say is that the current legislative amendment proposal is the scratching of the surface of a big problem, so to speak, a very, very under-tuned treatment of this whole problem. I ask you not to stop here, but to go on and do everything you can to ensure that a strong Hungary can be born, which is unimaginable without a strong countryside. Thank you.
u2015-06-17-108	Ladies and gentlemen, No comments were submitted in advance in writing, but in a normal time frame, MEP István Happy applied. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-17-109	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I think in this law, we should clarify who we're talking about. I understand Bernadette Szél, who had a vision of the countryside and everything here, but I even remember - because I was sitting here, and I was the one who was outraged to reject - what his fellow Member said to the mayors of the small settlement four years ago: he is a powerful vigilante. You'll have to look back, please. This was said by a representative of your party at the time. I think we need to clarify who the mayor of the small settlement is and what his job is. Since I was mayor of a small settlement for 20 years, I have a little insight into it, and since I regularly communicate with not only the mayors of my constituency, but also the mayor of small settlements in many parts of the country, I know very well what their work is today. It is safe to say that the vast majority of mayors in nearly 3,200 settlements in the country consider the mayorship to be a life mission and service, whether independent or in the colours of a party. When he is elected, from the smallest settlement to the largest, to Budapest, he has one goal in mind: to develop the settlement according to his best knowledge and talent. The appreciation of this work has, in my opinion, been taken away with a unfortunately flawed pay sign; it must be acknowledged that we have taken this. I must tell you frankly that I have tabled an amendment to the bill before us, although I would really like us to amend the original table. I think that the wages of municipal mayors should be guaranteed by law and recognised. Now there are rare moments when I agree with my fellow Member, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, too. But what does a mayor do? A mayor must be at the disposal of the inhabitants of the settlement from 0 to 24 hours after his election and the oath. And I can't even say that it's only in the settlements of 13 people, and it's not so in the settlements of 10,000 people or over 10,000 people. Obviously, this is particularly true in a small settlement where everyone knows the mayor, where everyone turns to him for all the problems. I'll give you an example. Recently, a mayor on Transdanubia told me that his phone rang at midnight - what he could do, he answered it, because he always had to answer - and the elderly lady living two streets away called that Mr. Mayor, there was a huge problem, the light went out in the kitchen - you know, the light bulb - and it should be replaced. And, of course, he understood that the old lady was frightened, and he just asked him: "Go now, or you can change it in the morning." Now, that's a mayor in a small town. And that was just one of the many examples. But I can give you my own example. One time in 1999 at 4:00 a.m., one of the inhabitants of my village, who was scared because of the heavy rain in his garage, rushed to me, saying that Mr. Mayor, the water had flown into the garage, that something had to be done immediately. What could I do? I got up, I went and pumped the water. Because it's the job of a mayor. It's the job of a mayor, especially in a small town, all the people who turn to him. It may be said that this is not described in the municipal law, and it would not be, but I think that a good mayor, who considers what he is doing as a service and a career, is acting on the problem that the resident is looking for, he wants to help, and if he can, help. [[In the notary seat, Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi.]] We're shot at lying on this proposal. My amendment has not yet come before this House, although I am confident that it will be here sooner or later. I must be honest with you that the proposal requires a lot of improvement. Since mayors' salaries and incomes should be improved as soon as possible, I thought I would tell you the problems that I see and my fellow mayors see in this proposal. In order to make a decision as soon as possible, I naturally support the proposal, but I would like us to improve this proposal because, in my opinion, it is not true that it is only the municipalities under 1500 who need help to the mayors. [[13.20]] The mayors must be helped even in the pay sign of between 5 and 10,000 people, because their salary has been reduced there. The salaries of mayors who served this service 5-10-15-20 years ago have been down. The current proposal can remedy this, especially if we do not bind 1500 people. Why don't we tie the 1500? Do not tie it, for example, because in my district there is a settlement where 1700-1800 people live and have been twice in the best community service settlements. This settlement, the mayor of which, according to this proposal, for its excellent public work - which the Ministry of Interior has already admitted twice - could not receive any extra support just because there are 200 more people living in this settlement than in another settlement, and I say once again that the best public work in the country has been twice so far. In this settlement, houses are built from their own beat-up cataracts, there is livestock, there is a cheese factory, there is an acidification plant, there is a soda factory, there is a gardening plant, there is livestock. Do you want me to list it? It is not good to tie 1500 people either because I would say another settlement, and this other settlement is Cibakhaza, where more than 4 000 people live. Please, in this settlement, there are more than 100 public workers, fish-frying, gardening, making their own tiles, making the market themselves, doing all the maintenance themselves, and practically everything from livestock to small-scale wood. I don't think the mayor of this settlement, just because there are 4,000 people living in the settlement, can't get extra benefits. Just as I don't think that it couldn't be in a settlement with 6-8 thousand people, because there too, the mayor has to be actively involved in this work, because it doesn't work without it. It is likely, by the way, that for each type of settlement, regardless of the number of inhabitants, the mayor has work to do with him. But why is 1500 still not good, and why is it not good to tie it to community service? In our opinion, because there are settlements with a population of less than 1,500 inhabitants, but there is no public service or there is very minimal. Why no community service? It's because they're either next to a settlement with a lot of jobs and everyone's going to work there, or by the way, the mayor himself was there until there were enough jobs in his own small settlement, even in the town of 700 people, to run out of unemployed people. Now, shouldn't we value his work because he did everything he could to get a job in his settlement? Can't he get a paycheck? Therefore, what I have tabled for this law, an amendment, is about abolishing the ceiling, the councils of representatives, the municipalities who can govern themselves, in any case deciding whether the mayor is doing extra work either with public workers or in other areas - I will say - or is not doing it - he deserves to be raised, given extra benefits or given extra benefits. I believe that this can always be decided by a body of representatives, as the body of representatives could always decide before the adoption of the law, that it had taken the salary of a mayor to the lower, middle or upper level of the payment category of the settlement defined in the previous law, the previous municipal law. It was always decided by the board, there was no fixed amount, there was a border, and it was decided by the board. I think that is still feasible. The reason why I wouldn't tie you to community service is just so the mayor can get an extra grant, because in settlements under 1500 people, you can't just tie it to it because there's no public service at all. In my proposal, it would also be possible to include other tasks of urban development and community organisation that are not part of your job, which would also give you additional benefits. If he doesn't have community service, then there are local development tasks, just to say one thing, like monitoring applications and writing applications. In the small settlement, mayors write the applications, but otherwise, in the small settlement - I only say community organisation - the events that we say are organized by all kinds of event organisers in Budapest are done by the mayor. I've always organized the lowland rattle food festival - still today, but another question, I'm no longer mayor - is always organized by the mayor. So there is no such thing, no such condition can be made, that for a particular task - in which we fully agree with Mr. Haughty - it is not possible to say that only for such a task, there are tasks that can still be rewarded, so to speak, by the mayors. What I would like to achieve and ask for your support is that we really do for the mayors, so that the mayors who do everything for their settlement do very well, get a salary supplement once we have ruined their wages, and not just tie this pay supplement to community service, but give the bodies a free hand. Then the municipalities, the councils of representatives, can decide whether to reward their work in public employment or to reward community organisation tasks, because they may organise a good sports team or anything else, organise health lectures, or organise a health survey for which the mayor could receive additional benefits. There are very active mayors who can do all these things, so I think this is very important. It may not always be possible in this House, but I would like to quote József Nyirő, whom, I know, there are many people here who respect and who do not; József Nyirő says that the winners will never give up who give up, those who can never win. I think that the Hungarian mayors, who are lifelong and conscientious in their work, are the winning types, who will never give up developing their settlement and will never give up creating a better life in a settlement. I am asking that we therefore support this proposal and therefore support the amendments that I have tabled. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-110	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-06-17-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, During my time as a representative, I have found that it is essentially, as has been said above, the mayors in the small settlements who need to engage in a wide range of work activities. In a larger city, there are obviously sub-Mayors with a professional task, many others who help this work, but it is a fact and a fact that in small villages and small settlements, the mayors do everything without exception. Then, of course, the question of Habitius is how this works, but what I have seen in recent decades is that the vast majority of small-scale mayors reach out in an absolute way with good intentions and will to do what is in the best interest of their settlement and the people in the settlement. That is why it was a shock to me when the pay sign, which was mentioned earlier, was not only cut off but mutilated, and that is why it seemed a little cheeky, a little cheeky - in your own words - all the way that this amendment proposal was brought to the walls of the House. It was my fellow Member, István Happy, who admitted with pure spirit that this was a wrong decision. It really was, and I'm not saying it because I'm sitting on the other side of the political horseshoe, but because all of us saw and knew, but maybe many of you didn't think about what they were doing to these people, to the people, to the small town mayors, who take responsibility, and, in the meantime, in terms of material welfare, they might have a lot less resources than they take responsibility for. Many times, in many cases in a given settlement, the mayor serves for less money than the source of public employment or their management, in a good sense. This isn't right. If you're thinking straight, you can't say it's okay. It's not right! It's not right, it's important to appreciate people who have a job for the public and about thousands of events like what we've just talked about - from water pumping to lamp change and many other things - yes, every hour of the day, if necessary, they'll be okay at night. [[13.30]] I know many mayors, and I was also an individual representative of a constituency where there were almost only small settlements. There were 700 settlements, 700-800 settlements, the mayor of which, despite the fact that this settlement has 700-800 inhabitants, has come to Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County with consistent work, personal example and a multitude of followers, in a disadvantaged area, that this settlement has been classified as Hungary's most prosperous, most beautiful settlement. I'm talking bridge cutters. Things don't turn out that way on their own. It's a powerful influence, a mayor's influence on these processes, their evolution. I would therefore like to say that the decision that the majority of the walls of this House have given birth to small town mayors in relation to their remuneration has been unworthy; it is unworthy, I think it is dishonest and unfair. You sacrificed these people on the altar of politics, these people's wages, and now you want to bring them back with such a clever twist, and in such a way as to make them dependent. You know, because of the mayor's office, it's the honor fee that's there as a consideration for the work, as an objective standard, that should float up ahead of us, not political affiliation. If you look at it, the vast majority of mayors have been chosen, especially at small establishments, not on the basis of political affiliation. They probably knew the man; they probably experienced his attitudes from his past, these were dominant, these were moderate. It wasn't about left-right-left-right-left, any, no, it was about what he was doing as a human being and what he was doing for that community. Then you don't want to tie them to shackles now. Then you don't want these people to be held captive by a government or government minister, the Ministry of the Interior. No, they're independent people, they've been elected for themselves in the vast majority of them. You don't want to bring a situation to life, the result of which is that in the future, these people, if only seemingly, will be able to fit in with you. Not even because in politics - you know it - there is no such thing as eternity. This is, in some sense, a rotating stage. Where you are, where we are, where others are - no one knows who they are - thanks to the people, people always govern, and it is not good to adapt their activities to political motivations. No, their fees should be independent of your politics and everyone's politics. You don't want to cage them, you don't want to make mayor's gratitude money. No! They should be fair to ensure that their fees represent the value that their work otherwise requires. My fellow Member, László Vigh, spoke about how important it is to work on public employment instead of aid. I would like to say that I fully agree with him, with the addition that, of course, coupled with a fair wage. You know, if we think seriously - I do, I hope you do too - that, in Hungary's cumulative disadvantaged areas, public employment is a necessary, inevitable form of work, in which it is useful to create value if possible, if we can achieve this, then within these limits, there is no less money to be paid than five years ago, but more. Five years ago, people working within the framework of public employment had 60 200 forints in their hands, not their gross, not what they had in their hands. Now it's 51-52 thousand forints, and if you look at the purchasing power of this, it's around 40,000 forints. That is, your two-thirds government has taken away one third of the purchasing power of their wages from the public. That's not the job of a two-thirds government. Your job is not to take one third of people's money's purchasing power, but to strengthen the position of the most disadvantaged people in everyday living. And it is also his job to ensure the same conditions in the world of work. I'll give you an example. I have been saying this for five years, even within the walls of Parliament, on a multitude of committee meetings, there is no change in it. You have produced a labour law which, within the framework of the Code of Work, does not have the same rights as those employed by the public. I'll give you an example: when establishing supplementary leave, it doesn't matter how much service he's had in the last 20 to 30 years. It doesn't matter how many children he raises. In the context of this relationship, of course, it counts for a man within the framework of the Code of Labour. Where's the identity? They're both doing meaningful, possibly decent work, creating value, if possible. Well, these anomalies should be resolved. Returning to the mayors, I see it as my happy fellow Member has said, in many cases not only the smallest, but not only in the case of settlements under 500 or less, or less than 1500 people, everything we are talking about is true. In settlements of four to five thousand, less than ten thousand, similar problems and problems can be faced and faced. I'm not sure it's the same extent and proportion as it is in small settlements, but that there are problems, it's clear. In this sense, it is much fairer, fairer, and, as I said, a more politically acceptable solution is to go back to the pay table that has been swept down by virtue of their political interests, and not to say things and political shackles, trying to determine the lives of the mayors in the coming period. The mayors shouldn't be tied to a ledge. You can't! I told you, politics isn't forever. You have a mandate for governance for nearly three years, and I don't think anyone in this House knows how to proceed. People will decide, but if they don't decide that you do, then others shouldn't have the tools in their hands that you want to draw for yourself. You don't have to, you don't have to control the government, no, the mayors. Instead of paying their fees, they think of such incorrect solutions. This is not acceptable, cannot be supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party, but with respect we would like to ask you to reconsider what we are talking about within the walls of Parliament. Think about it and do all that not try to be committed, superficially at least, to the mayors and local governments, but to the work they are doing for their own settlement. My fellow Member, Zoltán Demeter, just to be clear and clear, once again, I say that the fee is an objective measure of the performance of the tasks, of the recognition thereof; the fee, and no other imaginary tasks that bind me to that government, to that policy, to that Member, is not. No! [[13.40]] You may think that today, with regard to 82 municipalities, if such a system is brought to life, it will personally bring you political benefits. On the surface, it may seem so, but in reality, the situation is quite different. Where appropriate, it triggers hatred, provokes unspoken hatred, and creates a situation that can further reduce your corrupted political support. This may not appear to be the case on the surface, but in the depths where people and even the mayors of small towns take positions in connection with discussions, do not believe, my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, that this is so supported. Of course, money is important, living is important. That's not what the small town mayors are gonna be fighting against. But with the attitude they're sending to them that they've been elected by people without political affiliation, that they didn't pick up a flag or a logo, and then you force them into this situation, they don't like it either. Therefore, common sense dictates that I would rather suggest to ourselves, all of us, that we reflect on what my fellow Member, István Happy, has said in your ranks, because they can be based on them, because their multitude rests in a sense, in an experience that does not look at it from the outside, but is based on living. So, with all due respect, I just want to ask you to step over yourselves, forget this distorted path you've run in this regard, and submit a bill that will bring back the pay table that you have liquidated to the mayors of small towns. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2015-06-17-112	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Szél for a two-minute comment.
u2015-06-17-113	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not a small-town mayor, I'm just a congressman who wants to do everything for them, and I've received a letter from a small-town mayor in the last few minutes. So allow me to ask his question to the honourable representative of the government present. Because this mayor has revealed in this proposal that the mayor's payment supplement, Mr. Secretary of State Pogács, is subject to public service work. But the mayor also drew attention to the fact that public service is decided by the government as such, and the fear that there will be mayors who will receive both, and there will be those who will receive nothing. I would like to ask the Honourable Secretary of State to respond to this situation, that if this proposal is kept and it is not extended in the direction that every small town mayor can receive a payment supplement, then how will you be able to deal with the assumption that money is being distributed on a political basis here.
u2015-06-17-114	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-17-115	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Well, this is a very real problem that the congresswoman has raised. I've been thinking the same thing about what happens when they take the public workers away because they don't, and then the money's gone. I would very much encourage my fellow Members, what Mr Happy said about the amendments, in order to support them, and I also believe that we should not draw a line at 1500 people. So it's the worst thing we can do. I would like to suggest to the Secretary of State that, as the state head responsible for public work, since it seems that this is something that needs to be settled in the long term, it is also obvious that a 100-person public employment is a medium-sized enterprise category. That can't be entrusted to a mayor, it's not appropriate, because here's what can happen: it's either what the mayor can do, or it's a job that doesn't make much sense. Therefore, if it seems so, because then it seems that there is a source of additional benefits to the municipalities in public works, then the municipalities should be able to decide what kind of management supplement they would want in line with the profile of the locality, not to the mayor, but to a person who is, say, skilled and professional in that activity. Perhaps then it would be possible to make public work more organized and more effective. There's a lot of good community service examples. They are usually linked to the mayor's profession, where, in a lucky situation, they come together as, say, a gardener or a man of such veins, and can operate such an activity with very good efficiency, but it is no longer certain that he can operate a sewing rod with very good efficiency, because there is an example of such a thing, or even a cataclysm or something else. It is also worth noting the experience that other forms of public works, such as forestry, are usually effective. It is effective because it takes place within the framework of forestry enterprises, and it has been a long time since there have been such samples, and I myself have managed such a 100-person program where we have planted forests. That was a one-year program, and then another year of nursing. It was very, very professional and fair work, people of gypsy origin, most of them, because they lived in that area. That's what I'm saying, if we're thinking this way, or if we're thinking about putting an extra source in this system, because then we need to put an extra source in this, then let's not mix these two things up. The mayor's remuneration, let's face it, let's put it back in its place; the settlements are based on what my happy fellow Member has said, and then they can decide whether or not their mayor, representing him, is sufficiently overwhelmed. There are grown people living in that settlement. If they don't behave this way, they won't be elected the next time, so from here on out, that can't be a question. And the management of community service should be entrusted to professionals who, let's say, know that kind of activity. I'd recommend that for consideration. Of course, we'll look at that amendment. But gender, which we have said, does not apply to the basic proposal, which concerns a very narrow area, but if it can be improved with that amendment, then, of course, we also obviously consider it eligible. But what we want is for the law to regulate it, and the settlements to decide what and how much remuneration they give to their mayor. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-17-116	I now give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr for a two-minute comment.
u2015-06-17-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to draw your attention to one thing. The fact that, in terms of public employment, even when labour network systems existed and operated, there was some type of activity, i.e. on what basis the distribution of opportunities for public employment should take place. They smashed these network systems, didn't they? We are now living in the time when mayors, the leaders of the settlement, and the senior officials of the labour centres, who are failing, are putting forward these proposals, so to speak, to some political commissaries. Then the leaders of the district offices decide, of course, not on purpose, not by saying this decision, but by suggesting it. You know, Secretary of State, this rightly raises the question that, if this system is built, the Ministry of Interior will pay the mayor, which, I say, will chain them as political prisoners, in a way that all mayors will indeed receive. Or you'll have the Fidesz congressmen lining up, and they'll say yes, not here. How's this gonna work? As far as I can see, your behavior with regard to many other uses, at least doubts can be expressed with a calm spirit on my part. What they want to do is absurd and unacceptable. Return to normal. Return to receiving your fee on the basis of a fair wage table funding, your fair fees to small town mayors! Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-118	I now give the floor to Mr István Happy in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-06-17-119	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would also like to ask my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, to support my amendment. I agree with you, too, once again, to tidy up the billboard, but right now, the billboard is not on our table. [[13.50]] This proposal, on the other hand, lies here, and I think that with the amendments I have tabled, you can also have a guarantee that no one is dependent on public work, and that there will be public work or no public work, because the body of representatives can give you other areas. And it would certainly be in the hands of the Members, and it would not bind the hands of the Members to the number of settlements in which they can be given, because, as I have said, there are also under 1500 settlements where there are no public works, because there are no unemployed or at least a very small number of people, and the mayor is very good at his job, and he deserves the extra allowance, and there are also over 1500 people who have a lot of public workers, or there are no public workers. My suggestion is to correct exactly the thoughts that have come up with you. So it does not depend on public work, because it can be given to two other areas; I think that these can be decided by the local body. And he's also remedying the fact that they don't only get them in settlements over 1500. I have given these examples, but I could give examples of such examples, where there are fantastic public works in settlements of more than 1,500 people. For example, I could say Jánoshida, where my friend Béla Eszes runs his own mill with the municipality and public workers. So there are really, really good examples, very good community service, if you're in good hands, and these good hands are always, I think, the mayors who control it. That is why I am asking you to support the proposal for additional benefits. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-120	I would like to inform Mr Nándor Gúr that I cannot give him two minutes, but I can give him normal time, so if he changes, he can comment on a normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2015-06-17-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President, but I won't be longer than two minutes, normally. Thank you very much. My fellow Member, István, is happy. I guess I'm not the only one who can say what I'm saying. I believe that on behalf of many of us, and perhaps even I can say that I am not sure that it is only on behalf of the fellow Members of the Hungarian Socialist Party. I think anything that doesn't tie the mayors to political shackles doesn't quote mayor's gratitude money from the government itself, the government's given organ, the Home Office, the Fidesz, it doesn't matter how we put it, if the government has a different color, then it doesn't matter. So in any such thing that is independent of it, and improves the remuneration and fees of small town mayors, you can count on me to do so. It's not just me, I think it's a lot of us. I really, really, really want to ask you to forget politics in this story. Forget your political interests. Do not run a distorted course in this regard, fellow Members. Simply bear in mind the interests of small settlements, settlements and people living in settlements, and that the people who lead them should receive fair recognition and appropriate fees. So a word, like a hundred, I want to say that in this respect, if this bill is released from political shackles, then I am sure that my fellow Member can count on me. Thank you very much. [[Happy István and Zoltán Gőgös applaud. Nándor Gúr will take his seat as notary again.]]
u2015-06-17-122	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. I therefore close the general debate and ask the rapporteur if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Congressman László Vigh has the floor.
u2015-06-17-123	Thank you very much. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support, because I see that representatives of all the parties are in favour of increasing the salaries of mayors of small settlements. What I see is that the debate between us is more about how. There have been a lot of suggestions about this. I think there have been more proposals to consider. What my fellow Members have indicated, on the other hand, is what I would like to respond to. At the very end, Zoltán Gőgös, my fellow Member in MSZP, said that the mayor only deals with or employs public workers with what he knows. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I said this as an example!]] I'd like to protect the mayors here. The mayors, as far as I'm concerned, are handymen in small settlements, almost everything, because if they build a building, he intervenes in architecture, if they invest in public works, he's there. So, in fact, I wouldn't degrade them to employ only the segment they know how to do. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You've got it all wrong, Laci! I didn't say that!]] They're obviously more sympathetic when they do something about their profession, but I think the mayors do a lot of things, and they do a lot of things. My proud fellow Member began by saying that the Minister of the Interior would be the boss of the mayors. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The one who pays is the one who plays the music. Sic!]] I'm sure you know the municipal law, the congressman, the body of representatives, is the mayor's boss, and believe me, MEPs make reasonable decisions, taking into account the interests of the settlement. So I wasn't afraid of the mayors and the small congressmen there to decide the way they did for their settlement. [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]] What you said is very interesting to say that 80 people are sweeping and 10 are gardening. I think two extreme examples. By the way, you're absolutely right, because in a garden - I just spoke to a mayor, the mayor of a 250-person settlement, and he said that they took the sugar pea and had 30 crates, and they have to sell it today. So it is clear that employment has ten or twenty times as much work to do for a mayor of gardening, agriculture, livestock, public benefit, it is clear, so we agree. But believe me, going down to this level is a very interesting question. The topic of not running for mayors in settlements has emerged, and this opinion has come from several parties. And I don't think that's true. Each extreme case can be highlighted. Everybody say 3,200, I'll tell you how many municipalities there are: 3175. I think at the municipal election, I may not remember correctly, there were two or three settlements where there was no mayor candidate. Two, three, four, five, six of the other settlements were running for mayor. At the very end, Congressman Haughty said that the government was going to take away public employment. It's the opposite. [[Zoltán Pride: I didn't say that!]] So if they took it, they wouldn't get paid, they had a sentence like that. [[Zoltán Haughty nods.]] But it's the opposite. If you've seen the 16 budget, there's an extra resource added to the public employment, so let's not just take it away, but strengthen it. My colleague, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, says that there are extreme cases where mayors go to work abroad. [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] It's something you can lift. It's similar to when the television says that a man who went home from work died today, we don't add, and 10 million came home. You can say an extreme, but I don't think it's general. The congresswoman asked why we were giving money for this, and I wrote down this sentence. I would like to join my happy fellow Member. Perhaps there are so many differences between us in this debate, and I can say to all those involved in the horseshoe that I was mayor for 20 years, and a little bit we see things differently, not hurting the speakers; so whoever is in the system worked inside. You can see the words of those who worked inside, and you can see the words of someone who doesn't live in the village, who doesn't live in the countryside, who didn't have a mayor, so you approach this thing differently, and I respect that because you see the same things from a different place than we do in the country. To the point that my fellow Member, Bernadett LMP, is not protecting small settlements. That's not what the tree's been about lately. I'm sure you'll remember that they said that the settlements are over because they're struggling with such a large debt. We gave back 1,200 billion. So the municipal system is indebted. And why is he indebted to you? Because there was a school in a settlement where, I say one number, it cost 100 million to run the school, and we got 40 million, and we had to add 60 percent, 60 million. The state has now taken over schools from the settlements, exempted them from being indebted to. He's settled their debt, he's got the school under state control, we've established joint municipal offices. Do you remember what they said when they set up joint municipal offices? I'll give you the joint opposition position: this is the end of the villages. [[14.00]] Only one village hasn't been taken off the village sign that we've closed it down. So we and everyone were alarmed that with the establishment of the common municipal office and the number of 2 thousand, the settlements were finished, but they did not end. In the same way, each settlement has its own budget, and there has been no debate about it. I have written here at the very end that it shows that many people are watching the activities and operations of the village mayors from Budapest. I can see it's a little too far. My fellow Member, István, announced the abolition of 1,500 people. Congressman Nándor Gúr said that we would make the mayors dependent, that they would be prisoners of the Minister of the Interior. I don't see this. By the way, the congressman has given a rather interesting position. He said that they should be given complete freedom. Well, there's a certain limit in the settlements. I understand that a small settlement should have not only political but also economic freedom, but that economic freedom should be limited to a certain extent in order to link certain payments to the size of a settlement, employment. Nevertheless, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their contributions. I think we're on a road, and there's a consensus between all of us that the mayors of small settlements should be paid off. I think the debate comes from how. I hope that this is a first step, and then the other good decisions come through the modifiers, and the mayors of small settlements may feel after a while that they are paid for what they have worked for. With all due respect, since there is a two-thirds point in this bill that this first step, if a opposition party were to support it, would be possible for the mayors to obtain money. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Which part is that?]] It should not be a stamp that we cannot give them extra benefits because one of the opposition parties did not support them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-124	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. The 2011 CVI on public employment and public employment and amending other laws will now follow. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission was made in T/5141. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-17-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The government's long-term goal is to achieve full employment in cooperation with the business world. Any person of active age who is able to work and who wants to work must have the right job. Public employment is also closely linked to this, the primary objective of which is to ensure that the number of employees participating in the primary labour market is as soon as possible. There is an increased need to work in the framework of simplified employment, especially during agricultural seasonal work, between 1 May and 31 October. In this way, we want to ensure that job seekers, even those in a public employment relationship, can participate in the work as much as possible. In other words, public employment programmes should not prevent employers from meeting their labour needs. An important primary objective is to keep and return workers to the primary labour market in all cases. The measure on the basis of which the public employee may be excluded from public employment if he does not accept the job offered in the framework of simplified employment and therefore has an important interest in taking the job. The other regulation, which also concerns public employment, is that if a worker has an employment relationship other than that of public employment and is terminated by termination of employment or by mutual agreement, he cannot participate in public employment for three months, eliminating the obstacles to not being placed on the primary labour market as a result of financial benefits received for work under the relief scheme and public employment. On the basis of the proposal, it will also be easier to meet the seasonal labour needs of employers by means of a measure whereby the employer can report to the municipal mayors the number of employees he wishes to employ. The mayor shall inform the employer of the persons who meet the labour needs of the job seekers residing in the municipality, using the electronic data provided by the district employment body. The mayor shall immediately inform the district employment body of the proposed persons, and thereafter the district employment body shall notify the public employer if the proposed person is a public worker that, during the period of employment, he must exempt the public employee from the obligation to work and make available. If the job seeker does not accept the employment offered to him, he will be excluded from public employment for three months. A similar rule also applies from 1 January 2015 in the case of suitable jobs offered by the public employment body to job seekers. In order to plan public employment programmes and meet the needs of employers as quickly and efficiently as possible, an employer wishing to work in a simplified employment relationship may notify his/her labour needs by 31 October each year, indicating the place of employment, the number of employment and the planned rate of employment for the following year. This is transmitted by the relevant county employment body to the Minister for Public Employment by 30 November of each year and the needs are summarised here. Knowledge of these data is of great importance in order to ensure that, for seasonal work, simplified employment and public employment do not compete in the labour market, in the design of public employment programmes. In all cases, the public employment field organises the next year's programmes accordingly. I ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt and support the amendment of the law relating to public employment and public employment, as well as the amendment of other laws. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-126	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Zsolt Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-17-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The most important task of the public employment institution is to activate those who are permanently unemployed and to prevent job-seekers who have recently lost their jobs from breaking away from the world of work. Public employment is a special form of employment, which is slightly different from market employment. The period of support shall be no more than 12 months for each public employment programme, which may be extended for a further period not exceeding 6 months. The primary objective of public employment is to bring people in employment back to the primary labour market. The bill facilitates contacts between public workers and employers who wish to employ them in the primary labour market. On the one hand, it aims to ensure that as many of the public workers as possible have access to employment in the context of simplified employment and on the other hand, it facilitates the seasonal labour needs of employers wishing to employ in the framework of simplified employment. Public employment has been going back decades in Hungary. The typical form of public service and community service coordinated by the labour agencies in the 1990s. From 2000 on, the organisation of public employment became mandatory for municipalities, with a dual aim: to return to the open labour market and to exclude non-participants from aid. The program "The Way to Work" entered into force in 2009. There has been a significant increase in available resources and the public employment budget has been opened from top to bottom. Local governments have received more specific support for public employment than aid. Between 1996 and 2008, on average, 30-40,000 people worked in the community annually, this figure grew to 60-100,000 from 2009. In 2011 the government approved HUF 64 billion in public employment, HUF 137.5 billion in 2012, HUF 153.8 billion in 2013 and HUF 231.1 billion in 2014. [[14.10]] This amount amounts to HUF 270 billion in 2015. In 2014, according to the data from the EMCS labour force survey, the average number of employees exceeded 4.1 million, representing an increase of 208 100 people in one year, an increase of 5.3 percent. If we break up the annual increase in the number of employees, we see for the main groups of employees that during 2014 the role of public employment has been significantly reduced and the supply of market jobs has become significant in terms of the components of growth. According to the 2014 data, 80,7 percent of the people employed in the public employment sector were either unskilled persons with low educational qualifications or lived in employment and socially disadvantaged settlements. The first training programme took place between December 2013 and March 2014, involving nearly 100,000 people. Such training of job seekers and public employees has not been experienced in Hungary in the last 25 years. Between December 2014 and March 2015, training programmes related to winter public employment were again implemented, involving 28 thousand people. The emphasis has shifted from the previous year to a higher level of professional knowledge, recognised by the State, which can be used in the labour market. The number of people employed in the context of public employment was 182 600 per month on average in 2014, representing a 41.5 per cent increase compared to the same period in the previous year. The average monthly gross earnings of full-time public workers in 2014 amounted to HUF 78 068. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to share some more statistics. In Hungary, in the first quarter of 2015, the employment rate was 62.4 percent among 15-64-year-olds, with a target to be achieved under the Europe 2020 strategy of 75%. The unemployment rate fell from 11.2 per cent in 2010 to 7.8 per cent in 2015. The amount spent on public employment amounts to 63.2 percent of the expenditure of the National Employment Fund in 2015. The number of jobseekers involved in public employment was 271 716 in 2011 and 402 693 in 2013. The average duration of public employment was 2.86 months/person in 2011 and 4.92 months/person in 2013. The return of public workers to the primary labour market is on average around 10%. The average monthly number was 53 910 in 2010 and 107 632 in 2012 and 128 323 in 2013. The objectives of public employment for 2015 are set out in a government decision. In addition to helping those excluded from the primary labour market, they were, among other things, the protection of the natural and built environment, the clean-up of railway tracks and the road network environment, the preservation of cultural heritage elements, the greater involvement of stakeholders in water works, the promotion of social cooperatives and the social integration of the Roma population. However, the traditional employment policy toolkit does not contain elements that can fully integrate some of the disadvantaged, long-term unemployed and inactive. To them, expanding the forms of transit employment and broadening the social economy could be the solution. However, Hungarian public employment is not merely an employment policy instrument, but also has to fulfil social and territorial development and rural development tasks. Dear House, On the basis of the bill before us, the employer wishing to work in a simplified employment relationship may also report the labour demand between 1 May and 31 October to the mayor of the municipality where the intended employment is located. The mayor shall inform the employer of persons who meet the employment needs declared by the employer, including those whose registration as a job seeker is suspended due to public employment. The mayor shall perform his/her duties by using the data provided electronically by the district employment body on job seekers. The mayor shall immediately notify the district employment body of the simplified employment needs and of the persons he proposes for simplified employment. The district employment body shall immediately, after informing the mayor, notify the public employee proposed for simplified employment, which, on the basis of the notification, exempts the public employee from the obligation to work and make available for the period of simplified employment. If the job seeker, including those whose registration as a job seeker is suspended because of public employment, does not accept the simplified employment offered to him, the mayor shall immediately inform the district employment body thereof. The district employment body shall exclude the job seeker for three months on the basis of the notification. Dear House, The most important objective of the bill is to provide for the possibility of job opportunities for as many of the public workers as possible in the context of simplified employment. We ask for the adoption of the bill and thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-17-128	I now give the floor to Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-06-17-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know, I don't know, maybe it was the heat that got this bill in front of the House. Of course, there may be something else going on, but the first time I read it, I thought, "Maybe it's the big gay one." What can this summer produce?So, if we look seriously at this bill before I start citing it, let me have a little, short look back first, fellow Members, inviting me to do the things that my fellow Member Zsolt Becsó said. 2012 has given birth to a new code of work, and I'm sure you'll remember it. No wonder they don't, or I wonder if they don't want to, or if they don't want to. Whatever you want. But what they did, you can see. They created vulnerability, created a situation where they created differences between working people and working people. They have created a situation where legal certainty has fallen, where even wages have fallen, and they will surely remember it, if nothing else, the allowances. Afternoon allowance's gone, night shift's down. Now, in connection with Sunday closures, when they say that weekdays are extended shifts, the afternoon allowances are equal to zero forints. I don't want to go too far, I just want to say that they all produce returns, produce zero equivalent returns for the working man. That's what you gave birth to in a labor code. And, as I mentioned earlier, the public-employed person has also been distinguished by the fact that he does not appear to be the same subject of judgment. I told you about the last item on the agenda, so I'm not gonna stick anymore. Even if you have a 30-year relationship behind your back, it doesn't matter. Even though he raises three children like the other, it doesn't matter. So, how do you look at these people, the public servant, the people who do community service? They tell many kinds of stories here, but through their actions, which give them laws and regulations, it is clear how and how they are viewed. You know, the most important promises of your last five years, now the sixth year, were a million new jobs in the economy, a job producing tax forints, and a radical tax reduction. And I can't think of anything else except that I'm drinking the words of John Lazarus when I listen to him these days about what kind of beer salad we're talking about now. About something that cannot be placed within the walls of Parliament. And the only thing that comes to my mind about a million new jobs is that when they try to draw statistics, when they see the public employee as a statistical subject, my fellow Member Becsó almost boasts that employment is growing. [[14.20]] Of course, there would be an increase in employment, you know, abroad, England, Germany, Austria, of whom hundreds of thousands of Hungarian employment statistics count the economic refugees they have driven away in the order of hundreds of thousands, and the 200,000 people who work in public employment today for a third less money than they worked for five years ago. You don't have to say statistical numbers, underlying content, and if you put them in line, it turns out you didn't do anything. It would have been better if they hadn't done anything, because then the results might have been better, on the employment side, and on the other hand. When you talk about unemployment, remember two things. One is that those who were inside the statistical systems and fled abroad, because they went after work, so that they could support their families, came out of unemployment statistics, and then, as employees out there, they improve employment statistics here. You understand what I'm saying, don't you? You do not come with employment statistics, employment and unemployment figures, do not come when people who take care of themselves, on the one hand, and who are in solidarity with others, because they pay a 1.5 percent contribution after their income, a kind of solidarity and insurance contribution; then the answer to you is to kick them out of the care systems, reduce the duration of benefits from 9 months to 3 months, and not give you access to the fraction of the money they have paid. In a temporary sense, they also narrow down the chances of relocating these people, which is unprecedented in Europe. It's worth considering. It is also worth considering the third aspect of what wages have been waged in Hungary. I'll just give you three simple examples, and then we'll be at the law, despite the heat. One is that the public worker, as I said, has access to about a third less worth of money than in 2010. This is the result of your glorious work. They now hold 40,000 forints worth of money against 60 200 forints, because in the meantime they had an 18 percent inflation over the five years. The minimum wage that was printed on a multitude of billboards will rise to the heavens? Of course, your gross, after which you can make a contribution, will pay an extra burden for both the employee and the employer. He has one beneficiary: the government. But today, at the minimum wage, people take into their hands 5 thousand forints less worth of money than in 2010. You know what I mean? With regard to the minimum wage, where more than half of the working people in Hungary earn below the minimum wage, the scissors open between the minimum wage and the minimum wage. What are they so proud of? In terms of employment, unemployment and wage policy, you cannot say extra to the vast majority of people living in Hungary. You took me away from these people, especially those people in lower income positions, and you didn't give me to them. You shouldn't be so proud of that. And here we are at the law. With regard to the law, there are conflicting sentences between the walls of Parliament regarding public employment, on behalf of my fellow Members, the Secretary of State and everyone else, on the part of the government. Mr. Secretary of State Pogácsás did not now, in his introductory thoughts, say in the morning that the public employment needs to be narrow. The budget's talking about something else, isn't it? The budget talks about spending 70 billion more resources on public employment in 2016, about 40-50 thousand more people involved than before. You can say, Mr. Secretary, that, of course, in the long run. How long? They're going to govern for three years, so don't think about it for so long. They're trying to solve the problems of the present! They're increasing vulnerability. As I said, in a wage situation, the public workers live in a much worse situation than they do. Valuable work plans should be continued, there are good examples. I can give many good examples, too, but many of them have no place in public employment. Countless! Unfortunately, I have to say that experience shows that this majority, I do not have to bring up the example of Gyöngyfa, where the mayor resigned in connection with it, because he simply could not tolerate humanly that 30-36 people have been cleaning 300 meters of ditch for a half year, and this is public employment. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not a public job, it's something else. This is the construction of statistics that can stand up to the world and say things that have nothing to do with reality. And now they are making an amendment to the law in which they say that if, on the primary labour market, the worker in question resigns or terminates his legal relationship by mutual agreement, he does not really need any help, because he is likely to find his place in the labour market, in the labour market where you have not created new jobs in the economy. Nor have they created conditions that would result in hundreds of thousands of new jobs being created in the economy. But a person who may be in a situation where he must become a former employer can become vulnerable. There you have nothing to do; there you think it is necessary to exclude it from certain systems. What if it's not the construction of the modern slavery process that you're doing? ! We provide people with a workforce of HUF 500 a day for cheap money and simplified employment. And how? As we discussed earlier, then the mayor will appoint him, we will give him some money to enjoy himself, do what we say - I mean you - and the district offices will decide. Is that okay? And is it okay for a worker to resign from employment because, where appropriate, he is eviscerated, to work within the framework of a kind of employment that he can no longer bear, or the working conditions are not such, how many? ! Tens of thousands of checks are supported. And that's why he's forced to resign, and then you're punishing him, and then there's extra misery, and there's no community service for him. But there is also a situation, in terms of mutual agreement, where the story is that the employer simply wants to knock out the possibility of not being subject to any circumstances, let us say, a court case, and there are cases where a person is under notice or a notice of termination. You must know these things, Mr. Secretary, certainly. In these cases, what is the situation? Don't you think about these? These people, if they end their relationship, they don't even get community service? You don't want that? So, what I'm trying to say is that it's completely distorted what they're doing. It is completely distorted because, on the one hand, they are not paying these people, and they are also creating a legal environment that increases their vulnerability. It's not good to have gray and black jobs in a country. It's not good, but we do, and we know pretty much - from the sayings anyway - that even in the countryside, in agriculture, in employment for a working day, which is not good, what we would like to do differently, but they pay about 5 thousand forints to one person. You guys, the pereputty, God knows who you're broadcasting to create a situation that these people can't even find half of it. [[14.30]] What's this? Taking care - or increasing vulnerability? So, the problem, my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, is that if you go down the road to reducing security, you lack solidarity, I mean, on your part, the lack of solidarity; if you offer public work, whether you offer mushrooms or goats, while reducing the wages you give them from $47,000; if you carry on an activity in which everything you want to do with them, if you eviscerate it; if, as I said, you want to organize a summer camp for public work - I do not think that this is the way you should walk. I think that there should be a set of conditions in this regard where the public-employed person or the person who, before becoming a public-employed person, loses his job, has at least the possibility of not falling away from that minimum. If you are already a public employee, then your salary should be one that at least rewards the workflow combined with the value-creating activity by, say, reaching the minimum wage. That would be your job, not to bring such draft laws into the walls of this House. I ask you to consider it, and in view of the great summer heat here in the cold walls, perhaps you should add more sensible proposals to this bill. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-130	I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-06-17-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Very briefly: the KDNP fraction supports the bill before us [[Zoltán Grimlock: Wow! More of Jobbik's ranks: What's going on? Defiance.]] and we ask our honourable fellow Members to support you.
u2015-06-17-132	I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-17-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps, yes, to make the submission of this bill very warm, and that this is what this House should be discussing, but I was thinking more about who called you there, who ordered this bill from you. We know that in many cases there are clearly large investors, entrepreneurs, let's just say fidesz oligarchs, fidesz friends behind your bill, who personally order it, put the menu in front of them, or they themselves tell you what they want, and then, in the legislative process, it's just about to appear. I think it's clear that this is the case now, because otherwise there can be no other reason. I think that those sitting among you, in your ranks, Fidesz Members, cannot seriously think that Hungarian people, Hungarian citizens, can be treated as you are presenting to us here. This type of vulnerability, this magnitude of vulnerability, which will now characterize the lives of the public workers, is, you might say, the ancient Egyptian slave society, or a type of mercenary line, a line of servants, which I could compare to; or we could even calmly say the situation of the labor workers, to which I could most like what you are offering us here. There have been abuse of public employment. You have always seen these public workers as some kind of completely vulnerable biorobots that can be persuaded to do anything, anywhere to be ordered; we knew, we have heard, but so far this has only reflected, let us say, an unlawful state of affairs. Let's just remember. Even before the elections, there was a small video compilation, when we saw the house of the Eger notary, where public workers work, and it turned out that the notary herself did not know that there were public workers, although it was quite clear from their work. But we could also recall the Peaceful County case when the mayor assigned the public servants to his own hacienda, where they had to act in the public interest, so to speak. Now you want to legitimize this illegal state, which is not an ongoing investigation, thank God, in a sense. It is a story, isn't it, that the employer, who needs agricultural seasonal workers, may request a public worker through the mayor; from the mayor who will be kept up-to-date records of who will be expected in his settlement for such agricultural seasonal work. He will be appointed by the mayor, because according to the law, it will be his duty to designate these servants, these gels, and to send them to these certain employers, which will now be required to work there. Because if you don't take on this otherwise extremely difficult job, you can lose all other opportunities. That is why I say that it is practically a kind of work service, because towards the end of World War II and in the 1950s, people who were deprived of their rights were forced to work in exactly the same way. But let's take a look at who these particular employers really are. Because I think this is also a very interesting issue in Hungary today. Let's see, say, a Somogy County example. For three settlements in Somogy County, a landowner named Carlo Benetton owns a total of 7,000 hectares, so let's say that he is not an oligarch - we call him an oligarch, but we call him a Landlord - who was so generous and generous that he offered one hectare of this 7,000 hectares to one of the settlements under a social land programme. I would add, of course, that he does not own all the 7,000 hectares of his right; of which at least 2,000 hectares, if not more, are in his possession through pocket contracts. So maybe he doesn't have the ownership yet, but he already has it. Now, for example, will Carlo Benetton be able to submit his claim to the mayor, the territorially competent mayor, as to how many Hungarian maids he would like to employ here as foreign landowners in Hungary? Or let's just keep going. For example, there is Claessens, the entire Claessens family, who are also interested in Somogy and Veszprém County, again for thousands of hectares of land. He can call the mayor and tell them we need a couple of guys on the dam to send us? He, who could pay for it by the way, because he has so much, interestingly accumulated wealth, that he could afford to employ seasonal workers in original, simplified employment, so that he could save considerable costs in terms of wages, since public employment is far from being paid. But, of course, we could safely mention Csányi or Leisztinger. Interestingly, let's say, Leisztinger is the landowner in Hungary who is connected to Fidesz as well as to the MSZP; both parties and the two governing parties are once a very good friend of him, and each time, always receive the unheard of great favors from them. Yes, they are the employers who will benefit extremely well under this law, and Hungarian people will do that terrible slave work for them, practically free, which should otherwise be paid in a fair way. But I would add, of course, that there are many more names, because we know that one of your former State Secretarys has calculated that there are about 1 million Hungarian hectares of 6 million Hungarian hectares suitable for agricultural farming, where foreigners are already in possession, and thanks to your land law, more and more people are now acquiring ownership, and that is why they are becoming employers who can order these poor people from the local government. [[14.40]] What I do not understand is that in the previous agenda we have been able to set so many fine, good examples of how many and colorful local governments can organise themselves to enrich their own community, within the framework of public employment, we have heard of fantastic and ideas-rich initiatives that can actually give work to all villagers, meaningful work, and thus not only the wages of public employment can be paid to individual workers, but also the goods they produce. At the same time, we have heard about a social land programme. Why isn't that what the government is trying to strengthen? If you think that public workers are very much needed, if there is a need for more people to do agricultural work, why not try to strengthen the social land programme a little? Give the municipalities as much land as possible to organize it themselves, to be the employers! Or I'll go further: let each family have their own land so that they can produce these goods for themselves. Why doesn't the government, for example, bind the transfer of various subsidies to the compulsory cultivation of gardens? This could also be a kind of revenue increase for families, where appropriate. So it would be a number of good and even better ways for people in vulnerable situations who receive extremely low pay to earn a little more income, to get a little better living. On the other hand, according to this bill, they will be made more vulnerable and forced into slave labor of a type that is extremely shameful. For example, yesterday, they talked for hours about how important European values are to Fidesz. This is a European value for ordering slavery in the 21st century. In the century? ! Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-134	I now give the floor to Mr Bernadett the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-06-17-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I started this morning in this series of speeches as to when the Fidesz-KDNP will introduce serfdom in Hungary, because it seems to me that if the law on public employment is further amended at this rate, the moment will eventually come when the complete bonding with the clot and the full exploitation of people will come. What we need to see is that we are talking about a law that you are constantly modifying, and now we are practically touching this law every month. Recently, we were discussing a salad law, and earlier cases of exclusion from public work were regulated, and then sanctions for failure to comply with school obligations were introduced, and now sanctions are being applied again. Summer came, and you put two suggestions on the table that surprised many of us because we didn't think you'd actually be here. It is necessary to see these proposals as they are, to see that one part of the proposal restricts the free choice of Hungarian workers and Hungarian people in the labour market, since they distinguish between quitting their job or leaving by common accord and restricting their right to participate in public work. This is totally unacceptable. But there is also the other part of this proposal, which is basically about excluding a job seeker from public employment for three months if he does not accept seasonal work. Actually, I don't know what else is boiling in your sorcery at the BM, and I don't know what suggestions they're going to come up with, but I'm asking you to at least try to keep this law within the framework of predictability. It is unacceptable that the Public Service Act is constantly being amended in the way that Fidesz' neo-feudal arrangement in this country is being developed. You don't think it's obvious to everyone what this business is about anymore. The thing is, you don't want these people to break out of the difficult fate you're in, and you seem to want to stick them in this environment, in this situation. They do not have a worthwhile job creation programme, this is not what the last five years have been about, and it is not apparent that they are thinking about anything that could be done, how they could do a normal employment policy in this country, the wages are kept low, János Lázár boasts, boasting that Hungary will not be able to ensure wage closure compared to other Western countries; of course, because they do not want it. The BM is simply turning into an institution that drives mass unemployed people, and you are disposing the fact that in Hungary people who have failed to create jobs, how to move and whose interests they serve. Here's where the point is to find out whose interest this bill is in. I have been used to the fact that ever since we've worked here with you, since you've been in government, and we've been in opposition, you have to keep looking at who's been pulling your strings, who's behind you, and whose interest it is that we're discussing such a bill here in this House. It is quite clear that one half of the bill is about serving private workers with blackmailed people who are obliged to take the job, and who are also very cheap. That's what I'm talking about. If you would speak frankly, if you did not express such terms as that this measure would lead public workers back to the primary labour market, or facilitate the return of public workers to the primary labour market, then perhaps I would not assume that your intentions are so extreme, but you are clearly constantly lying when you say that this proposal is about how public workers will be able to return to the primary labour market. No, I didn't. Well, it's a seasonal job that lasts four months. After four months, these people will go back to community service. So it's not that they're getting closer to the primary labour market, it's just - let's see how the system works - that there's the employer who's applying to the mayor and he says he needs a certain number of workers, and the mayor is going to the employment center. We will have to discuss specifically why it is important that the labour centre does so. The mayor receives the data and selects from among them the people who will be slaving at the private employer for four months, whether you like it or not, whether you like it or not, whether you like it or not, you have no choice. And if you decide not to accept it because you can't stand it because you have a sick spine or just a lifeline, then this man is practically on the verge of being killed. Here comes the other thing I think is absolutely necessary here in this debate. I will not forget, nor will I forget, when Mihály Varga came to his ministerial hearing, and the Minister promised that they would completely redeploy, reorganize the labour centres and strengthen the role of the service provider. Minister said that they will be separated from public work and will focus on market work and market-preparation service activities in labour centres. What, on the other hand, would happen according to the bill that Sándor Pintér took in his name? Once again, the transition of public workers to seasonal work will be dealt with by the labour centres, which will tie down their capacities, in practice switch to a large intermediary role, and again marginalize, put their responsibilities and activities in the background, without which these people will never find a job for which they will receive decent wages, which they will not be forced to do, but have a choice. Here, we also need to see what public workers will get in exchange for seasonal work. If anyone thought it was the Canaan itself, they'd be wrong. This is a very bad world, because agricultural seasonal work is an employment relationship where there is no obligation to pay the statutory minimum wage on the market. This is set to 85 per cent of the minimum wage, unless it's a guaranteed minimum wage, because it's priced to 87 per cent. But please, I know I have experience in the field, and I encourage the Ministry of Interior, and I expect you to look around and see what's going on out there. These people don't get the 500 forints they deserve, the less I've seen, 350 forints in Borsod, for example. If Sándor Pintér and the Ministry have the capacity to write such laws, it should also be that they go there and see what they write here and have it voted on by those who vote for it, how it works in practice. Go over there and see how vulnerable these people are for zero bucks, and see how well the safety regulations are respected. 'Cause what I saw there was terrible. I can talk about cases of women about my age, but they couldn't bend down and stand up, but they couldn't go on sick leave. I will not forget that when the minister was there, he said how glad he was that people are not taking sick leave of community service. Of course, because they won't let them. People work sick in the fields! Well, don't joke, just face the reality. You think you're still holding up that old fidesz argument here that you're proud to tell me that anyone who says anything wrong with community service is saying something bad about public workers? No, no, you're wrong about you, because you've made a very bad regulation, which is very bad in practice. [[14.50]] Now we're really saying that's unacceptable. Then say they've introduced serfdom, say it's feudalism, and then at least we know what we're up against. But don't tell me you're leading these people back to the primary labour market, that's not it. The other is that if there was anything that could be appreciated in this whole community service programme, maybe it was the Start Initiatives. His name is Start, suggesting it's some kind of initiation. You have previously suggested that these programmes will be on their own and will support people, do value-making work and help the local communities to survive. For example, is this what you're doing, that basically it's legal to pick out jobs for seasonal work, so to speak, for law enforcement? By the way, it's really a slave market atmosphere for this whole bill, and it's outrageous that it's a XXI. This is what we talk about in Hungary in the century. Of course, today is exactly the day when you announced the construction of the Iron Curtain. Look at what's going to happen to these start-ups. When I went to this country - although I'm always told I'm a Pest, and I've been going through a lot of programs, that's for sure - I've always been told and I've seen that if you guys finally changed the cooperative law, then these programs could improve. If people got the tool, the money, the land, eventually they could really create things that this country would be proud of, and then it would have made sense, between public work, the Start Programme and the primary labour market, they would really create a step and we would get to the end that there would be thriving communities. But you won't do it, the cooperative law hasn't been amended. They basically created a dead end, a dead end community service program. What I can tell you is that they now have virtually no vision of this community service program. I simply listened coldly that you were still talking about how the community service program is good if it's small or temporary. What are you talking about? They're spending a hell of a lot of taxpayers' money on community service. They say that there will be more and more, and that there will be practically such legislation - we should also talk about this and look forward to the outcome of the BM investigation - that where, which is not explicitly ruled out as being a public worker, it will be filled with public workers. These are the big community workers. How much we talked about the KLIK case, but there's all the rest. We should investigate these cases, Mr. Secretary. You want to build a public service country, for depressed wages, with people working for worse than they are now? Will this make Hungary strong? I very much doubt it. So, there's this other regulation, on which I can only put it in the most final terms, so I'd rather not, because I was afraid of the dignity of this House under all circumstances. But, Mr. Secretary of State, I asked you to do it in the morning, but you didn't answer, and I ask you to explain to me what you meant by Zoltán Kovács, Government Spokesman, when you said that you didn't want someone to find a market-based, well-functioning and stable job, only to try to get back into the public employment system because, say, you want to play tricks on it. What do you think of the Hungarian people? He's got a job on the market, and you're gonna do a trick so big, he's gonna be a community worker, so he's gonna quit and become a community worker? Really? ! How can a government spokesperson even say such a thing? Or if you've already said that, tell me the department behind it who made this up and wrote your name on what you were thinking. Besides, it is unacceptable for you to restrict people's right to choose, and it is also unacceptable that you are, in practice, punishing those people who want to move a little further forward, who may be in public work now, but are going to market jobs, trying to find a job, trying to get one from one to the other. You think this man is gonna take the market job when he knows that if he doesn't succeed for some reason, he's gonna have to give up, something goes wrong, he's not gonna be able to quit, because he's not gonna get community service? How can you force people into this situation? Not to mention that there are people who have not had a one-year employment relationship in the last three years, if they are put into such a situation to exclude them from public work, this will mean virtually total lack of care for a long time. These people are really going to stay on the edge, and I'd say in the ravine, because technically, these people are going to starve. I think you very much have not thought about this regulation, which I doubt, because you have enough apparatus to think about. My second assumption is that you've thought very carefully about what you're doing, and this is a very evil plan. It's a very evil plan, because in addition to basically soundful voices, they're putting together a clot, blackmail, coercion. This whole thing is going to go off completely contrary to communication, they're going to tape people into the community service system, and then you want to do whatever you want with intimidated and exploited people, whatever your party machine and government can think of. I absolutely refuse this procedure. Don't treat the Hungarian people like that. A XXI. The idea of this horror shouldn't even be formulated in the government of the century. They've been here for five years now and they've ruled this country, they've had enough power, they've had enough electoral support, a lot of people have voted for you. Seriously, why is employment policy neglected, why are they unable to create jobs? Why are we being told that we will return from the public work programme to the open labour market? You don't believe in it either. I can see and hear how you feel about these issues. It is quite obvious that this is about the fact that they want to produce statistics. If you are asked by an opposition representative, he asks you that there is a problem, then you can say that everything is all right in Hungary and that there are two pieces of statistics. But please, there are people in poverty, people in poverty! Now they've really gone down to a level that's quite amazing, even for you. Answer the question, don't waste time, tell me when you will introduce the serfdom, tell me when there will be feudalism again in Hungary, say that you have built it or say that you couldn't do anything about the countryside, that you couldn't do anything about the problems of the countryside and the Hungarian people! Then find yourself another job and hand over the steering rod to people who have a imagination and creativity for being a XXI. Build a century-old Hungary! 'Cause what you guys are doing here, it's just amazing, even in the Middle Ages, it was horrible.
u2015-06-17-136	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman Peter Konya.
u2015-06-17-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State, in his expo, he began by saying that full employment is the government's goal, which is a beautiful and noble goal. At the same time, you are acting today as if this total employment has already been achieved, at least that is what this draft legislation, which is now tabled, is counting as if it were completely free from the labour market and people could choose from the free jobs, and at any time, if you decide, you can choose a new job for yourself, or if you do, you can find yourself a job if you don't work. You're completely out of touch with reality. I don't know if any of you Fidesz fellow Members have ever been at a job centre in the last few months, and have looked at the crowds and the snake lines there, how many hours people are waiting just to get into the employment center, not to get a job. When you came to government, you promised a million jobs. Instead, it seems, and from this bill, that the working age group, today's workers, has been turned into Kunta Kinte, or, in other words, Tom's brother. And from the fidesz oligarchs, from Lőrinc Mészáros, they made them the great white farmers who decide what to do with today's Hungarian workers. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has already pointed out that you started by changing the Code of Work, with which you have served today's Hungarian workers at a level that is practically completely at the mercy of employers. I am thinking here that they can be fired without justification, or even divorced from an employee on the grounds of mistrust in the public sector. My fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, pointed out that Zoltán Kovács has made a completely incomprehensible statement recently. He made a cynical and incomprehensible statement when he said that the community service programme has become so popular today that there is a danger that people will leave their jobs to go to community service - for much lower wages, of course. You just don't have to assume that. This also shows that you do not live in reality. By the way, say this, and perhaps spokesperson Zoltán Kovács will confront the people, thousands of people who have been fired from the KLIK, or who have been fired from firefighters or police officers belonging to your BM's wallet, and then either have been hired back or others have been employed at a much lower wage, since these jobs have been classified as public workers' status. [[15.00]] It is simply untenable, and there is no problem with public work, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members, because if public work is carried out with meaningful goals and sensible work, I think that public work can be good. The problem is that you employ people who are employed in community service as slaves. It is simply untenable that the state allows itself to employ anyone in this country under the legal minimum wage. You are already breaking the law here, of course you can find the laws by which you legitimize the otherwise completely incomprehensible violation of the law. If we are talking about agricultural employment, which is now trying to recruit workers who are already vulnerable to public work in the framework of simplified employment, and if we are talking about this, and if it were not what my fellow opposition Members have already pointed out, that the oligarchs who could otherwise do this are going to make even more profit here, then why did they not submit this bill in such a way as to determine the minimum hourly rate of employment for such seasonal work for people who are otherwise being asked out of public work or even through the labour centre. If this were to determine the minimum hourly wage that could be employed and otherwise at least reach the minimum wage, then we would say yes, then they really want to help people get to work here, and it wouldn't be about wanting to employ slaves in Hungary. And if I was referring to Kinte Kunta at the beginning of my speech, then let me refer to the series Roots at the end of my speech, perhaps I have members of my age group who have seen him in the past... [[Zoltán Grimlock: Isaura?]] - not Isaura, that was another one. It was the movie series Roots, where Kunta Kinte was one of the main slave characters, and at the time there was a saying, there was one of these... [[György Szilágyi: Slave fate.]] No, it wasn't the slave fate, it was the Roots, and there was a saying at the time whether Kunta Kinte looked out. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Mr State Secretary, today in Hungary, people look out of this country, and as long as they submit such legislative proposals, they will not come home to Hungarian refugees who have gone abroad, who have gone out for economic reasons, to come home to work, but those who are here in this country will also leave. If I were you, I'd withdraw this bill. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-06-17-138	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to extend my compliments to the Secretary of State and to my fellow Members. For two minutes I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-06-17-139	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I think it's a pretty amazing idea that's in front of us right now. I would like to point out - that this is where farmers or companies are listed - that I am absolutely certain that they will not ask for any public workers, so that the larger companies are not in need of this, there is continuous employment there. What is seasonal in relation to seed and other matters is usually solved by its own employees, family members, pensioners, I don't think any of them would ask for a public worker. I'm more afraid that people who are now enslaved to animals will ask for it, in other ways, taking advantage of the fact that it will be legal from here on out. I think that, by the way, the idea of not creating competition for public work at certain times, when there is more labour demand, could be a realistic suggestion, and I think that there is only one problem, and that is exactly what my fellow Member Konya said that we should put the wage on the side. If someone goes into the private sector, don't work for public service. At the very least, the minimum wage is paid by the enterprise, and it's amazing that it's left in the mayor's hands. No! Find the employee directly, and let the employee have the opportunity to report that he is now going from community service to three months on unpaid leave, and not be left to send someone to a place that he is sure he is unfit for, just because they might want to push him out. It's an amazing idea, it can really lead to slavery, and I'd like to refer it back to the previous bill, and from now on, with the mayors, I understand why we need the brakes and the leash. I can't imagine whose idea this could have been. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] A real problem, by the way.
u2015-06-17-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute comment is Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP.
u2015-06-17-141	LMP has a clear position from the outset: public work is needed on a temporary basis where, when there is no employer who can offer people a living; rather, there was such an attempt in South America, but then it was closed because it did not work. However, no one, never... - people typically don't make up community service to become a mass, settle in for long years, and increase, increase, and increase it. Dear Secretary of State, On the one hand, I would like you to take part in the debate, because you are here with us and you have heard many arguments, and on the other hand I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this whole problem would not be on the House's table if the Ministry of Interior and the Fidesz-KDNP were not at all in the same way as you are concerned. It is about the fact that public work in Hungary has grown in size and mass, and it is really about being able to squeeze out other forms of work. Given that your objective is precisely to keep people on a leash and regulate people, to introduce a new kind of feudalism in this country, it is convenient for you, as I said, to treat these masses of people in accordance with your own political goals. This is what is unacceptable, and this is what is deeply immoral. What you're contributing to is that, indeed, these people are on hunger pay, these people are extremely vulnerable. This country is a country of labor poverty, anywhere, any salary or wage. The problem is that you do not know about the pay gap, you refuse to give it to the segments where you should be - I could say social workers, I could say health care - here is the public work that is being expanded, expanded, and then enslaved to the whole system according to the taste of your own mouth, and the biggest problem is that there is no job creation anywhere. Look at the LMP program. It says here that it's a XXI. How to create jobs in a country of the century. We have said that we need local economic development, we need renewable energy sources and insulation - we could immediately put the rezsifight in brackets - and we could build a strong Hungary, and instead we are talking about such right-hand law.
u2015-06-17-142	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2015-06-17-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The T/5141. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is in your title: a debate. We have a few minutes here or an hour to discuss the bill that you have submitted to this House. In yesterday's speeches, I have already said, and I will say it now, that the opposition representatives did not come into Parliament by blowing them away, but by the majority of the voters, by the way, the majority of them who voted for the Fidesz-KDNP elected the opposition representatives here. So, as a matter of fact, this means that you should now engage in dialogue with the voters who will also choose in 2018. Mr Secretary of State, I will also tell you that this law does not concern only the voters of Jobbik, MSZP, LMP, for many of the voters of Fidesz may in principle find their only way forward in public employment, say in the countryside. So it would be good if they could face up to the fact that not only does the opposition tell you what you may not think is appropriate, but then stand up and tell you what you think about this, defend your position against what we are saying here. I feel that this would not only honor us, but also the voters who, thanks to you, will be able to sit here in Parliament. And then let's get to the law. The instrument of public employment and the practice of implementation in Hungary have been in the crossfire of debates for a long time now, arguments and phrases have been made against the system, knowing a series of good and bad examples - we can read in the press - depending on whether they are pro-government or opposition, however, we have little substantive information about the real results of public employment and its effects. On the basis of the bill before us, we can conclude that public employment has sucked the workforce away from seasonal work. Although the public employment system could not raise its participants, it limits their exit to the labour market. Seasonal work is part of the world of work, where workers receive real pay for real tasks, as opposed to public employment, which is a transition between relief and employment. [[15.10]] We have already said this several times, and we believe that the Public Works Programme is not an area of employment, since it was more of a source of aid. One of the declared aims of the public employment system was to bring the idle, aid-efficient but still able to work back to the labour market. Based on the practical experience of recent years and the current proposal, this has not been so good. Public work should help those involved in it to enter the labour market. This did not go so well either, and the intention to change bad practice would be a good effort theoretically, and it would also be worth supporting, but this is not what the specific proposal is about. The specific proposal seeks to use inadequate means to achieve the objective. It is proposed that seasonal workers may be requested by the employer from the territorially competent mayor. On the basis of the announced needs, the mayor selects from among the public employees those with whom he intends to meet the reported labour demand and then announces this to the district employment body. On the basis of the mayor's announcement, the district employment body exempts the selected persons from the obligation to work with public employment and to make them available, thus removing any obstacles to the person being selected to go to seasonal work. With this proposal, I believe that there are the following problems. The person who needs a job doesn't have a say in who he's going to work with. The employee has no say in his appointment for seasonal work. Neither the person who wants to hire you, nor the person who has to go to this seasonal work, has any say in it. So they do not participate willingly and willingly, whether they employ that person or leave and work there. There is no provision for the wage to be paid to the employee for the seasonal work to be carried out, no guarantees. You have to take a job in principle without even guaranteeing how much the minimum wage you have to pay for this job. The qualifications, qualifications and physical and mental abilities of the worker to be employed are not in any way taken into account in the selection. On the basis of these problems and shortcomings, it is clear that the seasonal work offered to the public is an uncertain and unclear offer that cannot be accepted with good heart. In addition, the public-employed's vulnerability is completed by excluding from public employment on the basis of the above, in the event of the rejection of an objectionable offer, and thus in a situation of immediate existential crisis. In other words, he either takes this job, which may not be right for him, which he may not like, which may not be right for him, because let's just say he can't take it physically, so he can either take it, or he can get out of public employment. With this, these people, these families, you can put them in a real crisis. The proposal is unthinkable, undeveloped, completely precludes the employee's right to say, independent players decide his fate, sell and buy as a machine or as a slave. The mayor is given some kind of employment agency role, which is not a municipal task. The placement of the workforce, the appointment of the workers are not regulated in detail, the conditions are unclear, these mayors are put in an unsuitable position, these mayors are put in an unsuitable position. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal reflects the selfishness of fidesz landlords, which they are not ashamed of, both in their spirit and in their design. The proposal is nothing more than the fact that the buddies, who had access to cheap land without any funds in the state-owned land contest, now have a low-cost workforce. As we read the proposal, we are bound to be reminded of earlier press reports in the newspapers about the black seasonal work of public workers in the land of nearby melon-producing Fidesz farmers. The legalisation of this is now taking place, so that it is no longer black, but now it is not possible to talk about it, if, say, public workers are working in certain melon fields. The proposal does not provide any point of break-out for the public, and even for those who are not employed by the public - as it is also about them - but who want to live on the labour market in whole or in part from seasonal work, it makes it worse. The harsh and unilateral extension of public employment in this way only preserves the current undesirable conditions, further strengthens the vulnerability of the simple poor and further strengthens the power of the local Fidesz small kings. The question arises, where is the protection of the interests of the hardworking little people, which has been heard from you in recent times, since they have invented in your fidesz communications witches' kitchen that these words will have to be used, and then people will believe how much you really do for the so-called hardworking little people. Well, where's their protection of interest here? ! And here you can see the difference between words and actions between Fidesz-KDNP and the government, because the protection of the hardworking little people you always say in a loud voice, the words and actions that you bring in to this House, the laws that make it even more difficult for people who really live in a poor line, who really have a problem with everyday living, and who you absolutely do not care about, because in the last five years, there has been only one important, the only thing that has been kept in front of this House, their slogan, the only thing that Fidesz and its loyal circle, friends, mates are getting along better than anyone else in the past five years. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-144	Thank you, Congressman. In two minutes, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP.
u2015-06-17-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, one thing that I would like to deal with in these two minutes, but I would like to see the Secretary of State involved, a little more intense, so here would reflect on the points that, really, if we are talking about a debate on a draft law, we can talk to each other. They're public workers. Secretary of State, it is good to have as many people as possible in the world of work or if not the primary, but to find their place in the public employment system. But you don't think it's any good, or if it is, tell me you'd be kind enough to do this for a third less money. They get a third less worth of money than they did five years ago. If it's good, I'm still asking you to tell me, even if it's not good. If it's not good, I'm also asking you to change it, because I think it's unacceptable. The other part of the matter, which my fellow Members have already spoken about, I am referring back to it, and I have mentioned it: it is not good to have a black job. It's not good! But you should see and know that in terms of black employment, a minimum of 5 thousand forints is given to a person in terms of one working day in agriculture. You have introduced regulations within the framework of other laws, where you provide a contribution allowance up to HUF 100,000 for employment in agriculture, matched to a gross wage of HUF 100,000. You know, that doesn't even amount to the minimum wage. In Hungarian, they do not want people to be employed at the minimum wage level in agriculture, but rather they give contributions below, up to 100 thousand forints and up to its gross. Then that means they get 60,000 forints, let's say, hand in hand. Divide it only 20 working days, that's 3,000 forints. Do you want to create a situation where you pay more in the context of black employment than in the framework of the forms of employment that you have legalised? Mr. Secretary, you need to get on the line, you need to get a little intense, let's talk about this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-17-146	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Nándor Gúr, Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-06-17-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, there's no rush for the Secretary of State, and then there's a summary. [[Peter Konya: You will answer yourself. Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] There's nothing else I can do...
u2015-06-17-148	Here you go, Mr. Notary.
u2015-06-17-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the Secretary of State is not busy. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] My problem is that it is not possible to have a meaningful debate between Parliament's walls. You do not want to argue between Parliament's walls about draft laws. [[15.20]] You want to carry out dictatorships: you say you will, you will have the majority, you will do it, you are done, nothing matters. Mr. Secretary. You and all members of the government must bear in mind that not everyone in Hungary has voted for you. No, not by a long shot. And it must also be borne in mind that fewer and fewer people are voting for you. And if they were to think a little, in political terms, foresight, then, yes, they would respond to all the points that seem reasonable or sensible within the walls of Parliament, and we would begin to debate that. Believe me, you don't carry the Philosopher's Stone, neither do we, no one. Our common wisdom would lead us ahead of the stubbornness of refusing to speak on such matters, which, in a sense, will crucify Hungarian society. Yes, yes, because in a multitude of people, when it comes to public employment, there is a kind of misrepresentation of hatred, unwarranted in many cases and unworthy. Because the public workers are often told that they are working, but because they are not doing value-creating activities, so the people who, say, do work by the tape, they say, "Well, that's why they do this kind of money for work?" And on the other hand, I say no, you have to give them a job for which they can earn a decent income. It doesn't matter where we come from, but we need to start talking, you and you. Because by speaking the last word of silence and the last word in a different sense, he just wants to dictate to the record what you want and how you think about it, but he doesn't want to get to know it and he doesn't want to discuss other people's positions. I think it's absolutely wrong; it's absolutely wrong, and it doesn't lead to anything. You see, our basic position is that whatever work is involved, there, on the one hand, we have to give people adequate wages and, on the other hand, adequate security. This security should include the safety of working conditions. I recommend to you and your colleagues and to the state machine you operate to look at, look at, examine a multitude of working conditions matching the activities carried out within the framework of public employment. Look at him, look at him. Do the public workers work under humane conditions in many cases? Unfortunately, I must say that I can give you a multitude of examples when this is not the case. In many cases, it is because the mayors we spoke about earlier, mayors of small towns, are doing everything they can to make sure that they work in decent conditions; not because government benefits and help bring these things forward. I must say that we must go back to the previous agenda, and these are related issues. As far as public employment is concerned, the shameful set of planned acts by which the mayors, relying on their convenience in the quotation mark, want to select those people who have to engage in forced activity in a sense, towards those affected by the large economies you might like or not major economies. This is out of place. It's a level of vulnerability that's unacceptable, and it's a level of hunger. And for wages of the same level as I told you, which are nearly double paid on the black market. Is this normal employment? Also, normal employment, when you look at it, look at it, people are dismissed from the framework of various public administrations, people are dismissed, and then re-employed in the framework of public employment for hunger wages. You can give me examples, I can give you examples. Is that normal? Is that okay? So, we should think about these, and we should think about whether we should do this, whether we should do this, whether we can do it like this. It can only be possible if it is reasonable. I don't think so. You know, there's a big problem when it comes to serving political interests, when you're dealing with oligarchs, buddies, or pereputty. You know, the problem is that if in Hungary companies can operate, operate, where, I give you an example, in a given year, the size of the dividend received exceeds 800 million forints, you will be able to identify the issue, exceed 800 million forints, and 225, two hundred and twenty-five employees will receive a dividend of HUF 800 million in the year that the affected HUF 157 million will make a wage-like payment. You understand what I'm saying, don't you? 800 million in shares [[Zoltán Grimlock: The rest is on black.]] $800 million in dividends, 225 people's wages, that's 157 million. What's this? What's this? ! [[Dr. István Józsa: Double fraud! Zoltán Grimlock: It's definitely cheating.]] Double? So, I think that's what we should think about. They exploit people in absolute ways, eviscerate, exploit, and then throw away, or even exclude them from supply systems. Is that normal? They do it with people who have paid contributions to the budget for, say, decades of working activity, including contributions of the type that serve their safety, this 1.5 percent, you know, which expressed their solidarity with others. You may never be in this position, I wish you didn't. You pay this contribution, too, for the consideration that if you are no longer in this position, the person who is in this situation is in a vulnerable state, then you should be treated. What are they doing now? They are calling for a distorted system within which these people, who, in a forced manner, must terminate their relationship in the primary labour market, as they become eviscerated because there are no working conditions, are punished by not being able to participate in public employment for three months. Is this normal, Mr. Secretary? I need you to talk to me. Tell him it's normal. Tell me you didn't. Say anything, just say something. Because it's only a one-sided speech, so you can't make it interactive, so you can't make it normal, you can't conflict opinions. Tell him that everything I say is stupid. Tell me, and then I'll show you why it's not. But tell me something, don't sit in your chair, and just shut up, and don't lecture me in the end, sum up what you might think about these things or what you've been told. It's not a parliamentary genre. The genre of Parliament is to discuss everything that needs to be discussed. How do you plan to pass a law in a responsible manner, to be born with the House, that if you are not interested in it at all, it doesn't matter which opposition benches, in which faction of the House, what Members in opposition benches say? It's just outrageous! This is simply unacceptable! This is the contempt of Parliament that you are doing, and you are not doing it alone, on this agenda, but in a series. In a row! It doesn't matter if it's morning, whether it's afternoon or night, it doesn't matter. This is what we have to face in the ranks of the opposition. Mr. Secretary. Help me solve this situation. Let's talk, or let's start talking about it. I'm not here to hurt you, not your opinion, I just want to argue with you. All I want is that if there's any good in what we say, any of us, then the good in all the legislative thinking that you're doing, because it's my duty, my job, and all of us to make better laws, as far as possible, than the laws that you're putting into Parliament's walls. Let us help you with that, if we can. If you feel that we don't know, because what we're saying is nonsense, then tell us your opinion, support us, and then maybe we can move forward on these things. Look, the examples I've given you in the foregoing absolutely support the fact that this bill can be seen as an aid to such a process of conduct. And I don't think it's a good way to go. I think that, under decent working conditions, we need to move forward under wage conditions, move forward from today. It should be fulfilled that we move forward in the basic promises made by you. [[15.30]] Do you know what that was? No? Then I'll tell you. Debate if that's not it. Viktor Orbán and others - now the sixth year - said before the elections, before 2010, they will create a million new jobs in the economy over the next ten years. New jobs producing tax forints. And now we are treading on the sixth year, my fellow Members, and there are no new jobs in the economy. There is, as I said, in England, in Germany, Austria for economic refugees, recorded in Hungarian statistics. There are 200,000 people in the public sector that we talked about. It's just not combined with the task of creating value in every case. In many cases, it is not associated with it. These people, not to mention one, they're like themselves. They themselves are in a situation where, in the interest of a minimum of their livelihood, they clearly do not oppose you, while saying that what they do, what they are made to do, or that they do not do anything, or that they do not form a system of conditions in order to perform that task fairly. Keep your basic promises. Create a million new jobs in the economy at home in Hungary! Do not do this outside the borders, instead of you, with those who have been driven away from Hungary! That's what you should be thinking about. You have something to say to that. Create not only jobs, but also decent wages. Make it possible for the public worker not to live in the category of 47,000 forints mentioned by many, but to receive a wage that can be paid. Not a third less worth than I said before, as I said in 2010, when he took 60 200 forints in his hand, and now if he hands his 51-52 thousand forints, it's worth about 40,000 forints. It's worth a third less than it was five years ago. You shouldn't be proud of that. You should be ashamed of that. That's why we have to do something about it. In the same way as regards the minimum wage, where it is a little more than in 2010, but it is 5 thousand forints less in purchasing value. And if you look at it, I'll tell you again, if you compare the minimum wage to the minimum wage net, you'll see the scissors opening. Worse positional conditions include people with a lower income relationship than they were. That needs to be changed. These are their basic promises. Not to make such revelations as the government spokesperson does, on which one can't come to the conclusion that the government spokesperson has thought through what he said. Who, then, is the fool who, if he had a job in this Hungarian world today, would give up his job in order to become a public employee? Yeah, and if you give up, you can't even be a public servant because you're banned from this option for three months. Who's that fool? Tell me honestly. Do you not think that there is a reason for the termination of the legal relationship, whether by mutual agreement or due to the possible termination of the worker? Is there a reason why, where appropriate, you would be obliged to check these conditions and their reasons, that, in addition to eviscerating, the working conditions are not ensured? That you're doing your job under life-threatening circumstances, and you don't want to die tomorrow because your family will be completely out of control? Don't you think there might be reasons like this behind it? Maybe that's what we should think about. Look! I think this policy that you've been pursuing for the fifth year, really, I don't think it's taking me any further. It doesn't take you forward, and it's not in the best interest of the people. We should change that. Maybe it's like I said. But if you think otherwise, I'm asking you here, in the last seconds, to tell me. Let him argue with you. Let's talk about this. Let's make it better. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-06-17-150	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-06-17-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Perhaps as a teacher, as a historian, Mr. President will allow me to live with a little historical reflection. The Council of Public Works in Budapest made a very good name for himself at the time, and the Council of Public Works was a very good name for the public. And you know why? Because in the construction of Budapest's public works, in the construction of public buildings, he was able to show something about the work. You have launched a program called community service, which, according to my father's statement, would be suited to the poverty work of the 30's. Then this job, the sweeping, the maintenance of public spaces was called a job of poverty. So I would ask you, either for the sake of historical loyalty or for the sake of the dignity of the workers, to use community service carefully and in a proper context. The Council of Public Works in Budapest has advanced and gained recognition with the object of the work, the construction of public works and public buildings. I'd like to refer you back to a debate we had yesterday, Mr Secretary, when you said you didn't even accept a cup of coffee from anyone. But the Hungarian people are paying you! So when you introduce a bill of poster as a representative of the government, which is obviously a corruption suspect, because as long as ESMA owned the poster on the electric poles, you considered it a threat to transport, now that it's in the hands of another Fidesz owner, no longer. So think about what you've sworn to do, Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-152	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Miklós Simon, Fidesz.
u2015-06-17-153	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We could get used to Congressman Gúr's demagoguey, because what you are saying, my dear fellow Member, is what demagogy is all about. But Congressman Szilágyi of Jobbik did the same. It is clear, my fellow Members, that you have not given a moment's attention to people who, unfortunately, are forced to do community work. Do you know what kind of inheritance your government has left us, sabolchis, shearings? I'd like to quote a number or two from the area of Nyírbátor. Seven thousand unemployed in the birchbátor region, my honourable socialist fellow Member. Seven thousand. And now this number is about 2,000. Seven thousand people weren't helped back then. Your community service consisted of sweeping the streets. I have been hired, I am talking about our region, 1500 people, my dear fellow Member Gur, to whom they have paid 60 thousand forints, and 5 thousand have been left at 22 800 forints. I think that the Start Public Works Programme that the Fidesz government launched in 2012 in our region was a lifeline. 'Cause we've reached the point where anyone who wants to work can. As a result, 4500-5000 people are employed by municipalities in the public works programme. But not in what was at your time, dear Congressman Gúr, when the public worker was sweeping the right side of the street from morning to noon, then from noon to four o'clock, if they had completed the time, they were sweeping the left side of the street. [[István Szávay: The same goes on now.]] Valuable public employment is underway. If you are curious about it, I will arrange for you and you will come to the small region of Nyírbátor, you will see what kind of foil tents we have built in the Start Public Works Programme, only 1500 square meters on Nyírbogat, my fellow Member. [[15.40]] What kind of mushroom production is going on, what kind of melon-- [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's for sure!]] fruit production in our region [[Zoltán Demeter: Do you see these from Pest?]] What agricultural programmes have we started, and what buildings and processing plants have we built in this public work programme? ! I forgot to tell you that you didn't give me a forint to buy. They expected the community worker team to build a sidewalk without a single forint being used. Now this means 20 percent in the Start Public Works Programme, and this ensures that public workers can build meaningful work or, where appropriate, a sidewalk or a trench and build an inland drainage system. These people are doing a lot of useful things, and I reject them on their behalf, dear fellow Member, to humiliate them. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: We are also trying to reject it!]] But I'd like to bring up a couple of cases as to why this bill is necessary. Because, dear fellow Members, we are out of labour. We're in the area of Nyírbátor that there's no such person [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] There's no working hand to apply for market jobs. In the area of Nyírbátor, Mr Gúr, listen to me, 900 new jobs are starting this year, 900 of which Coloplas will start 430 - I'm sure you know the name of this company for you too - 420 out of 900 . For this, the state, the Fidesz government, provides HUF 1.1 billion in funding. The other is such a large-scale job creation: 300 new jobs will be opened at the aircraft component factory. And you like to know what's going on? That there aren't enough applicants. There is no reason, dear fellow Members, because we have paid back what we promised at the time: instead of providing aid, we want to give people jobs. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: It's no use!]] A job that will result in a living. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Allow me to mention some aspects to you in favour of the bill. Several executives contacted us and asked us to try to get from large-scale public employment to the processing plant. I would like to mention the names of two companies to you. One is an agricultural processing plant, canned plant, in Hungarian, this is Gloster Kft. Mary's puddle. Last year, the company came to the point where it needed 120 working hands when the cherry season came and wanted to process the cherry, and there were only 60 applicants, so it couldn't start the third shift. I think it is very important that we view the public work programme as an opportunity for the labour market. I very much hope that with this solution, these agricultural holdings, not fidesz farmers, as Mr Szilágyi indicated, have the opportunity to move from the public work programme to the agricultural processing industry. But do you think it's natural for Central Europe's largest winged cutting bridge, which operates in Nyírgelse, to carry people from Nagykároly, to carry people from the Partium to work by bus to Nyírgelse when there is 10-15 percent unemployment in Nyírbérbátor, and a large proportion of public employment that represents a thousand jobs? I don't think it's natural. The natural thing is to get as many workers as is necessary for the operation of the plant from the vicinity of a plant. That is why I think this bill is good, because it gives us the opportunity for these plants, these jobs, to remain and produce value. This is what you expect to create jobs, an important tool for keeping jobs. That's my opinion. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-17-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás in a 15-minute time frame. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Let's hear it, let's hear it! István Szávay: Let's hear it!]]
u2015-06-17-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. On the one hand, we have been asked here not to use the expression of public works or public employment with respect to public works organised at the construction sites in the major capital. First of all, I think it is worth saying that public works or public employment did not start in 2010 and that we have already talked about public work and public employment significantly before. The effectiveness of public employment, say, between 96 and 98, is clearly difficult to compare. In any case, I see that the debate on this draft law is now well suited to the fact that all political and economic and employment policy differences that exist between the two sides of Parliament and its two horseshoes are repeatedly brought forward by my fellow Members during the debate on this bill. The objective of the bill is clear, and this has been said, after all, by a number of pro-government benches, that in areas where public employment has clearly become a competition for employment in the market, especially seasonal work, we will also have the possibility to regulate it, and the possibility of allowing seasonal work to be carried out. The question has been repeatedly raised as to whose interests this comes from. I can only repeat one of my fellow opposition Members here. Basically, small farmers and small farmers have turned to the government for problems that they simply could not find a seasonal worker. They cannot employ larger numbers throughout the year, but they cannot find seasonal workers for campaign-like work, seasonal work, because public employment is a rival to seasonal work. The extent to which public employment is valued by my fellow Members as a useful activity, to what extent not, is obviously partly a matter of political setting, political position or meeting point. The speeches also sometimes brought it up, arguing with themselves, that, indeed, in order to be able to plan public work, either in the Start sample programmes, where there is a need for continuity, and at the same time it was a question of why public employment should be required, why we are pushing people into public employment in the same speech. I can only repeat it, and obviously it will not please you; I can only repeat that public employment is not a permanent solution for people, for those employed in public employment or as an employment form. We do not think that employment problems should be solved in this way; neither does the worker. We do not think that public workers should be educated, directed to work as public workers for the rest of their lives. Yes, the opportunity must be given to earn income through public employment, and the opportunity must be given to have all of the social benefits of employment in one community. At the same time, the aim is to make these forms of public employment useful to local governments, forestry and water management associations. [[15.50]] At the same time, once again, the aim is not to compete with the employment of the labour force in the market. What my fellow Member Nándor Gúr repeated on a regular basis and several times today can obviously be a kind of dispute about what kind of wages, what value of remuneration and pay can be rewarded. Obviously, the government side would be happiest if we could increase wages much more intensively than the current wage increase programmes that have just been launched. We have made it clear that in Hungary there will only be a wage increase, only a salary increase that has an economic basis, and that once again we cannot get to the point where wage increases are based on borrowing or indebtedness. We therefore agree on all issues where wages must be increased, but in our view, the performance of the economy must be increased. So I clearly believe that, by allowing the public to leave the seasonal work, and here it is, that there is a public employment relationship here, he will leave the seasonal work, and then return - by interrupting his public employment relationship - to the public employment at the end of the seasonal work, he will also have the security to return to the public employment, while at the same time doing economic activity and work useful in all aspects of the seasonal work. That is why I am asking Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-17-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-06-17-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Simon, just that if anyone humiliated the public workers, it was you. They humiliated him by taking a third of their wage power. He was humiliated. You can say anything, stand up the Secretary of State, say whatever you want. [[Defiance. Dr. Imre Vas: Up until now, you've demanded an answer.]] The HUF 60 200 is more than HUF 40,000. It's that simple. What you have in hand is what determines how you value these people. That's how they estimate it. Instead of 60 200 forints, they give them 40,000 forints worth of money. That's your appreciation. Continue this journey, and we will get to the point that perhaps half the minimum wage will not be taken over by these people! The other part of the story, Mr Simon, is that it is worth creating. Look, all I can give you is examples that when I was a representative of Edelény, the Edelény district, We have built with public employees, 14-16 public employees, and we have also renovated the building of the small castle, which is important for tourism today, say, in the town of Szendrő, and we have carried out types of activities that have reported the renovation of institutions performing basic care tasks, in kindergartens, schools and additional activities with public employees. We've been trying, personally, to keep the story together with value creation as much as possible. I'm only telling you this so that you're aware that, say, ten years ago, there has been value-creating activity, even more so than in this period. And my last sentence is, like, if anyone humiliates these people, it's you, this government, by taking away one third of their previous salary five years ago. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-158	Thank you. The next two-minute comment is Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP.
u2015-06-17-159	Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, There are not many, but listen to me, please be kind to me, there are not many left in this debate. But remember one thing. The government that throws 500 billion in the 2016 budget out the window, don't you dare say there's no money to raise wages in this country. This money could have been given to a raise every last penny! The other, my dear fellow Member Simon, is no longer able to make a living by pointing back. They've been on the wheel for five years, it's been enough time to do what they should have done, what they promised. They assume government responsibility for their unrealized promises, lied about their rural development programme, energy modernisations have not been implemented, and there is no job creation programme. My fellow Member Simon's speech was absurd to me, because I do not understand something, and then be kind, Mr Secretary of State, now that he is finally here and speaking, and the honourable fellow Members, tell me that if Gloster Kft. needs workers and workers in Máriapócs, what is there to prevent these people from working on market wages? ! Why do they want public workers? What are the obstacles to decent wages, to the extent that the minimum wage is decent wages in Hungary, because it should be more, in our view, but what is the obstacle to this Kft., Gloster Kft. In Mary's Puddle, as you said, and all the other companies who called you on the phone have these people employed on decent market wages? Tell me! 'Cause what's about to happen is 85 percent of the minimum wage, if guaranteed, is 87 percent, but they don't even get it, like I told you, based on my field studies. So I'm asking you very nicely to stand up as many as you are and tell me, answer my question, why do these companies want public workers?
u2015-06-17-160	Thank you. I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2015-06-17-161	Thank you very much. There's a quote coming up. Do not think that this mass of legislation that we live in has been created by accident. What I've learned in a year since I've been a minister is that through these laws, interest groups apply their own perspectives. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now, this is no less of a personality than John Lazarus himself said, this is his speech in the autumn, and he spoke of such laws as are being debated now, honourable Members. We have just heard two groups of interests from our fellow Member Simon who have obviously taken the call, called you, ordered the legislation, and we are discussing it here in front of the House. And a very interesting... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's what I'm talking about. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] - children, let me tell you. - it was a very interesting speech from the congressman. He said it was a community service pogrom. Well, that's what we're talking about, this is a pogrom that you're about to implement here in terms of public workers, that's exactly the problem. He says that 4-5 thousand people work in the local government. Yeah, so the rest of it, about 230,000, where does it work? Yeah, I know, at the KLIK, right? 'Cause just like they fired a bunch of people at the KLIK, they're being re-employed as public workers, and, yeah, I'd say these people are gonna be able to be sent away for agricultural seasonal work. That's what your bill is about. I beg you to read, as you did not submit it, as an outsider, what is the real content, what is the real meaning of this thing. And yes, the problem is, as long as one of the lobby companies you mentioned is bringing people over from Partium, I'd like to send the foreman very much there, I'll tell you honestly - are you sure everyone's registered? 'Cause you know, the reason I hear these things and stories is that they're bringing over workers from Romania who've been working in absolute black. So, I'd be interested to know how they got there. Unfortunately, however, they are going out to Austria for six times the wages you have paid from Hungary and Austria. [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] Hungarian intellectuals, often teachers to work in summer. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-17-162	Thank you very much. In the next 15 minutes' time frame, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Ms MSZP.
u2015-06-17-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Next year's budget is 70 billion forints more public employment than this year. You know, Congressman Simon, not for market-based employment for normal wages, but for community service. If I'm to be cynical, I'm saying now that they've distributed the land to my friends, now they're giving me free labor, because, of course, now we need the state or taxpayers to pay the rent, if they've got the free land, then we need the government to provide it. But he mentioned in the public work programme what value-making work they are doing, so let me give you an example of my own region, from Bishop's Lady, where there is a fidesz city administration. [[16.00]] There are ten acres of public workers working in a foil tent, over a hundred. There's a board meeting on the Internet, so I'm only telling you this to protect them and everyone else. They turned to the mayor's office with a petition, 86 out of 100 signed it, six people representing the community workers took the petition to the mayor's office, the mayor's office. The petition is about the working conditions they work under; the chemical diary is forged and filled out afterwards; the chemicals are sprayed with withdrawn chemicals; the workers are not wearing protective clothing, they are exposed to poisoning - they can no longer stand the work because they are afraid of their own health - and, honourable Member, hold on now: the vegetables produced which may be sprayed incorrectly - possibly the day before or on that day - may be placed in the kindergarten kitchen, the school kitchen and the care system of the elderly. You know, children have been poisoned in Bishop's Lady for years with the approval of the Fidesz city administration, as you know. [[Dr. Miklós Simon: This is so stupid! Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] You know, I was really thinking, when I heard about this case, what was going on in this country, what was everything they were hiding with all sorts of laws and regulations. We're not saying that... [[Dr. Völner to Paul:]] You don't have to hold his head, Congressman. It's a done deal, go and see. The other is when the congressman says they've been sweeping the left side of the street - and now they're sweeping the right side. You know, nothing's changed. I'm just, you know, asking if all people were born to be public workers in this country. Anyone who can escape from this country and earns a living in another country because he doesn't want to become a public worker. And they're redesigning the education system and all systems so that there's no chance for the child, the growing generation, to think about anything else now; see the elimination of high schools, and we could go further, the whole curriculum, as it is designed. So, I was shocked to see this law, what else you can figure out, and what else you will be able to bring to this House, that it is possible to humiliate people even more today in Hungary. And when you bring up why they don't report to the plants, shouldn't you check it out? [[Dr. Imre Vas: Whether or not... the Fidesz ranks. Dr. Pál Völner: Can we...]] The conditions under which you can go to work. Sometimes you should also see why people don't accept the job. That maybe they're offering them working conditions or a salary that's not better with a spark? Or are they so eviscerated that you have to work 16 instead of 8:00? Six out of seven days or seven have to be worked out by paying for five days? Or should we look at the work code of how it has been modified, what applies to an employee, and what rights does the employer have? A lot of things cause you to say that an employee doesn't take a job. And, you know, I always watch you guys smile about it. All I see is that we do not live in one Hungary, and you do not want to acknowledge that. It would be nice if you could face what's out there outside the walls of this House. And you can say that there are hateful politicians and hate speech going on here. No! You have to go out to the weekdays and see how this country is, how people are, how our children are, and why they don't want to stay in this country because we love this country. It's just that love isn't enough now. You know, you don't have to put $70 billion in community service in a budget. Market-based work must be offered to workers and not to public works. Don't give him the last chance to go to community service. Give him a normal wage, and he'll make a living. You know, I'm stunned when I listen to community service... You know, I'm gonna be really mean, and I'm gonna tell you to get involved. Learn what it's like to be a community worker today. And maybe they won't be so protective after that, but they'll be working to create normal jobs and not end up with hundreds of thousands of people running away from this country and not wanting to come back. That's what we should be working on. It's the government's biggest task today. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-17-164	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-06-17-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for giving me some thought, although I consider that he was far from addressing the issues which were affected by the Members standing up in opposition benches, and so, let us say, it is difficult to argue again that you are saying something, some general sentences, and that you feel that you have finally spoken and participated in the debate. It's not a debate, it's not a debate. You can do that for him. I'll give you some handholds in that regard. In order not to be what is today in Hungary, to continue with the last sentences of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, so that the vast majority of young people questioned do not think that when it comes to wanting to continue their lives after completing their studies, your answer is that I am leaving Hungary and looking for a decent opportunity to make a living, you basically have to touch things that are in the best interests of the people, not those that serve your buddies and your pereput. I said one, but I can give you many examples of this, I said the 800 million dividend, the 150 million forints for 225 people that year as a wage. Reconnect, Mr. Secretary, is that okay? ! Or is this real wild capitalism, and you're building it? So, the dog is buried there, you know, which you don't want to talk about. That they're drawing a living space in a citation that closes people. You do not want to see more and more thinking, creative people in this country. No, you want something completely different: people shouldn't think, people should live their lives in a slave race quoted in quotes, suffer their everyday lives, and, if possible, see people who live their lives even worse than they do, and that's why they should enjoy themselves while some people are humiliating, while some people acquire unfathomable wealth for these people. One word for one hundred, this contradiction should be resolved. We should give a helping hand where this is needed. People should be there to help themselves, whether in wages or working conditions, in many other ways, where they cannot help themselves. You don't have to convey the gels to the level of the serfs, where people are eviscerated anyway. It is not to be where, with a simple salary of 500 forints, everything is out of hand, and not even the money you pay for your day's work, as I said, is handed over to him in black employment. What are you talking about? ! Legalised employment within a fair framework should not be more disadvantaged than in the case of black employment. If that's the case, if you're building this, employment at 85 percent of the minimum wage, and you're creating this opportunity for some people to choose people to go to your friends and do their work, it's not going to be anything, it's a chemical you're building. Look, on the other hand, decent people with good intentions have to pay decent wages to earn a living, and on the other hand, to provide working conditions where their lives or health are not at risk. You know, if you really thought you wanted to help me with this, and say you set a target that I would suggest otherwise, so that there are no workers in Hungary who receive less money, earn less money than the sum of the minimum living per person, then this will consume about a 1.5-2 per cent of the sum of the HUF 17 000 billion budget. [[16.10]] If you want to or you can make politics for people, you know, for those who are called little people, if you want to do anything for these people, then that's the first step. The first step is to provide them with a minimum wage position, which is about accessing the minimum amount of money. Don't tell me it's loans, not loans, like that. 3000 billion forints were exported, confiscated from private pension funds, burned most of the funds, bought shares, which is not worth as much as it was when it was purchased, but I don't want to say many examples. A responsible government puts what it wants on the board, it sets what it wants to be solved, it has a margin of manoeuvre. The use of resources is defined in many respects, but every government has room for manoeuvre. You don't have to talk about the little people, the hardworking little people, no, you have to act for them. You won't do that. You're doing the opposite. What you have done - it cannot be emphasized enough, what you have done - is that the most disadvantaged, vulnerable people, the public-employed people, can take into their hands a third less money than they did five years ago. That's absurd, that's what's unacceptable. That's your policy! For some, a tremendous amount, a dividend of HUF 800 million in a given year, and for the 225 people employed by it, HUF 157 million in total. I see this is your policy, and you support it. This is just not in line with the interests of the vast majority of Hungarians. You support a narrow circle of oligarchs, a narrow circle of pereputty. That's what's important to you. I see that's what their values have become, that's what their values have become. Either they are able to change that, or I must suggest that they strive as soon as possible not to wait three years, because they do not to the benefit of people but to the detriment of them. And the public - as I said - those who suffer most from this story - must do their job for hard wages, at the mercy of the wage slave. And then a little more about public employment. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély gave a deterrent example, one that could not be done without punishment. Where is the control of these things? Where is the bond that you must embody so that others do not become endangered at the end of such a sequence of processes? What are you doing at this hour? Look into the blind world? It doesn't matter, it's not about us? How can that be? How does that work? It's not politics. It's how it works. How can you ignore the supervisory authorities that operate like this, not draw your attention? These records didn't come out today, they didn't come out yesterday. Mr. Secretary, do you think that's okay? I don't think it's okay. It is not okay, and it is not okay that when you talk about the temporary handling of problems in public employment, but we do not want employment issues to be resolved this way, while in the budget they are spending HUF 70 billion in contrast to this year. What you say and what you do contradicts each other. Shouldn't we synchronize the saying with action? If you say so in the budget, then you should also say that yes, we will go ahead and do the expansion of public employment for this and so. And you're talking about the opposite. Either you consider yourself part of this government, or you don't, you should decide. At least he's doing what comes back in the budget. And, you know, in terms of public employment, it would be worth examining, say, the usefulness of the products produced, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, their specific costs. When people in public employment tell me that I have to do what I have to do because I have to, but let's just say I'm bringing 200 forints of eggs to life, not me, through the hen, is that okay? Is that something to stand up for, to brag about? Shouldn't we use how to make processes more productive, how to make stories more specific? But this can be supported by examples not only in livestock production but also in crop production. So, what I'm trying to say is that there's so much maladministration, so much dissonance in this area that they have so much to do. If they were already committed to expanding public employment for nothing but to improve statistics, they would at least try to do it fair and fair, along with the interests of the people. Not while they are being sucked out, while not providing them with a minimum of working conditions, which goes in line with labour law. No, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Within the framework of simple employment, they will bring it to businesses for HUF 500 in bulk. You said, Mr. Secretary, that this will basically help small entrepreneurs. Look, over the past few years, you have brought in a law that has not been delimited to the fact that employers have access to a contribution allowance for people who work in agriculture, a small business operator, a large business operator, and people who work in agriculture. But it was also added to the amount of 100,000 forints. I told you earlier that this is five thousand forints less today than the minimum wage gross. 22,000 forints less than the guaranteed minimum wage, you know, which is payable for skilled workers. Then what are they trying to do? That they don't even get the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage? 'Cause they don't give you a contribution allowance anymore, they don't give you a boost. No, I'm telling you, I'm not sure it's for them. So, there is so much contradiction in what they do in this area, in the field of public employment, that there is something to talk about, and not just two general sentences, as you said earlier. And, you know, what they've been doing, not just in public employment, but in general in the world of work over the past five years, there's a result, only negative. The result is that 600,000 people have left this country. Two years ago, Matolcsy was talking about 500,000. Unfortunately, today we're at 600,000. 600,000 people have left this country and, as an economic refugee, they create material wealth elsewhere for their family to live; because you have failed to fulfill their basic promise. They have failed to create 1 million new jobs, jobs producing tax forints in the economy, in order to create an economic environment that will result in this. This is their greatest shame in addition to eviscerating people, reducing their wages rather than increasing them. In the meantime, of course, they did not create a beer mat tax surface, but a beer factory-sized tax surface. If you do not believe me, ask John Lazarus how he feels about this. Perhaps then you will receive detailed information and will consider it more credible. One word, like a hundred, is not by chance what is happening in this country, that it is very difficult to persuade young people to try to live their lives at home in the coming period. And it's even harder to bring them home. You can see how many people are moving back to Hungary within the framework of the programme. Come home. It's not a coincidence. Many because they do not see the safety of their livelihoods, and many because they say that as long as you govern and engage in this kind of governance, they do not want to engage in work in this country. And that's a big problem. Therefore, the policy they are pursuing should be changed. And it should only be fulfilled, not more than what they have undertaken: 1 million new jobs in the economy, jobs producing tax forints, and wages that are a decent livelihood for people. The net amount of the minimum wage taken in hand shall not be less than the minimum wage. It's worth fighting for. Try it, you've got three more years. There's no more. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-166	Thank you very much. In the next 15 minutes' time frame, Mr Tamás László, Member Fidesz. [[16.20]]
u2015-06-17-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable opposition representatives! In my speech today, I wish to protect you from the pipe vision that is getting stronger as we move forward in this debate. You expect this law to solve all the problems of employment, or to count on things that are not in this law. When you're called to account, it's very, very much in the government's agenda. Consider, for example, how much has been spent, say, on economic development in the period 2007-13, from EU funds: only 24 percent in total. And what the government is planning for this European Union cycle, for the period 2014-20: 60%, dear ladies and gentlemen, dear opposition representatives! This 60 percent means that economic development is worth 4300 billion forints, and I believe that this is the answer to all of your problems, and that is actually a solution to the thoughts that you are asking of this law. You don't have to answer to that. Let me give you a list of just a few things, because this was part of your speeches about what the programme for economic development contains in the EU's 2014-20 cycle: supporting the entrepreneurialisation of the unemployed and inactive; targeted support for entry into the labour market; improving the employability of disadvantaged unemployed and inactive people; youth guarantees; development of labour market services; support for social enterprises; development of the social economy - and so on. This is unheard of broad, comprehensive, and there is a masterpiece in the whole employment policy and economic development; you are asking for a sideline. I think you're going to have to let go of this sideline, with all due respect. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. In the next 15 minutes' time frame, Mrs Bernadett Wind, LMP.
u2015-06-17-169	Dear colleague László, I cannot let go of this sideline because it is the subject of this debate, namely, T/5144. a bill. And here I am asking everyone very much to stop for a moment, because I think that we need to clarify a very fundamental question, and I am asking you, and indeed I really expect that the present representative of the Ministry will answer that question. Our fellow Member, Mr Simon Miklós, admitted that there will be fixed or forced labor because there are not enough workers in the labour market. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] You have not come to the conclusion that you have overworked the public work programme, but that you will and will bring about a law that has two very serious moments, both of which are seriously problematic. What we can see here is that the following algorithm has been used: there the company - one of our fellow Members - who says that he does not have a worker, because the community service program has taken everything away. The reaction to this is to tell the mayor who's going to call the employment center, which gives him a database, and who's going to go to seasonal work, whether you want it or not, whether you like it or not, will be redirected to seasonal work by the mayor. [[Speaking to members of the government who are speaking with one another:]] It may be very funny for you, my fellow Members, but the thing is that it is very easy to laugh at these people from here on in the Parliament's gold walls. This is what these people will do in the summer. So please, if there are five or six of you here in this debate, please honor me by listening. And what happens next is also in this law, in this T/5144, that if this man resigns or is forced to resign by common accord, he will not even have a public job; that is to say, he must stay in this company, or he will not have a job afterwards. So I'm asking you now, Mr. Secretary of State, and I insist on the answer: is it such a diabolical system? So that's the level you're trying to go for the companies? You'll get the community workers, you can take them to seasonal work? And then how does it come to this that when you're at work, you work there, and then you quit, you can't go back to community service? How does this system come together? I'd like to understand what was in Sándor Pintér's mind when he put these two paragraphs together. And my other question is very fundamental, and I also expect an answer to that question: what is the fundamental obstacle to these people's non-market jobs, i.e. market wages. What is the fundamental obstacle to this? Why do these companies want public workers? Why is this necessary, why this system? Why do the mayors have to play an employment agency? Why do public workers have to deal with the placement of work? Why did they build this system? What is there to prevent these people, who are there as public workers and who work on extremely low wages, from being job seekers, and for market wages, all these jobs that our fellow Member Simon says are waiting for them, they get this? Be nice and clear this whole thing up, because it's getting really embarrassing what you guys put on the table. It seems practically like the Fidesz has made a deal with a bunch of companies, even here they're naming certain companies who call in, and they're getting the public workers at a price. Why can't these people be employed on a normal market salary, with decent employee rights - what your Labour Code allows them to do. Clear this up, be kind, or you'll be left with an ode that you've made a deal with Fidesz. KDNP has made a deal with companies and is practically selling out public workers at a depressed price. I'd like to hear some answers to my questions.
u2015-06-17-170	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. Yes, Miklós Simon asked for two minutes.
u2015-06-17-171	Yes, my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Wind, I have made a deal with all the companies in my constituency. Because he's an individual congressman - but I can't explain it to you, he's not an individual. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, my God! Dr. Wind Bernadett: Can I still stay here?]] - An individual congressman needs to talk to everyone. [[Dr. Attila Mesterházy: Then why didn't you come to justice?]] The problems must be collected and these problems transmitted. [[Intercoms from the opposition side. Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not what the bill is about! The president's ringing the bell.]] I do not think that it is such a crime that if a Member is informed about the affairs of his region, and what is more, that is my job. That's why I told you you'd be welcome in my constituency to come and I'll show you how to deal with these problems. What's more, I'm taking her to some of the settlements where people are happy to work, because they've formed collectives in public works that they're happy to participate in. I am not saying that this is the saving, but if there is nothing else, if we have inherited it from the socialists, then something must be done - but there is already light at the end of the tunnel, because, as I said, 900 new jobs will be created in the Birbátor constituency, with the help of the Fidesz Government, my honourable fellow Member. If you want to come, I'll explain this to you in detail. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-17-172	Thank you very much. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, the notary of Parliament.
u2015-06-17-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Simon, I ask you to tell as few of my fellow Members as possible what you think of this story. [[Defiance.]] So you can go in the right direction with this thing if there's still a chance. That's one part of the thing I'd like to ask you with great respect. The other part is that if you say anything, also take into account that what you do to the public is deep exploitation, a process that is unacceptable with normal sense; I can safely say it is unacceptable. The whole point of the story is: if you want to do anything responsible for the people involved in public employment, you will improve their working conditions, you will entrust them with a meaningful public task, something that really has value-creating activity, and you will pay them. They are paid; they are given decent wages, and they are not taken away from them. You have done the opposite: you have taken money and resources from them. If you have any responsibility, you will reverse it. If you don't, keep doing what you've done. [[16.30]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the transfer of something to the Ministry of Interior as a public employment does not mean that you know so much about this matter. Experience in recent years has shown me that they are very keen on this story, showing me that they have something to learn from colleagues in the former labour sphere. Some of them are already employed, I know. Listen to them. They're better off than making bill proposals and presenting them to Parliament in this summer's insane heat. Mr. President, my two minutes are up. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-174	Thank you very much. The next two-minute speaker is Mrs Bernadett Wind.
u2015-06-17-175	Ladies and gentlemen, I need two answers. One is that if there really is a shortage of labour in the labour market, why these people cannot be employed for market wages. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Yes! Why not?]] That's the question I'm looking for. If you're such a good representative in your individual area, make sure these people get market wages. [[Nándor Gúr: Quickly!]] And the other is why a clot needs a bandage. If there is such a shortage of labour, why is it necessary to tie these people to their workplaces, to leave them free, or, if necessary, to give up in common agreement, why do these people need to be tied to their workplaces? Because the story you've been telling here is completely confusing. It's obviously because it's not true what you're talking about and you know you're wrong. Just because I'm being lectured doesn't make it any better. You are responsible Members, you must give us answers. If someone in this Parliament tells me certain information, my honourable fellow Member, then he is responsible for every moment and do not be embarrassed if I ask you or anyone who speaks out on what has happened in particular. Because it looks very bad what you've been leading up to because that's exactly how this system is designed. I'm gonna ask you two questions one more time, and I'm gonna need some answers. Why do people not work on market wages if there really is a shortage of workers? And the other is, why do you need a nugget when there really is a shortage of workers, as you say in a concordant way? Answer me!
u2015-06-17-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform Mr Simon Miklós that I have no opportunity to speak for two minutes. If you change it to a proper speech [[Dr. Miklós Simon: Yes.]] then, depending on the president's consideration, I can give you the floor to speak again. [[István Szávay: So what? Dr. Simon Miklós: Please.]] But I'm gonna have to ask you to press the button. [[Dr. Miklós Simon: Yes, thank you very much.]] I would like to address Mr Simon Miklós once again. Here you go.
u2015-06-17-177	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, if you would have liked to listen, I did not say that these companies are working on public workers. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: That's what the law is all about!]] I told them that these companies came to me, that there was no workman's hand. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: This situation should be improved!]] First, one company, its birchgers, has been working for more than ten years, employs between 500 and 600 people all the time. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: There is nothing to talk about!]] Secondly, the other company, Gloster Kft., which is a canned factory, employs 150 people all the time. I also know the salaries, and I would like to say with great respect that both companies offer market salaries above HUF 100,000 net, and unfortunately there are no candidates. You can say, though, ladies and gentlemen, that when the cherry season comes, why we are not helping this problem. If there's no one to work at the cannery or no one to cut the duck off at the slaughterhouse, it's no use waiting for us to create new jobs. [[Dr. István Józsa: They won't pay!]] But, sir, it's okay. [[Noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] The public worker minimum wage is 40,000 forints, that's what Nándor Gúr said, but it's not true, because it's around 53,000 forints. [[Nándor Gúr: I'm telling you, in purchasing power! At least count.]] - One. Two, these companies pay double, and they still don't have a workforce. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-17-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Again, I would like to ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Tibor Pogácsás, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Tibor Scones: Yes.]] Yes, he wants to answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-17-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the one hand, I trust that in a previous comment by Nándor Gúr there was only a slip of the tongue when he talked about building a nursing home with public workers and public workers. It was probably a nursing home. [[Nándor Gúr: From the nursing home, that's right! István Szávay: Indeed, this was the most important!]] And they didn't raise the elderly. But in addition to that, I think that there was much agreement between our views during the debate. Once again, I must point out that we want to provide the opportunity to carry out seasonal work in the event of the interruption of the public employment relationship. In the course of the debate, it has repeatedly come to light as to whose interest it is. I think it is in everyone's interest in this country to leave public work for the public. So you're in a public employment relationship. If you have the opportunity to work in seasonal work, you can enter into seasonal work with the public employee and then continue to enter into a terminated relationship, and in the public employment you can do public employment for an appropriate period of time with your initial contract period. It has been said why businesses and companies want public workers. I think that they want workers and workers, and since the purpose of public employment and the government's aim is to do some kind of work for all people capable of working, this can be done in the context of public employment if the market players do not give it the opportunity. Obviously, there are those in public employment who were previously unemployed and who could be transferred to market employment. So it is clear that public employment between the unemployed and market employers can be an intermediate step in such a case and that public employment clearly aims to get people out of public employment into the primary labour market. So there is no particular background deal in this, obviously the companies mentioned by the Member are also looking for employees, as far as possible, from those who are able to do so. The question has been raised as to how the design of public employment can be resolved and, for example, how the Start sample programmes can work. That is why we are creating the opportunity and asking those who can plan their seasonal work every year to place on the table by 30 October of each year the need to act against public employment next year so that public employment programmes can be scheduled accordingly and, if appropriate, even the municipal Start programmes can be planned. In summary, and once again, I think that the draft law will help people from public employment status to the direct labour market. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: They are in forced labor!]] help the government to achieve full employment by 2018, and I therefore ask for the support of the draft law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-17-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. It follows now that the 1997 LXXVIII on speeding up and simplifying certain development investments in the capital and, in this context, on shaping and protecting the built environment. a general debate on the legislative proposal to amend law until closure. Gergely Gulyás, Imre Vas, Mónika Dunai and Attila Szabolcs, members of our Fidesz group, have a separate motion T/5135. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. [[16.40]]
u2015-06-17-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, By submitting the proposal, the aim of the National Assembly is to facilitate the achievement of the urban development objectives of the capital, on the one hand, the improvement of the quality of public transport in Budapest, and, on the other hand, the reconstruction and extension of the 3rd metro line in Budapest as a development of local public transport, on the other hand, the Budapest capital III. speeding up the preparation and implementation of the investment linked to the improvement of the flood safety of the stellar rinse in its district. As I have just mentioned, the proposal is about helping prepare for two investments, of which I am talking in more detail about the need to renovate metro line 3 that is more closely affecting my constituency, Ferencváros and Józsefváros. Metro line 3 plays an important role in the public transport of Budapest as Hungary's largest traffic public transport service. The 17.3 km line crossing the capital in the north-south direction between Kőbánya-Kispest and Újpest centre provides a wide-ranging travel connection to Budapest with 20 stations, 8 of which are connected to the people living in Józsefváros and Ferencváros. It proves that approximately half a million people choose metro line 3 for their journey, as 32 six-car trains, 120 metres long, with a capacity of about 1,000 people, transport passengers every 2-3 minutes at peak hours. This means that there are almost more people travelling on the trains of line 3 than on all the railway lines of the country combined. The line was built in five paces between the early 70s and 1990s, first between Deák Ferenc tér and Nagyvárad tér opened in 1976, four years later, in 1980 the Kőbánya-Kispest terminal was built, then in 1981 the section between Deák Ferenc tér and Lehel tér was added to the Árpád bridge, and in 84 the Újpest City Center station was completed with the northern terminal intended to be temporary. The tracks between Nagyvárad tér and Lehel tér station run in tunnels drilled about 30 metres below the city, while the line between Lehel tér and Újpest tér and Nagyvárad tér and Mr Bártó station is built with open technology at a depth of 5-10 metres from the surface, i.e. below the bark. There are 56 escalators in the metro stations and the underpasses of the 16 nodes associated with them, but the stops need significant improvement, as they have not been accessible to date. After more than three decades of service, Metro Line 3's orbit, stations, technical equipment and fittings became worn out during the continuous operation and became obsolete. Due to the under-financing of previous years, due to the lack of renovations, there has been an increasing number of delays and delays, and therefore the overall renewal of the line and fittings has become permanent. The extension of the Cabbage County was already included in the transport development plans of the capital city in the '80s. If feasibility studies support the need for enlargement, the long-planned section of Metro 3 can be built to the Kápásmegyeri residential estates with four new intermediate stops. At the end of May, the General Assembly adopted an agreement with BKV Zrt. on the provision of the money necessary for the renewal of metro line 3 and the conditions for the use of the source. According to the agreement, the renewal of Metro Line 3's fleet combined with modernisation is expected to be completed by 31 December 2017. The Metropolitan Municipality takes out a loan of HUF 60 billion for the renovation of the fleet. 6 of the proposal. According to its section, the construction company of the transport project is the municipality of Budapest or the municipality of Budapest, which is 100% owned by BKV Zrt., while the builder of the flood protection project is the municipality of Budapest. Thus, one of the objectives of this proposal is to enable the development of hundreds of thousands of Budapest's days, which are of major importance for the transport of the capital, to start as soon as possible without disruption, to be completed within the planned deadline and to be taken over by the people of Budapest. To this end, I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. More details on flood protection investments will be presented by my fellow Member Tamás László. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State János Fónagy wishes to speak. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-17-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you is designed to carry out two major development tasks in the capital. One of these tasks is the reconstruction of the M3 metro line, thus the renewal of one of the major transport axes of the capital and the second of the Budapest III. construction of a protection facility for flood protection on the coast of Rome, to be built in the district. The justification and necessity of these developments have been known for many years, so that their rapid implementation has not only the public interest of the district or the capital, but also, due to the central location of Budapest, important public interest tasks of the country as well. The flood protection of the Roman-coastal or stellar-mountain coastline, including the built-in area of 70 hectares on the Roman-coastal coast, must be ensured in the light of the experience of recent years' floods in the Danube, so that the protective device to be created is also suitable to prevent a significant flood load. Through the development, the life and property security of about 55,000 inhabitants of the affected area can be resolved with comfort. The need to renew and extend the 3rd metro line in Budapest, I do not think I need to introduce it to my fellow Members in particular in more detail. The reconstruction of the metro line serving more than 500 thousand passengers on working days is essential for the achievement of urban development objectives in the capital and to increase the quality of public transport in Budapest. The bill lays down specific rules on the administrative procedures for the improvements presented above. It notes that the performance of development, investment and related procurement activities related to the implementation of investments constitutes a priority public service mission from a national point of view. With the exception of railway authorisation procedures, administrative and administrative procedures are subject to shorter administrative and administrative deadlines compared to the general administrative time limits laid down by law, given that the legislation may set a shorter time limit for each type of procedure. The proposal also includes shorter procedural deadlines for the declaration of utility and energy service bodies. The provision allowing the decision of the first instance authority to be implemented, regardless of the possible remedy, shall be used to speed up the administrative procedures. [[16.50]] The proposal also states that, if the property concerned by the development is not owned by the builder, the necessary land use and other rights must be settled primarily by agreement, but, failing that, it also provides for the possibility of expropriating the property in addition to immediate and full compensation. In order to enable the developer of investments to exercise his or her rights and obligations in relation to them properly, the proposal confers on the investor a general right to inform and propose. The bill also lays down requirements for settlement planning other than general rules in relation to metro development. The reason for this is that, if the general rules needed to implement the investment are applied, the task ahead of us would be in many ways unsolvable. The bill also defines the builders of investments. It appoints the Municipality of Budapest, the Metro Renewal Investor or the Municipality of Budapest or BKV Zrt. as the builder of flood protection investments. This alternative designation will become final once decisions are taken on the provision of the necessary development resources. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a bill aimed at achieving the flood protection protection protection of the M3 metro line and the stellar cove provides a solution for basic social and economic needs. More than one and a half million people in Budapest and another 1 to 1.5 million people in Budapest are directly influenced by their daily lives. In view of all this, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-17-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Tamás László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The reconstruction and extension of the 3rd metro line in Budapest is a key development task for the capital, which is not to be postponed, which should be started as soon as possible with the involvement of European Union and domestic development resources in the next programming period and should be completed as soon as possible in order to ensure the safety of Budapest's transport. The development of the flood protection system in the capital is also of particular importance. Budapest III. In its district, the investment for the protection of the flood of the stellar courgette is inconvenient from a safety point of view, which has a significant public interest in the rapid operation of the project. With a length of 2860 km, the Danube is the second longest river in Europe. The water level variation of the river is significant and the value of the 24-hour flooding may exceed up to two metres. The water catchment area is 183,000 square kilometres to Budapest, i.e. nearly twice the total area of Hungary. A small historical reflection: after the destruction of the 1775 icy floods in 1779, the first flood protection works started in Buda and Pest. This, of course, was followed by the great flood of 1838 and we can mention Miklós Wesselényi. However, it can be said that in the period after 1871 the capital has made extraordinary efforts to build flood protection lines with the help of the Council of Public Works, which has already been mentioned. We must say that, in the last nearly 250 years, there has been an increasing focus on the protection of areas along the Danube, in parallel with the development of the city. In Budapest, the water level of the Danube has exceeded eight metres four times in the last 15 years. On the trail of the Danube about 29 kilometers of capital, the coasts need to be renovated and strengthened in several places. In the last 20 years, however, nothing has happened in the area of the settlement of the Danube coasts and flood protection because there was no unified will and resources were fragmented. It is enough to mention that the Danube was under the control of twelve districts, so I consider it important that the management of the Danube's banks in Budapest has now become a central, metropolitan treatment. So the long-standing problem of Budapest is flood protection, including a largely defenceless area, III. district Solution of flood protection of Aranyhegyi-patak and Barát-patak and the areas bordered by the Danube. During the fall of the 2013 record Danube flood wave, there was a near state of havária along the road of the Nanási Road-Kings, as well as the filling of the Aranyhegy Creek and the estuary of the Friend Creek. The filling of streams is neither structurally nor altitudely consistent with the increased flood load nor with the new level of flood in Duna established by the BM Decree 41/2014. In the area of stellar rinsing, a possible flood disposal directly endangers the lives and security of 55,000 people, so it is vital to build and install the protective structure as soon as possible. Furthermore, the aim of the project is not only to build protection, but also to fully recultivate the area, taking into account environmental aspects. The open invitation to tender to carry out the modified planning task was adopted last week by the Capital Committee. The primary objective of the provisions of the draft law relating to flood protection investment is to ensure that the necessary permits are received as soon as possible and that the procedures of the authorities involved in the implementation are simplified or accelerated. Ladies and gentlemen, The flood protection defenses are not built for ten, twenty, but even a hundred years. According to UN reports, extreme weather conditions may become more frequent in the future as well. It is therefore important that flood protection developments defining the security of the whole capital should not be hampered by bureaucratic obstacles, and that, on the one hand, shorter deadlines should be set for the general administrative procedural deadlines. On the other hand, if the real estate necessary for carrying out the investments is to be acquired, it may be carried out under the general rules on expropriation under which the property owner concerned is to be compensated immediately and in full. Both investments are of great importance in terms of both personal and property protection, and therefore their start cannot be delayed. The fact that a project is rated as a priority for the national economy does not mean that the State is the investor; whoever believes this is completely mistaken. In many cases, this is already a good practice, otherwise the bill will name the Municipality of Budapest and the BKV as an investor. Thus, the law, in addition to, inter alia, the aim of speeding up authorisation procedures, leaves the role of project owner in the capital. The state and capital investments in Budapest are coordinated, helping each other. In order to ensure that these key developments in the capital are implemented as quickly and as easily as possible, I would like to ask you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, these are two important issues that this proposal seeks to regulate, which I think all people living in Budapest, and what is more, agglomeration, are concerned. [[17.00]] The first question that I have raised is that, of course, it is good and right, and we also support that certain procedures can take place more quickly on these issues, but I would like to ask, for example, the question of when the dam will finally be ready in Obuda. Because I see that there are efforts to speed up procedural deadlines, but, you know, fellow Members, it was interesting to hear from you that these two issues, and especially flood protection, are being talked about on the coast of Rome as if this had come up now, following a sudden natural disaster. You know, my fellow Members, I have lived on the coast of Rome for years, my wife has lived on the coast of Rome since she was born, and since I moved there, I can safely say why there is no barrier on the coast of Rome. But my wife told me that ever since she was a little kid, ever since she was smart, it's been pretty much a question and a problem as to why there's no barrier on the coast of Rome. This is simply an unprovoked problem, and I sincerely hope that by talking about it here, it does mean a government intent to actually build a dam on the coast of Rome. One is skeptical of this issue because for a very long time István Tarlós was the III. mayor of the district, he is the mayor now, but there is no progress in this matter; at least there is progress that can be seen for the inhabitants of the district, for the inhabitants of the Roman coast, certainly there is no progress. We also know that two years ago - I think about two years ago, if I remember correctly - there was a huge flood that threatened both Budapest and the Roman coast. Then, I can really say that we were there at the scene and assisted through the processes, only because of the heroin work of professional staff and volunteers that there was no problem there, greater trouble, and not spilled out of the Danube. I would also add that all the properties built in the price area, the value of which I do not know or wish to estimate, have all been flooded. They all got underwater, and they had to get people out of there. The question is, of course, whether it was right at the time, especially in the district under the control of the mayor of István Tarlós, that he was allowed to build such buildings. But one thing is certain, these buildings are standing there today, forming a serious national wealth, and there are very, very many people living there. So taking this into account, I think it is necessary to solve flood protection. But I can also say that, at the time when this flood occurred two years ago, not only were these real estates in danger, but all the properties that were already built in a very regular manner and not in the price area until Szentendrei út. It was not pleasant to live when you walked out, say, near Buffalo Road, and you saw that the dam could only hold up the enormous mass of water, and that there was a boat about two to 2.5 meters above its head on Nanási Road. Of course, I must say that this bill is necessary and, mutatis mutandis, to be supported. That's what we're gonna do. I just want to know, I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State and the authors, when we can finally expect results, tangible results on the coast of Rome, when the inhabitants of Rome can be sure that their security of property and their life and physical integrity will be safe, let us say, in the event of a more serious, repeated flood. This is one of the things I would like to highlight. The other, even on the same issue, is that I was pleased to hear that spatial planning is also being planned at this stage. It's about time. Because, fellow Members, when older guests come to us and we walk down to the beach with them, they marvel at it and they say, "Oh, well, that's just like thirty years ago." The Secretary of State is smiling, and so am I. Of course, this one has a nostalgia. But I think this is not a sustainable situation, because this is one of the most beautiful and wonderful parts of Budapest, where you can really walk along the Danube, where not only the Roman coasts enjoy and enjoy the advantages and talents of the place, but also the many citizens of Budapest who visit the Roman coast by boat, car or public transport from different districts, to say they eat a heck or even feel good about themselves or row there on the Danube. This value, I think, needs to be cared for and developed. It is untenable that there are 30 - year - old conditions there. It is untenable that if you go down to the Roman beach, then you will not get away with it without washing your hair thoroughly at home and washing all the clothes on it, because it will be so dirty and dirty. I know this may be a slightly more unusual topic in a parliamentary debate, but I think that if we are talking about developments in the capital, namely the protection of floods on the Roman coast, then indeed here in the development of the built environment, let us say that tourism aspects are worth highlighting and taking into account in the parliamentary debate. So all I can say is that we support it to the farthest extent, both here and in municipal meetings, to make it the III. flood protection in the district, because it's probably the last one there. In this respect, I would argue what my fellow Member Tamás László said that there was no unified will for flood protection and it concerns several districts. This concerns only one district we're talking about right now. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. Circumference, And the III. In the district, residents have always had a united will to protect the flood. There may have been a debate at one point, and the question of environmental organisations is how flood protection can be resolved in such a way that, in parallel, we do not cause irreparable, irreparable environmental damage. But in the need to implement flood protection on the coast of Rome, it has always been a united will, at least since I have lived there, and what my relatives and neighbors who have lived there for decades have told me, I dare say this. On the other subject, which I would like to highlight, I can also say that it is time for metro section 3 to be renovated. Indeed, as my fellow Members have said, Metro 3 is one of the most important public transport routes for Budapest, and one thing I hear is a little bit, let me say that, as a member of Parliament, I am bitter that the extension of the southern direction was rejected by the government to Metro 3. His development towards the north seems to be at least realizing. But I'd be interested to find out why the subway extension was rejected. I would also like to know when and for how much the northern extension can start, which, of course, we can support. I mean, if I'm right, that's how they wanted to solve it at the time, there was a plan like this, connecting the airport to the city centre, what about this project, what the residents of Budapest could expect. The other thing I mention as a criticism, although I know you always say that, of course, under the Demszky's, it could have been done to renovate metro 3, but I can tell you that during your period, during the Mayorship of István Tarlós and under your administration, metro line 3 became effectively life-threatening. I was genuinely surprised to see, as a resident in Budapest, the reason why this investment had not been started before and why it had been delayed. [[17.10]] I know it costs a lot of money, I know it's not easy to solve, but I would also like to highlight what you have done now, that this is probably the most important public transport route in Budapest, so this development probably shouldn't have kept you waiting. To sum up, I have to say that there are two improvements, two projects that we consider to be natural, that we support, and what is more, that we are pressing for its completion as soon as possible. We would like to say once again that we have an answer about when the Roman-coastal residents might be able to be safe in connection with flood protection, and when can the renovation and expansion of Metro 3 be completed, and I would like to repeat my question once again as to why the southern extension was rejected, and how the airport and downtown connections would be resolved by the capital and the government. Of course, and I stress this, as I did at the beginning, now that the facilitations and accelerations needed to carry out these projects will be supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you very much. Dr. Bertalan Toth applauds.]]
u2015-06-17-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-17-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, If the bill before us was about whether the House would support the renovation of Metro 3 and the extension of Metro 3, then we would say yes absolutely naturally and clearly and everyone would support it. If the proposal were to support the construction of the mobile dam on the coast of Rome, then there would be a debate here in the House, I am sure. For my part, let me relate to those who spoke before me in the debate, and let me respond to the fact that our fellow Member Tamás László said that the dam could not be built because there has not been a single will in the last 20-x years, and that resources have been fragmented. In one respect, there was a unified will, and there was no fragmentation of resources, namely that the direct Danube-coastal lane, which was grouped into Üh, a resort zone and within it, and where there have always been boathouses, could be very much incorporated, yes, during the current mayor's mayor's mayor at that time. We're calling them a board resort right now, but in fact, these are huge condominiums. Those who acquired property there at the time, a certain Daniel Jeline, who was involved in the development of the whole band, did so, knowing that it was a flooded area, here it is regularly flooded by the Danube, and that is why people did not build there in the past, and that is why the installation started only from the Nanási road, and that is why there is a prime line of defense in this section. So in this regard, exactly where to build this particular dam, what to protect the dam, I think there is a serious debate between us, because I think that whoever knew what to build and where to build, and now wants their property with public money, because it's not national property, I'm sorry... National property is defined as state or municipal property, but Dániel Jeline's property is not national property, or I do not know which nation, but it is certainly not Hungarian national property. These all serve as private interests, and in a sense the design of the dam, the construction of the dam that we are talking about, would also use private interests. But if it were on Nanási Road, this development would be ruined, then it would be different. I would add that there are some pretty serious nature conservation issues here because we're saying that this coast looked like this 30 years ago. Yeah. Well, even the trees that were there were 30 years younger. But if this Roman mobile dam is built, there will be no trees there, we can guarantee that there will be a significant charge, a significant straightening of the coast, and, please, respectfully, the trees will not be able to withstand if we cement them, say, up to this height of 2 meters. That's for sure, because there's no other way out of math, and there's gonna be a lot of wood to cut down. Now, if that is what the bill is about, then we would have something to discuss, but it is not about that, but about what we have talked about more than once in this House, that you will highlight certain places and locations from the territory of Hungary from the general regulatory environment and put extra rules and places there. Now, in the case of the Roman coast, or, say, metro 3, but let's think earlier about the Istvánfield, the Normafa case, or, I don't know, I've written down a lot of things, even in the case of City Park. In the case of the Normafa, it has been clearly proven that if there is a place where personalised legislation is in place. It turns out that an offshore company has an interest in an area that will be acquired and bought under this law, and we already know that it will be well worth it for that offshore company to acquire its property. So you're creating exceptional procedures, exceptional situations that are beyond and beyond all the laws we've ever had. They shall be reduced to 15 days, 8 days, 5 days, and if these licences are not issued and sealed by then, they shall be deemed to be granted. The same is the case for utility operators, where only 5 days are left, if they are not issued in 5 days, they shall be deemed to be granted. With all due respect, I have a suggestion. Why are we writing a deadline? I don't need a permit. You can do it without permission, you just need law. Or I have another idea: you always reduce the territorial scope of the law or narrow it down to a point, a block or a few local numbers, if any. But that's so hard, because there's always more and more laws to be put in front of this House. I am not a lawyer, but I am a simple architect, but I understand that according to the original legislation, the territorial scope of the laws is common throughout Hungary. From this you have created a new genre, a genre of one block laws. But let's put that aside and say that there is personalized legislation and that there is only personal scope for certain laws. It's worth it to Entrepreneur X, so we're building it for him, it's in the interest of the Y contractor, so we're making a law for him. Now, please allow me to read a quote, and I apologize in advance, and I do not wish to offend the dignity of this House, perhaps I have so many excuses that the person from whom I am going to quote is a man currently in ministerial position. The minister is talking about why he didn't know why a law had to be made, and he looked into it, and then he said, "The skin burned off my face, the ground opened under my feet, that we were able to do such an impertinent thing. Exactly at this level of legislation, exciting things happen, if any, to which everyone is already hitting, because the minister never reads it when he signs it. Make no mistake, it's not his level. This is also part of the result of this haste - before he talked about how incomprehensible the laws are - but there is also intention. So there are very serious intentions behind the words. This was recently said by Minister Lázár, his little speech in the autumn. That is why I say that if the Minister himself confesses and tells you that you give in to certain lobby interests and lobby groups, then it may be worth saying that this law has been dictated to us by X or Y, so we are submitting his law, and this law is tailored to it, it will satisfy his needs. And how much that is so, there is a part of this law that no one, the authors, has ever said a word about, and I ask you to listen to me now, because this is also extremely interesting, and these paragraphs are designed to satisfy certain individual investor intentions. This applies to this part of the Danube. [[He's showing me a document.]] In the past, it was quite strange that Étv was mentioned that it was defined on the banks of the Danube, in other words, that the properties bordering directly with the Danube bank and Margaret Island could be subject to separate construction legislation. So there is not the two-tier regulation, or there will be a two-tier regulation on the Danube bank, which is everywhere else in Budapest's capital, but there will be a separate regulation there. Now, that's what you're expanding very significantly. [[17.20]] I would add that this particular Annex 1, which you added to the law, is an invaluable map, I will tell you honestly, because it is extremely difficult to understand, and while, let us say, the original text of the law is quite clear that it is directly bordering with the Danube coast, so you can tell exactly what location numbers the legislator might have thought of, so let there be a man on his feet who can find out who the investors who benefit from it are. Now, I'm going to help you now, just to help you with the work of lawmaking, I'd like to read it and tell you. Let's start here, in the northern Danube section, that the areas you've marked here are owned by. Right up here in North Pest, this project called 360 degrees Budapest, which is owned by Ofer Hava, is owned by companies of his interest; immediately below it we can see the Foka Bay owned and developed by his dear friend Ehud Amir, which is also part of this development. If we go a little further down, we'll go to the other side of the Danube, which you also drew, now that's Juli Ofer's, the Lord's late Juli Ofer, who was persecuted in his country, Israel, on suspicion of money laundering. But he wasn't finally charged because he died sooner, and he was afraid that he was investing the money he had made with money laundering here in Hungary, such as buying the Dream Island or the Shipyard Island, and there he wanted to carry out the Dream Island project. One of his dear colleagues, Mordechai Zisser, was also interested in Dream Island, as was Jacob Engel. But let's move on, because here are a few more names and a few properties that are also of private interest, since they are privately owned. For example, Noah Milton Steinberg owns, I show [[He's showing me the paper.]] These are the areas at the northern tip of the island of Csepel, only in this area there are installation plans suitable for 15,000 people. As it happens, I, say, graduated as a major architect at the University of Arts, received my second degree in 2009, and these plans were presented there. Let me add: in the areas developed by Ofer Hava, 360 degrees in Budapest, it is already a hundred thousand years old, so it is so intensively installed on the Danube bank in Budapest, where 100,000 people could be placed. Then let's move on. I mentioned Noah Milton Steinberg, one of his dear colleagues, Gordon Bajnai - no smaller personality - through Wallis Realty, but Noah Milton Steinberg owns this lower area here on the Danube side of Buda. He owns the Market Realty, which we refer to as, or their advertising slogan is that we like to build, " says Market. Yeah, well, most of the time in the West Bank, they build illegal Israeli settlements, but they invest here in Hungary, too, and I'm telling you, these areas, which you also involve in this interest, belong to their real estate. And so on, I could put this line to you for a very long time, but given that my time is up, let me briefly sum it up. This is about Gábor Demszky, who has been left to run, even though he should have been in prison long ago, he was the one who started the so-called development project series Beaching, which is exactly what it is about: the re-reaming, upgrading and making property on the Danube bank into a foreign interest. It serves a purely private interest, and, as I said, unfortunately, we have to say that these are real estate mobsters. We certainly know that this is not pure money, and it is purely political influence. And this is the Gábor Demszky who, by the way, thanks to Budapest's debauchery and egression, so Fidesz is playing from his sheet music now, they are implementing his ideas. To make it very simple: those building procedures and, for the time being, we are just saying that the settlement arrangements will be simplified, I am quite sure that, in order to be here, the Community interests which, where appropriate, the local residents would be able to represent through local authorities in the districts, do not interfere with the regulation. Therefore, you are forming a law for what John Lazarus confessed, so there are very serious intentions behind the words. The only question is whose interest Fidesz really serves. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-190	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-17-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have to start by saying that this draft law cannot be supported by the LMP, because we believe that Parliament should not be in the interests of investors, but primarily in the interests of the Hungarian people and the constitutional rights to a healthy environment. However, we are well aware that acceleration and simplification in Fidesz's dictionary are, in fact, a reduction in public and social control, the lifting of legal guarantees and the introduction of specific rules favourable to private capital. There are a number of legislation where this has already been proven. Such was the recently adopted Városliget Act, the Normafa Act, the Tide Act, under which the decades-old platan and poplar trees of the high tide beach are now being destroyed, and obviously the legislation we are discussing will be included in this line. We have found that the majority of governments are always reaching out to regulatory practice - rather liberalisation practice in essence - when they want to force society to do something that people do not necessarily want, and the legislation in force would not allow. And indeed, people do not want a ski resort on the Normafa, in the area of the Park of City Park, and they do not want a mobile barrier to the Danube panorama, which ruins the last natural part of Budapest's Danube coast. After 40 years of break in Rome, the Danube has been booming again. The bakers have returned because the EU's development has made water cleaner and the delicate biological balance has been restored. However, this is clearly only important for the population, the people in the area and the holidaymakers, and Fidesz is not interested in this at all. Environmental aspects have not been considered at all when choosing possible flood protection solutions. Those who do not believe, read the public procurement notice, have only decided on the basis of price, professional concept and execution time what investment can be made in a partly Natura 2000 valuable nature conservation area. The opinion of the ad hoc Committee on the coast of Rome of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has already established the following. The EU Water Framework Directive, which is binding on our country, sets clear limits and conditions for the ecological status of a river and its coast and for increasing regulation. The Water Framework Directive states that a technical intervention that destroys the ecological status of a river can only be accepted in justified cases and in the event of significant social benefits, stressing that if there are technical alternatives for the essential intervention, there must be a better consideration of those ecological aspects. So much so that after the construction of the mobile dam, the road of Nanási must be maintained. The government is now preparing to provide an easier way for an intervention that destroys the environment, but does not increase the flood safety of the capital. On the other hand, it protects some privately owned buildings, built on the price area without permission, with public money and significant damage to nature. The bill in question constitutes a priority investment for which special building and licensing rules are laid down, including the Roman-coastal mobile barrier, and the reconstruction of Metro 3 are declared. [[17 .30]] The deadline for official procedures is reduced to 15 days and the administrative procedures to 5 days. It is not possible to carry out a fair authorisation procedure in that time, which means that there will be pretend procedures with the results required by the policy. In the proceedings, no architectural, technical and design opinions shall be obtained. There is no need to carry out a municipal opinion procedure. There is no place in the townscape notification procedure. So any urban and landscape-destructive structure can be built, and no professional forum will be able to object to it. In the so-called authorisation procedures laid down by law, archaeological values do not matter either, as the text of the law states:. If pre-emptive exploration is required during the flood protection project, exploration can only prevent the completion of the flood protection investment to the extent strictly necessary, in particular the part not covered by the exploration. What can we expect, and why does the government want to simplify the authorisation? It is made clear by previous developments in tree cuttings. Among other things, the investment plan would fall victim to a floodplain forest and a large number of waterfront trees, but the timber eradication plans are set out in Annex II. the district as the first instance authorising authority has already been rejected. After the adoption of the law, the authorities concerned may have less say, less time, less licenses in the interest of the environment and the general public, if they are to oppose the political or investor's will. As I mentioned in the introduction, that the majority of governments use a means of reducing administrative and social control if they want to force people to do something that they do not want and our laws do not allow, of course it is also true for metro 3. The Budapesters certainly don't want the ebbed Russian subway cars to be renovated with the amount of money that, if we take into account the life expectancy, new metro trains could be purchased, which would save, consume less and guarantee greater safety. However, the Orbán government has promised this investment to the Russians in a package with the Paks expansion and gas storage, so much so that now the Estonian tender offering cheaper prices must also be put out of the business. The bill further reduces the transparency of the procurements related to the project with the bill, ultimately giving the Russian suppliers and Hungarian business partners another opportunity to dispose of public money. Of course, the LMP will neither seek nor assist. We do not believe that laws are meant to guarantee extra profit for certain policy-related business circles. And if Fidesz believes that the improvements it envisages cannot be implemented in the existing legislative environment under the substantive control of the authorities, then it is not certain that the legislation is flawed. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-192	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The next speaker was the first independent Member to come forward. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honestly, I read it with mixed emotions, and we read this presentation. The reason for this is that you always feel a little uncomfortable when you talk about granting an exceptional procedure. Of course, it is always worth considering why we want to establish exceptional rules in some technical procedure or in any other procedure. If we look at these two projects in this proposal, we can say that we can accept this in the case of Metro 3. One of the authors said this, too, and Mr Secretary of State said that several people here mentioned it earlier; everyone knew that Metro 3 was in pretty bad shape. It is not life-threatening, but the employees of the BKV are really struggling heroically to ensure everyday operation under the right conditions. Which is why we organized a press-public subway tour a year ago to move this forward a little bit. Then it was a little bit wrong for us personally, too, that István Tarlós accused me of wanting to create hysteria, while we were about to demonstrate the need for renovation, and this is not life-threatening, because really, by putting a lot of energy into it, the BKV workers will make it work. We just wanted to get this case out of the Lazarus-Tarlos debate, because if everyone remembers, then there was a little conflict between it and EU funds, or it was financed by the capital. Then, after all, it seems that by now we have come to the point that the acquisition or renewal of vehicles with a loan and a state guarantee will ultimately be a capital investment, and, if I understand correctly, the tunnel renovation itself will probably come from EU funds or, hopefully, partly from EU sources, as it is on the project list. So, overall, this part is acceptable to us after all, and we say that, although we do not like such exceptional rules, but since it really is a matter of urgency, go ahead, we support it. And we strongly hope that the fears that we have in us and in the press could be read in the last few days, but you have obviously been informed of this earlier, as we have heard from the LMP lead speaker here, that it is as if they are trying to trick the winners of the proposals by proclaiming who they want to bring out, that this is just fear, and we are confident that this will be absolutely fine, and that they will choose the cheapest and best solution possible. Obviously, we would have preferred to have bought new trains by now, because it wouldn't have been so much more expensive, but it seems to have been decided. As for the other case, we already have bigger problems there. I think Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs has very well summarized the part of the problem about the problem of the versus mobile dam of Nanási Road. The reason why one has a bad feeling about this proposal is because it is as if a case that has not been fully discussed and has come to a standstill is intended to be pushed in the same direction as this exceptional procedure. I do not want to take the debate very much in this direction, but you can still see from Csepel that problems still arise from the failure to fully convince local residents or environmental organisations that this mobile barrier is the ideal solution. Here partly nature conservation and partly technical issues arise continuously, and especially since the significant flood level is likely to have to build on a slightly longer one, these technical problems obviously arise even more intensively with the drifts and trees and all kinds of other things. So there was this technical problem, and the other one was an environmental problem, and there was also the question of trees and the issue of filling and shore-setting. Obviously, I am not going to take a position on this and it is not my job, and I think that I should decide that, and probably not even the parliament, but that is probably something that the locals in cooperation with the Metropolitan Assembly, the local government and the administrative authorities will have to do. I don't think we've been able to put this to rest. That is why this whole issue - and this is not just for the authors and the current government alone - has been a question for decades. It is very surprising that we have still been on the road for long and long decades that we have not been able to agree on how this flood relief should happen in a way that is appropriate for everyone. That is why it is particularly bad for a person to want to speed this up with such exceptional procedural rules, because at first it would probably have to be discussed thoroughly, so there would have been plenty of time for previous governments to deal with it. [[17.40]] What is very strange to us - also referred to by the LMP lead speaker Erzsébet Schmuck - is the strangest part of this proposal in connection with the flood protection investment in the stellar cove. There is a strange feeling in man because not so long ago, perhaps a few days ago, we spoke again about the fact that archaeological explorations are also being accelerated in the context of motorway constructions. Archaeologists - how should I put this delicately? - they felt very badly about trying to get them out of the freeway investments in a way. This proposal also has such a hearing. It may not be ideal in terms of heritage conservation if archaeological exploration is, in practical terms, withdrawn from this investment, since it is formulated as good, good, it is possible to explore the old levels, find the various building remains and other objects, but it does not interfere with the investment. Well, obviously you'll be disturbed, ergo, there won't be much archaeological exploration. We are in a serious dilemma about this case, because in connection with the renovation of Metro 3 - as I mentioned above - we have absolutely no objections, but the flood protection investment linked to the stellar flushing raises serious doubts in us, and it may not be the ideal solution to speed it up in this way, along with such rules, and we are trying to resolve this with this not being fully discussed. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-17-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr György Szilágyi, from the Jobbik Group, will be followed by a regular speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We're in as much a dilemma as Szabolcs Szabó told us. We know that there have been very big problems with metro 3 for a long time, and it is indeed time for the government to try to move on this issue; however, as my colleague Mrs Hegedűs said, we have strong reservations about the dam, what will happen there. Allow me to do one thing, and I would therefore only like to deal with metro 3 very briefly, let me make a comment. The law states that it is about speeding up and simplifying certain capital-developed investments. Here's the emphasis on acceleration. Allow me to go back in time for metro three. In 2011, four years ago, István Tarlós and the Mayor's Office put more than a thousand pages of study and material on Viktor Orbán's table. In 2011, in this more than a thousand pages of material, the government was informed that Metro 3 - and here we no longer agree with Szabó Szabolcs - is life-threatening. There's 100,000 people on subway three a day. 100,000 people! [[Dr. Vas Imre: 500,000.]] Okay, well, if it's 500,000, then there's even more trouble, but let's just have 100,000 people, Imre Vas, my fellow Member. You've been playing with these people for four years, playing with their lives. And that it is true - and do not say that I speak only in the air - that when a subway set fire, there is a danger of life. It's been a while since metro line 3 caught fire. The fact that Metro 3 was able to operate at all during these four years is not due to the government, but to the fact that the Municipality of Budapest, in addition to its powers, has done the fire-fighting renovations on line 3, which, thanks to fire-fighting, remained operational at some level on line 3. I understand that you are now beginning to speed up, but there is only one explanation for this: since 2011, you have managed to read this thousand pages until now, so you have just come to the end. A thousand pages were read in four years, and when they came to the end of this thousand pages, they realized that, wow, there really is a very big problem here, so let's start doing something fast and speed it up. So my problem is not that you have just introduced this law, and I really want to solve the problem of Metro 3 at some level, but my problem is that it was brought in now, even though it was clear in 2011, because the study on the Prime Minister's table showed exactly the situation of Metro 3. I think this is outrageous, it really means that, taking into account various other interests, you have always postponed this decision, always putting an accident-free and life-free plant that is very important for Budapesters, which is used by a lot of people every day, and which could have been a disaster that could have happened at any time before - good, of course not in Hungary, but in other countries - governments would have failed. But it doesn't matter that governments failed, it's that lives have been threatened for four years. Well, I'm glad they finally realized, and after four years, they're gonna start taking metro 3 seriously. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State János Fónagy asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-17-197	Thank you very much. How much time do I have, Mr. President?
u2015-06-17-198	Unlimited. Fifteen minutes.
u2015-06-17-199	Thank you. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow the former Minister of Transport and Water to speak out in response, giving priority to professional questions. Other overhearings - knowing the gust of some of my fellow Members who are sitting across from me - I cannot hear them now, and it is easier, then, I suppose, to stay on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, If you'll excuse me, I'd like to get to the specifics. Firstly, I would like to thank all three opposition parties for their possible partial position on the aid, recognising the importance and importance of the matter. Going backwards, I say to my fellow Member Szilágyi: it was for a financial reason, because the 2007-2014 EU cycle took metro 4 and the country was able to make such a great development in a cycle, and consequently the next EU development cycle had to wait. Here, I would like, of course, to give only approximate amounts for a number of comments, since we do not have any offers. The current section of Metro 3 - neither one nor the other - is moving somewhere between 140 and 150 billion, so the new cycle had to be waited. The charge is around 10-13 billion, so both are significant amounts. My fellow Member asked me about the completion period currently scheduled. I would like to finish the charge in 12-14 months, say, from the beginning of autumn or spring, but definitely during the cycle. I would also like to say to my fellow Members, who are rightly concerned about the environment, that this comes out together with the necessary environmental reconstructions by about 2018 and thus by the end of the term. On the other hand, the deadline for completing the metro is the end of the municipal cycle, i.e. spring 2019, counting in advance. It is indeed true that both of the great work, and I think there has been agreement on this, has been partly controversial and partly drawn for decades. The state of Metro 3 was known, the previous decision was - and it goes back to 2004, 2005 when the decision was made in Metro 4 - that a cycle was a great development. The capital, with any kind of flag-flagging government behind its back, can actually make a big development in a cycle. [[17.50]] If you'll excuse me, I'll start with the Romans. I myself was a child and grew up on the Danube, so I am emotionally biased, and I know the debates that have shared Budapest III for the past two decades. in the district of the Roman beach, the circle of residents and users. Here, I would very much like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, in today's assessment of the Roman coast, we should not take forward the nostalgia of the '30s and '40s, then the purpose of the Roman coast was different. The Roman coast was the resort of the middle class of Pest, who did not buy a villa in Siófok, Balatonfüred or Tihany, in fact the middle class of Pest was a place for a very popular summer with almost Mediterranean atmosphere, from early spring to late autumn. That's changed. The Roman coast was undercover, otherwise, under the circumstances, as mentioned here, because everyone knew where the embankment was, and how to build it, and how to issue a building permit and why, today there is a fact situation to be dealt with. It has not been said, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that one of the country's largest housing sites, with its tens of thousands of inhabitants and its total environmental burden, has been built behind the coast of Rome and Pentecost. So that's the only reason we can't compare the Romani to the idyllic image in our memories. I would like to confirm my colleague at the LMP when she spoke about the environment; in the mid-'50s and late '50s, when we were thirsty at the Romanesque, we could drink from the Danube, she had such quality and water. Unfortunately, today it is not, although there is no doubt, that its situation has improved significantly over the past ten to twelve years. Today, a matter of fact, a built-in area where direct security of persons and property is in greater danger every year, as the Danube's highest water level rises. The climate change we've always talked about in time for the future is here, it's making you feel the effect. Hungary's waters, including the Danube, Hungary's rivers, come from outside the border, and the water stored in the mountains in snow comes explosively as a result of climate change, and this means that the former water damage control techniques and water management systems do not work. Here among the walls of the House, it has been said many times over the past 20-25 years that the increase in charges is not possible indefinitely, so other methods must be chosen, but in this respect the protection of the Roman coast and Northern Buda is not even available at this basic level. In this you are right, Mrs President, these are not new things, these are the technical, social and residential debates that have been going on for 10-15 years, but there was a unanimous opinion that the solution is not the filling on the side of the road, so the line of defence must be taken out to the water. In this, the National Water Directorate-General, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, agreed, partly counting the situation of integration, partly in order to enable the effectiveness of flood protection and its safety for 50 to 100 years, this should be carried out there. It's not a pleasure anyway. It's really not a pleasure, because it's a big open Danube bank. In order to preserve this, the matter of the mobile dam came up. Allow me to share with you my own experience that many years ago in Szentendre it was the same dispute that the charge should be broken down and a mobile barrier made. I must say that I was one of those who opposed the mobile dam; I did not like it; I saw a few hundred meters of mobile charges embedded in the cliff in the Rhine valley; that was another subsoil, a completely different affair. It's been built. And I gotta tell you, last year's water was great. So make no mistake, it is very risky to support or sceptically treat a water damage control method one way or another, but I have to say that the Szentendre mobile dam immediately after its construction received a peak water compared to the previous ones, because the highest measured water level was... - not last year, sorry, two years ago when it was large water - and it was very good for you. So from this point of view, I think that this is already a tried method in Hungary. I believe my fellow Member, Szabolcs Szabó, mentioned the polarity of the mobile barrier. Map. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a small map. If you look at the original large chart section of this land register, which is available to the authors, the land sections can, of course, be well identified. Yes, there was a professional polarity among the authors in this regard, because, if I remember correctly, the comment on the immediate waterfront was debatable because of the clarity of the norm, because who sees what a waterfront is, because sometimes there is a significant movement of the immediate waterfront, so they decided - we also asked - that the map would be reduced to such a multiplied size, which would otherwise be useful in a normal map gauge size. With this malleable version, your depressing opinion is unfortunately well established, because it is one of these, but it is a reproduction, and it is obvious that the big one must be used during the work, and the local figures can be identified. I understand..., I do not understand, but as a representative of the government, I accept that the political and questionable presentation of opposition parties is understandable, but please, Congresswoman, do not look at this proposal with such an eye. Yeah, there are waterfront owners, some former owners, some not. I would just like to mention that the island of Shipyard has been completely blocked by the fact that, at the part of the Foka Bay, the part of its installation, there are now major public constructions in terms of the World Water Championship. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: The other story.]] So I say that, in this respect, there is no such underlying background; in this draft law that we have just discussed, it is indeed the swift conclusion of a matter that has been going on for many years, and in the other, an urgent, immediate intervention due to a technical condition, otherwise, I must say, it was an intervention that we also urged. We don't use the extra rules for that. I very much hope, I do not hope, very much, that in a few years' time, the congresswoman will be proud of the development of the City Park that has an impact on the whole city, or even of the improvements that allow the civilised use of Normafa. I said money, I said execution dates. Madam Congresswoman, our fellow Member with the LMP is not present, but let me say that we also take into account the recultivation in charging construction. It is obvious that such a nature of the Roman coast will be followed by the cutting of as little wood as possible, the replacement of the cut-ups, whose task it will be to carry it out. [[18.00]] So thank you again for your full or partial support. Please, if you have any comments on this proposal that you think can be improved by amending it, I believe that the authors are ready to accept it. With all this, repeating my request, please support the draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Two of them are waiting to speak again. First I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-17-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I promise I won't take advantage of it. I just want a few answers to Mr. Secretary of State's sentences. At the first, I suppose, it was a slip of the tongue, but I would like to say to the Secretary of State, he told me not to have the nostalgic memories of the congresswoman from the 1930s and '40s, so his parents didn't even live back then, in the '30s and '40s... [[Dr. János Fónagy: Me, me! It's mine!]] Oh, I see, what we meant was, Congresswoman, I'm telling you, no, not hers. [[Dr. János Fónagy: No.]] The other is that you said, Mr Secretary, that there may have been a hearing in the voice of the congresswoman. Secretary of State, there was no interrogation. If the listed owners had been called Gábor Tóth or Péter Kiss, we would have listed them, or even if they had been called Lőrinc Mészáros or Lajos Simicska, we would have listed them. It's not our fault that when we looked at the property records, we found these owners. There's no interrogation here, so we only listed the names of what's going on. [[Dr. János Fónagy: What happens by chance.]] What was, however, a little hearing through the Secretary of State's speech was when he said that it was in question when he had given permission on the coast of Rome and why. The transfiguration is due to the fact that we know who is now the greatest leader in building a mobile barrier on the coast of Rome, and we also know who used to be the mayor of Óbuda, who might have issued these permits. [[Dr. János Fónagy: They were built in the 1950s... the president's bell rings. Dr. János Fónagy: Sorry!]] The other is that he said the island of Shipyard. In a completely different law, on the island of Shipyard, we usually settle things, things related to the water world, so this law affects much larger areas and more comprehensive areas at the moment. On the other hand, I absolutely disagree with one thing, Mr. Secretary. And I understand, and he told me that it's 140-150 billion forints about the investment of subway 3 and the like. And I understand that this is an incredibly large sum. But that when there are life - threatening conditions in something, when we risk the lives of people to function, we should wait for EU cycles - that cannot be agreed with. So, yes, for the government, it doesn't matter when the new European Union cycle began, in my opinion, when the government came to an understanding of the situation that unfortunately developed at Metro 3 - and I stress for the truth, this is not your fault, so it wasn't the year that Metro 3 got into a state, but many years, decades, when they didn't spend a penny on it, when they didn't have any maintenance tasks, let alone there were no renovation tasks, and this was the case - when a government meets and confronts it, it doesn't matter who's fault, but in a life-threatening state, it doesn't work safely, let't say, in case a subway line, it doesn't matter how much money it costs, then the government has to act immediately. It is then that although the government has decided on various developments, the government has decided on various constructions - and I do not want to give examples now, I do not want to go into saying, as a sports politician, what is more important than, say, the construction of a stadium or the normal operation of the metro 3 - then it is possible to regroup, it is not possible to regroup, to transfer money to the most burning things, to the safety of operations, and to make the most of the risk of life. So there's always a place to consider, and we can't agree to say that for four years we can look at whether there will be something or not, we pray because that's when the EU cycle begins. Of course, this is important, but I do not want to go into the debate yesterday on another law on the European Union, which would also not have belonged to it, and it has come to light how good this kind of operation of the Union is for us, which is at the moment, what we can use development money for, for example, how free Hungary has to set priorities or take into account what is developing. And this is how it would have been important for us to be in danger of life; indeed, it would have been very important for us that, even if the Union had prescribed that money could be used at a subway line, it would have been more important to use the money at Metro Line 3 than at other subway lines. These are also requirements again, and once again, situations in which we say that we should act against the EU, and yes, we should sit down and discuss whether these rules are appropriate to us or not. After all, let us decide what we want to use development money for, at least where appropriate, new spaces, or, say, economic recovery programmes, or, say, investments that can save people's lives. So we do not agree with that, but regardless, I say that our policy makers and the group will decide their position on how we will vote in the vote. We have said that we have doubts about certain things, but indeed, we definitely want to support metro 3 and we will also support it in order for other conditions to prevail there. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-17-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Bárándy has also applied for a repeated speech from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for participating in and responding to the debate. I didn't get an answer to two of my questions, which I did, but I didn't get the two plans to connect downtown to the airport, if they didn't want to extend metro line 3 in the south direction, and why they put down metro line 3 in the south direction. That is not why I asked for the floor - and then, Mr State Secretary, if you will do so in your closing, I thank you - but in relation to flood protection. Ladies and gentlemen, What has been said about the environment is, of course, arguments to be considered, but I think that the arguments that have been considered are that the people living in the area would like to keep their loved ones and their wealth safe. Even those who live in the floodplain, but I would like to emphasise once again that those who do not live in the floodplain are the thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of people who built their house or bought their apartment a long time ago outside the floodplain. Because flood protection should not be a misunderstanding, not only is it not solved in the floodplain, but it is not solved throughout the Roman coast and the star mountain area. Until Szentendrei út, once again, if the position that was two years ago had not happened, the Danube would have flooded the residential area; as it is, the whole, not only the floodplain, but the rest. For decades, the district has not been able to obtain an appropriate solution, we cannot build a dam; they cannot keep their values safe and they have no personal security because they cannot build a dam because of various, otherwise typically administrative obstacles, which not only conservation organizations and associations, but others are also rolling in the way of building the dam. Environmental protection, and once again, don't get me wrong, is an important asset for me, but it's also an important asset for the personal safety and security of people who live in that neighborhood. And of course, it could be said - and I would know that easily, since our property is not in the price range personally - that, of course, the haregate and not the mobile barrier should be built. [[18.10]] Just what the Secretary of State has said, I think it is also worth considering. Namely, the fact that there are a lot of families living in the price range that shouldn't have been built otherwise. I'll sign this and agree with it. In fact, I would also agree that those responsible for this should be held accountable. These are investments of such scale and scale, and if they were irregular, I can say that even the statute of limitations can not be an obstacle to my opinion. Only, you know, the problem today is that these entrepreneurs are not the ones who built them, because they sold these properties a long time ago, but those families who might not have been properly informed by these companies that the property is otherwise located in a price range. These properties are indeed privately owned today, but not in the hands of large entrepreneurs, but in the hands and possession of families. In other words, if we implement this flood protection, we protect these families and we do not put in a more favourable position the entrepreneurs who built it, because they, I say again, have already given up on the property a long time ago. Who or why authorized this is a separate question. Indeed, this raises personal questions. I'm also saying that it might be justified to look a little further into this and dig deep into the problem. The other thing I wanted to say is that the justification for this bill, apart from subway 3, is subway III. It's about the flood safety of the stellar flushing in the district. It's about creating it. If this is different, we are very happy to support an amendment that narrows it down. I also believe that there is usually room for normal procedures in relation to flood protection or anything else. Here is a special story on the Roman beach, a special story for the whole of Budapest. So if Jobbik or anyone, an independent Member, submits an amendment that narrows it down to this, we are very happy to support it. We don't want some entrepreneurial circles to benefit from public money either. We would like one, and for this reason we support this proposal: that the inhabitants of the stellar, Roman-coastal will finally be safe after several decades. We have no other purpose. In the same way that Congressman Szilágyi said about the subway, we support both us and you there in order to eliminate life-threatening situations as soon as possible. We have the same goal in the case of the Roman coast. We would like to eliminate the dangerous condition of life and physical integrity, and, by the way, a dangerous state of property security, which has plagued Roman-coastal residents for several decades because there is no adequate protection on the beach. We don't have any other purpose either. I hope so, I sincerely hope, and in this respect I am absolutely, to say the best of intentions towards government efforts, and I trust in the sincerity of the government and of the authors that they want to do the same. That's why we can support it. If we saw any business interests behind this, we would certainly not support this proposal. That is why I say that if there is an amendment that narrows it down to the coast of Rome, we will support it. But I would also like to ask one thing from my fellow Members, my fellow Members, who are obviously with complete good intentions, just as some of the Roman-coastal associations are trying with good intentions to protect the natural environment that is still on the coast of Rome, so that they may also think that the safety of people is a little more important than the safety of the trees. By doing as much as possible to achieve safety through as little environmental destruction as possible, I agree, even if this may make the investment more expensive. I also agree that trees that may need to be cut down from there should be replaced. So I would like to say that part of the environmental damage during the investment is obviously not reversible, but another part is. If, taking these into account, the investment is carried out and I sincerely hope that this will happen, then we can get away with the damage that is not inevitable. By the way, while we are at it, I think it would be worth thinking about the whole Roman coast, because the life span of the trees is also finite, that certain old trees should be replaced. It should be replaced by young trees, precisely so that the whole environment will not be destroyed at the same time, and our offspring will not be able to do anything to protect the natural values. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-17-204	Thank you, Congressman. Mr György Szilágyi is next, but I can only speak for two minutes because he has already had a repeated speech. Here you go.
u2015-06-17-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll try to be quick. Gergely Bárándy raised the dilemmas that really are dilemmas constantly. After all, no one is arguing whether a mobile barrier is needed or not. Anyone who goes down to Szentendre - I took the trouble - and, where appropriate, looks at the mobile barrier, clearly sees that it is needed. I was out in flood control, too, I know how much work flood protection is, it doesn't matter if you put those elements on the mobile dams. Indeed, it is important that Annex III is amended as follows: The lives, safety and wealth of district citizens should be protected. The dilemma was always about where to find the trail of this mobile barrier, that's the question: in the line of the old dam, somewhere, or on the line in front of the floodplain. Here's the real question you're saying is that someone's been building. We can agree that anyone who has built on a floodplain has done so illegally for any reason. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's right!]] Those who bought the apartments just had to be aware that they were on the verge. Or maybe they got a promise that wasn't official enough to buy it, because it's on the verge, but it's gonna be solved, we've already got a promise, but it's kind of a criminal thing to do when they make promises like that. But while you're at it, you're right that we are talking about the lives of families who are building on the floodplain. After all, they knew, because if you look at the catering places on the coast of Rome, they're set up to know that when the price comes, they'll pack up and there's no problem. You can't really see billions of dollars in investment. So there are a lot of aspects that need to be taken into account. This dilemma in man is really whether or not we're putting the mobile barrier in front of the floodfield now is the best. And it's not just where it looks better, or we protect the floodplain, or we don't, but it also has technical specifications that I've dealt with. For example, there are technical opinions that in the old dam, due to the connection of different public utilities, the mobile barrier could not be properly installed. So there are also moral and professional questions, but in connection with the mobile barrier, we really need to resolve the need for normal flood protection in Budapest as well.
u2015-06-17-206	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State János Fónagy asked for the floor. Here you go. [[In the notary seat, Erzsébet Schmuck will be replaced by Dezső Liberty.]]
u2015-06-17-207	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to reflect on two things. Metro 3 was never life-threatening. If it's life-threatening, it'll be stopped or stopped at that moment. There is no operator operating a life-threatening subway. If it was life-threatening, we'd shut it down. The other, before, let me say, the historical rearview takes us away, ladies and gentlemen, that the part of the Roman coast that we have just discussed, that is, between the road and the waves, was the resort area. They built resorts there, and in the last decades, they had to grant permission on the basis of previous regulations. There was no room for manoeuvre for the local government at all; it had to be granted for a resort. Therefore, I suggest that we stick to professional reasoning, the water authority, the Academy of Sciences, everyone, the body involved in water damage control and professionally anointed in Hungary said that protection should be resolved on the waterfront; one way or another, but on the waterfront and not in the current line of charge. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-208	Thank you very much. A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go. [[18.20]]
u2015-06-17-209	Thank you very much. Just because I forgot to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I really appreciate it. I am taking part in many debates, and I see that the Secretary of State, when he brings a subject, really comes in and does not wait for the closing, but can debate with you or exchange ideas about what is there. I agree with you, indeed, most of the opinions have actually confirmed that the old line of defense cannot be enhanced, so I said that there were several professional arguments, one of which was just the utility and everything else. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Yes, yes.]] But the passage is also ulterior, as far as I know, the backslidings and the like. We'd be going into his depth professionally. However, I still disagree with Mr Secretary of State, so the following is: if there is a subway set of flames and smokes, it is a life-threatening condition in my opinion. Luckily, in the last one of these, the subway train just entered Oradea Square. Now I ask you, if you had to stop this train between the clinics and Oradea Square and there was the same smoke, there could have been serious consequences. So so far, I feel that, thanks to God, these subway trains caught fire in fortunate situations, meaning in a lucky situation where there was a quick escape for passengers in there. If that hadn't been done, there would have been a grave tragedy. So I consider this a life-threatening condition. But we hope that we will just polemise on this, because this will not be necessary in the future, because it will be resolved even thanks to this law, so that metro line 3 can be renovated as quickly and as professionally as possible. Thank you very much, and thank you again for taking part in the debate.
u2015-06-17-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Szabolcs Szabó is also next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-06-17-211	Thank you very much. I only asked for the floor to respond briefly to what Gergely Bárándy said. Obviously, no one thinks that, and I don't think any of the speakers said that there's no need to solve the problem of the Roman coast. So, of course, if that's the case, then we have to sort this out. But obviously, on one side, you also need to be aware that these people had to know when they moved there or bought from such investors. I grew up by the river, and you look around, and you sense exactly that... [[Intercom from Fidesz: But it wasn't the Danube. Defiance.]] Well, it wasn't the Danube, but that's how it works next to every river. You can tell by talking to locals, or by looking at the ownership card, you can know exactly whether it's a price range or not. That's why you say that when you want to solve this problem, and it's an old, long-term problem, it looks weird when you want to create exceptional rules for it, because it should have been created a long time ago. So that's just the point of the problem. I'm telling you, what was my personal problem with all this, especially among the exceptional rules, is the quasi-avoidance of archaeological explorations, so that's what's a little weird for me. Thank you.
u2015-06-17-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's indicating his intention to speak.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I am now going to ask Congressman Vas Imre if, as rapporteur, he wishes to close. [[For signal:]] Yes, please, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-213	Yes, thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I thank my fellow Members for their comments, all those who supported the proposal, all those who expressed criticism. First in connection with metro renewal or extension. It wasn't said, the speed of the permits was critical here. But what is most important in terms of railway safety is that it does not shorten the procedural deadlines for the railway authority's licence, which is specifically included in the bill as a reference to the authorisation of a fixed installation. So it shortens a lot of procedures in connection with the renovation of Metro 3 but not the railway authority, because that is the most important thing for the case. I also point out that metro 3 is not life-threatening; there are no doubt problems, no doubt worn out, there is undoubtedly a speed limit in many places. But by the way, thanks to the Metropolitan Municipality and the BKV staff working there, it works well, and by the way, it carries 500,000 people a day. So thank you, too, for those who are really working on this, and we are trying, which is why we have tabled the bill so that this section of the line can be renovated as soon as possible. Our colleague Mrs Loránt Hegedűs here is talking about such business considerations, and I don't know what she was talking about. Well, the truth is, if the business considerations were to be done as soon as possible, then, indeed, the authors were guided by business considerations to act in the interests of the capitals, and obviously we would also like that to happen as soon as possible. In relation to the map: in fact, in our view, it still regulates the same area, but it did not meet the norm requirement. And to say, in a bill to be submitted on sheet A4, a map along the length of Budapest cannot be submitted in sufficient detail on a sheet A4, I think that is an IT problem, and unfortunately we are not here yet. But, no doubt, there is a version of this map from which you can tell the exact location numbers. I regret that, by the way, because the metro renewal concerns the constituency of six Members of Parliament, of which four opposition representatives represent them, and unfortunately, out of the four opposition representatives, there was only my confidant fellow Member; he did not comment on the debate, but clearly supported the metro renovation. There was also a debate in Parliament's benches on how and what to pay attention to in connection with Óbuda dam construction and mobile dam construction. Obviously, it was also necessary for the authors to make it possible to do so as soon as possible and to take into account environmental and archaeological interests, given the circumstances. But it can't be completely solved at the same time. I think the bill is a good compromise. If my fellow Members have an amendment to the bill, we will, of course, consider it and ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill.
u2015-06-17-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that it is possible to submit amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. Next up is the 2007 CVI on state assets. General discussion of the bill on the amendment of law in connection with the increase of state or municipal property until closure. A separate motion by our fellow Members, Attila Tilki and Pál Völner T/5144. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The priority mission of the Fidesz government's policy is to make the most efficient use of the funds available to the country and the Hungarian people. As a result of the reduction of the government debt accumulated irresponsiblely by the past system and by previous governments, and the government's measures to create financial stability, it will be possible to use some of the funds intended to reduce debt so far for purposes directly serving the interests of the country and the Hungarian people, to expand national wealth. It is indisputable that both the reduction of public debt and the protection and enhancement of national assets are among the most important tasks as a token of the country's long-term success. Five years ago, when the second Orbán government was established, it was clear that radical changes were needed in both areas, because without them the country's high level of foreign exposure and economic dependence cannot be reduced. I believe that the two objectives are both significant, that ordering them together would be unnecessary and aimless. The establishment of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, which I will continue to talk about, was based on the first mentioned objective of maintaining and reducing the financing of public debt at a sustainable level. [[18.30]] The amounts made available to the Fund have been used under this objective in recent years, and when it fulfilled its required function at the time of its creation, Parliament decided to terminate the Fund on 31 January 2015. Of course, the remainder of the fund had to be settled at the end of the fund. Accordingly, the 2014 XCIX on the basis of Hungary's 2015 central budget. Law 60. §2 of the Act complements a new section of the 2007 CVI on State Property. Act, under which the tasks related to the management of the funds in the fund became the property of the Hungarian National Asset Management Private Limited Company. The amendment stated that MNV Zrt. has an obligation to use the proceeds of the assets, including dividends, returns and consideration for the sale of assets, to reduce debt during the management of the funds. In view of the fact that the fund has fulfilled its statutory objective, I consider that it is appropriate to extend the use of the revenues associated with the assets transferred to MNV Zrt. In addition to the debt reduction, they should also be channeled into government activities aimed at the expansion of state or municipal assets, to achieve the other priority objectives set out in the bill. I must stress here that when we changed the socialist-liberal government in the previous cycle, we saw that, thanks to the robbery-privatisation of the last 20 years, national wealth has fallen to 10 percent. To date, Hungary is paying the price of an unthinkable and irresponsible privatisation, the cost of not prior disposal of national assets being preceded by a reflection of what and why should remain state-owned or get out of it. For this reason, in 2010 the government decided on a completely new asset policy compared to the previous ones. While in the past the sale of national assets was more typical, after the change of government, the increase of state, municipal or, if you will, of public wealth. This is the end of the period of privatisation, whereas a reasonable and cost-effective use of existing assets and, where possible, an increase in existing assets should be sought. If you look back at the activity of the past few years, it can be seen that it is clearly pointing towards asset restructuring. In my view, this amending proposal is fully in line with the designated asset policy directions and will help to make it more effective. Dear House, The adoption of the bill therefore offers the opportunity to further increase national wealth, which is the main basis for the performance of public and municipal tasks, by reaping the results of the financing of public debt. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament that, in the light of what has been said, T/5144. Please discuss and support bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State János Fónagy asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-17-217	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, the government put wealth policy on a new path. The expansion of national assets has become a key objective of the government. The commitments made in the interest of the community, as well as the tasks related to the optimal functioning of society at government and local level, can be performed at a high level and smoothly only with the right resources. The Government has broken off with the practice, which was previously general and invaluable to the country, which saw the guarantee of the effective operation of the State in the privatisation of state assets and in the uncontrolled transfer of otherwise existing economic key positions to market participants. In addition to the international crisis, the Orbán government inherited a number of problems, it is not only due to the self-destructive, self-resolving state wealth policy that the previous governments have followed. Since the change of government, we have been fighting to recover the tools that our ancestors have abandoned consciously or unconsciously, but along with a bad policy. A more economic, transparent system focused on the preservation, widespread exploitation and cost-effective management of assets has been put in place with renewable wealth policy, the definition of the principle of unitary asset management and in the spirit of it. In accordance with the government objectives of responsible and efficient management of the nation's wealth and in order to meet clear social expectations for the preservation of public wealth, the government also ensures the protection of national assets at the highest level in the field of legal standards. Thanks to these guarantees and extensive legislation to protect national assets, we see the future transparent and efficient use of assets that can be used to increase national assets as provided for by the bill. In view of this, the government supports the bill, and we ask the Parliament to do so. Thank you for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have the speeches from our representatives, the lead speaker's round. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Member Bertalan Tóth. Here you go.
u2015-06-17-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It's a rabbit's tail bill that lies in front of us, but the significance, I think, is outstanding. Although, if you will allow me, I would not like to say our position and my position from the approach we have heard so far, since both speakers and the national representative and the government were embarrassed by the fact or the expression that, in fact, 3 million people have included the regulation of the use of funds left over from HUF 3000 billion of private pension assets in this bill. There was talk of wealth management, there was talk of robbery privatisation, there was talk of a new concept here, so I would like to say that the new concept of Fidesz began by taking away 3 million HUF 3000 billion of pension assets from 3 million people, the savings that people thought would be saving in their old age. As I said, the law itself contains an important provision that, on the basis of the government's decision, it is possible to use the remaining assets, funds, or we do not know what kind of asset it is, because the bill does not make any reference to what is left of this property. But I would like to take this opportunity, because both Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member have given a deeper analysis of this process to give a thought or two, to make a few excuses and a few facts about the use of this fund. The Fund was set up by the Parliament on 22 December 2010 with the adoption of a law on certain legislative amendments relating to the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund and the conduct of the Free Pension Fund elections. According to government statements, the purpose of the Fund was to protect the pensions of members of compulsory private pension funds, to introduce individual pension accounts and to promote government debt reduction objectives. With the former promise to create individual pension accounts, the government still owes to this day, Fidesz still owes. It didn't happen, there's no individual accounts. [[18.40]] As much as it is praised, the government's debt reduction targets have not been sufficiently met, since at the end of the third quarter of 2014, debt-to-GDP ratio was 83 per cent. So what you are saying is that this year and next year's planned government debt is falling, but what you have taken away from 3 million people, 3 million Hungarian citizens, to reduce public debt has failed. So during this period, when you spent it, you used it, the public debt did not fall, but increased. As I was saying, let me give you some information about the use of this fund. Pursuant to that law, the fund took over assets and assets forming a portfolio of natural persons who had withdrawn from the social security pension scheme, the cost of which was HUF 2945.3 billion on 31 May 2011, corresponding to around 10 percent of the gross domestic product at that time. By the end of 2011, the fund was only HUF 684.3 billion and HUF 316 billion by the end of 2012. By the end of 2013, the Fund practically spent the assets entrusted to it, the Government Debt Management Centre Zrt. According to his statement, he shrunk to HUF 0.2 billion at the end of the year and HUF 0.1 billion at the end of September 2014. The Government Debt Management Centre Zrt. According to information available on its website, the Fund has spent a total of HUF 2034.9 billion in debt reduction of 6.7 percent of GDP since 2011, paid HUF 459 billion in the central budget, as well as HUF 233.2 billion in real return for the former members of the private pension fund. Compared to HUF 2945.3 billion in initial assets, the fund recorded some HUF 218 billion in revaluation losses. It is noteworthy that the fund sold the stock securities in 2011 with a loss of HUF 18.4 billion compared to the cost, and in 2013 with a loss of HUF 40.17 billion, and only in 2012 it managed to achieve a surplus of HUF 5.8 billion on the sale of the securities. So this is your successful portfolio management activity, which you just referred to. On this basis, it can be concluded that with the help of the Fund, the government spent nearly HUF 3000 billion, 3 million people set aside the amount of almost 10 per cent of GDP for old age, pension savings, without a substantial reduction in public debt, a sustainable path, but without savings from members who have returned to the social security system, and their promises for individual pension accounts have not been fulfilled. In connection with the operation of the fund, allow me to make a few suggestions. During the operation of the fund, some HUF 218 billion of revaluation losses were recorded, as I mentioned, and these annual losses were also made, and only one year there was a profit of 5.8 billion. There were regulatory shortcomings with regard to the operation of the Fund, as the Fund itself established on 22 December 2010 a regulation implementing the law amending the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund and the management of the free choice of pension funds, but only on 31 May 2011. The Fund's governing body started its activities without the implementing regulation, so long before this legislative process took place. In May 2011, the Fund's governing body authorised the General Manager of the Government Debt Management Centre to develop a detailed sales strategy, but it was established and adopted only on 6 October 2011. This means that there was no agreed sales strategy until 6 October. At the same time, in addition to the return of sovereign debt, it sold some HUF 450 billion of other assets without having an appropriate sales policy. Also, until the end of October, there was no Code of Conduct for the Fund. The Fund concluded a contract on 31 May 2011 with the Government Debt Management Centre Zrt. on the management and sale of financial assets and other related services owned by the Fund, but they would have had the time to do so in the previous five months. So this contract was also concluded later, this agreement. I would like to draw attention to an important aspect of the regulatory problems here. UniCredit Bank Zrt. has been entrusted by UniCredit Bank Zrt. with a restricted tender for the provision of a depositary service of HUF 512 billion in foreign securities, according to the report on the activities of the Fund in 2011. According to the data provided, in this report, the Governing Board held its first meeting on 18 May 2011, while the Government Debt Management Centre acted on 10 May in order to request a proposal by seeking only UniCredit Bank Zrt. Let us not forget, however, that György Matolcsy is the advisor to this bank before its former ministerial appointment. As I mentioned, it was also a procedure that, through a private, opaque process, appointed a targeted bank to sell these securities. I would also like to point out that, for a period of five months, between 15 June 2012 and 15 November 2012, Roland Natran was the chairman of the governing body of the Fund, given that he was appointed CEO of Eximbank on 15 June 2012 and that he also served as Chairman of the Governing Board, which was legally incompatible. In conclusion, the noble goal, as you have put it, which is the expansion of national wealth, has been achieved by stealing 3 million people's savings of HUF 3000 billion. Various activities were carried out from which expenditure was financed. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the functioning of the Governing Board and the Government Debt Management Centre leave something to be desired, since they have been able to make use of non-debted funds with serious losses. Allow me to make one more comment here before I ask my questions, and it concerns the fact that the increase in state wealth is now considered to be a priority, so I would like to point out that, for example, the increase in state wealth in the energy sector has cost Hungarian taxpayers nearly HUF 1000 billion, so this has meant expenditure. I would like to ask you on the basis of the bill, because it does not say that we understand that the remaining assets are intended to be used for a different purpose here, but we do not know what other assets are and what else this proposed amendment concerns. On the basis of the comments listed above, we will not support this bill, but we do wonder what is left to increase state wealth or even municipal wealth. I am looking forward to this, Mr Secretary of State, with the honour of your reply. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-221	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think that in this law, although reassure me, there may be more to it than that, because in this fund, anyway, the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund has other funds than what is left over from pension funds. There are no exact figures here, we can argue, according to my research, there are 177 million forints left of this private pension fortune or that's all there was in it. [[18.50]] But I think this law says interesting things. And what's in this fund? In this fund, for example, as far as I know - which is why it would be good to know what is in it anyway - I don't know how much they remember it, in 2011 a Catholic priest from Northern Hungary launched an initiative where he said that he calculated that if every Hungarian citizen paid HUF 2 million to the state in one fund, then the government debt could be paid. He immediately contributed 2 million forints to this thing, and since then there have been deposits. As far as I know, about 208 million forints were paid for debt settlement, so that we can settle the debt, but I would like to ask you, and I would like to ask you right here whether this donation, which even politicians have donated to a lesser or greater extent, I understand how much money from this donation has come into this fund, so how much money has been added up and how much money has been paid. It is important, moreover, to what extent these people have paid because these people have donated this money for a specific purpose, and have paid the money for a specific purpose, namely to reduce public debt. Every other purpose we use this money for is to deceive these people. It can be used, of course, you can, you can use it for something else, but from then on, we will deceive these people. Similarly, when, let's say, 1 percent of their taxes are offered to be used for mashing, because they consider it important to spend as much money as possible to clean the rag grass, and then you spend it, say, on shoe cleaning machines, laptops, mobile phones, office supplies, diplomatic bags and scones, because government agencies think that it's more important for them, and that's what they're spending it on. So when we use targeted money for a completely different purpose, this is a problem because with this attitude you are discrediting the institution of very important social solidarity in all societies. After all, if people encounter that they are giving to noble purposes, through them, for important purposes, offering their money and not spending it on it, then in the future, how will you ask this society for help and solidarity, even on matters of real importance, if you feel that you are deceiving them? So in this case, it is clear that the payment of these funds could not be said, as this law now seeks to say, so that it can be used to reduce public debt or to increase government or municipal wealth, on the basis of the government's decision. This could not be, since these people did not pay this money to increase public or municipal wealth, but to reduce public debt. So there are two options. One: this amount that has been paid will only be used to reduce public debt, or two: we will transfer the money back to these people because we have not been able to use it for the purpose for which they have paid it. So I think that these two would be fair and normal solutions in this case, and that we might be able to restore it, or at least send a message to people that if you see an important purpose, then feel free to donate, feel free to help, because we are only going to use this money for what you think it is, and not for anything else. There's one more question. However, the law says that MNV Zrt. is intended to be used for the purpose of the sale and exploitation of the product. Now, it can't be anything but a government debt or a government decision to increase state property or municipal property. Doesn't this sentence mean that from now on MNV Zrt. From now on, public assets sold in any area can be used not only for debt repayment, because what is happening now? That's what's happening, and here's another question: state or municipal property. What does municipal property supposed to have to do with the public sector? This is what the local government is about, that the municipality is responsible for managing, that the municipality has a certain wealth, and with this wealth, with the resources it receives, it is responsible for managing and developing its own territory. 'Cause what's going on here? It may happen that certain municipalities, such as these, are irresponsiblely self-employed, may be in good company with the government, and I now point out once again that Fidesz-KDNP does not always have to take it on, because if we make laws, those laws will continue to exist later, and I think that we can only agree - even if you do not think so - that you will not always govern them. Well, let's not give others the opportunity to say that there is a local government that is dear to me, close to me, even though this municipality is irresponsible in farming, the same rights as other local governments, the same resources, the irresponsible management, so let's give him a little help. And we can help him by not giving him money, but, let's say, buying some real estate, from this property we increase the local government's assets, and then this municipality will sell this property in the same way in a short time, or the area or anything else, and it will have resources and revenue. So I think there are very, very serious concerns about this law here, and that is why the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot support it, in this form alone, so the two main reasons that I have said, that is to say, about the municipalities, and that the people whose money is in it didn't give this money to this and they didn't give it to this, the people's money can't be used only for this source. So we want us to continue to retain that opportunity, that is to say, only the possibility of using such funds and their use only to reduce public debt. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-17-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to add a few additions or clarifications to the comments of my fellow Members. My fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, mentioned a certain period of retirement of private pension funds, although there are private pension funds today, so we all know that they have not ceased; how this situation has emerged, when Central European states have been put here as pilots in the establishment of compulsory private pension funds, perhaps during the Horn government, and practically the amount to be paid to the state pension fund has been reduced by the amounts paid there, and this missing amount has had to be replaced by borrowings for long years, obviously, because this amount has been missing. The Hungarian pension system was based on the principle of solidarity, and it was able to recover it now, as protecting pensions means that these payments are not in uncertain private pension funds, but the state is behind the state pension fund, and so there is the coverage of pensions. Just one example: During János Veres' Finance Ministership, there was a year when private pension funds paid HUF 80 billion to the state pension fund, because those who would have retired calculated how much their pension would be paid from there and how much they would receive from the state, and it came out that if they only used the state, they would be much better off. So, so much for the practice rehearsal. Secondly, why these elements can be involved in such details and in this debt reduction. Obviously, what was in government bonds - quite rightly - could be used immediately for debt reduction, but the fact that socialist governments increased year after year the ratio that private pension funds invested in various investments and shares, I don't even talk about the part they spent on their own operating costs, these were risky investments. Obviously, this is what has suffered these losses, which are listed here by the Member from different years. So, basically now, a situation has been created where the same system is in place as before the introduction of private pension funds, and the state guarantees the value of pensions, guarantees the payment of pensions and the establishment of pensions. [[19.00]] In practice, neither the current pensioners nor the pensioners who are going to retire are at risk of the introduction of private pension funds, the impact of various international financial crises on the value of pension funds, not to mention their liquidity, and I do not think that we have lived in times when we should have been involved. Mr György Szilágyi mentioned the relationship between state and municipal assets here. We know, MNV Zrt. Every year, it meets local government requirements by billions of forints, which does not mean that municipalities only ask for real estate items that are then sold the next day and the money is spent well. Let me just give you an example from my constituency. There is a so-called wilderness next to one of the settlements, where it was the centre of a state economy. 24 apartments are still located in the area, of course privatized in the socialist era properly the economy, the apartments are there, their water supply has not been solved to this day, there is no owner, the state is still the owner of the territory. Technically, if the municipality requires it, it will receive it, then it will be able to take care of the population there. Obviously, it has to be traced from the books of the state to MNB Zrt., because otherwise, it has to be funded so that no loss of assets occurs. Thus, such practical examples give rise to the fact that every year the state and the municipalities agree, on the basis of different packages, on what can be operated better than local authorities, and MNV Zrt. has to give the government the right authority to do so. I think this amendment of the law will serve the purpose that we have set out in your explanatory statement, and I hope that it will fulfil its purpose. The questions that Mr President has asked regarding the various figures are open to all of us to put them in writing to the competent ministry, and the exact numbers are given within the appropriate time limit, as provided by the law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a decision on the prevention of hidden party funding and the safeguarding of trust in the institutions of the European Union until closure. Gergely Gulyás, Lajos Kósa, Bence Tuzson, and István Németh Szilárd, who joined them today, have a separate motion H/5139. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The Parliament invites the Government to initiate negotiations with the European Commission on the contract practice for the control of EU financial assistance; examine the conflict of interest rules for Members of Parliament and for the financing of political parties; examine the possibility of preventing and sanctioning conflicts of interest of this kind, taking into account existing EU and domestic legislation; examine whether the support from Hungarian budgetary resources of the party receiving party funding by circumventing Hungarian laws can be suspended until the legal situation is restored. That is the essence of the resolution proposal before us. Why did this end up in the National Assembly? We know very well that a few weeks ago - and now it is clear and well known to everyone - that the financial control of EU funds has become clear that a Hungarian party leader, a current Member of Parliament, leader of a small party on the far left, is a company owned by DK's party president, who has already made a large name for himself several times - Altus Rt. - has been assigned to this task of the European Union, not even for a small commission, but for a value of EUR 5 million, i.e. HUF 1500 million. This was not unique in the life of the European Union, and during Martin Schulz's presidency, the former Socialist Bulgarian Prime Minister, Sergei Stanishev, was also commissioned, but he was able to sign a much slimmer contract of engagement, which was worth 60 thousand euros, and there should have been a promotional activity to promote an election campaign. Therefore, he should not have done so directly from the opposition as the former Hungarian Prime Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány, to control his own country, to control the financial support of his own country in the European Union. This was also a scandal, and Mr Stanisev withdrew the contract as a result of this scandal. So there was so much spirit presence, so much honor, if you like it, that it didn't work that way here, because at any time, whether it was party funding, red aid, comrades, the fallen comrades, could come up with help in these contracts, and he paid it back to the last penny, and he didn't even have to pay it back because he had stopped the contract. We have not experienced this at Ferenc Gyurcsány, even though we have repeatedly called upon Ferenc Gyurcsány, and the parties here have repeatedly called upon Ferenc Gyurcsány not to sign this order, because it is clearly obvious that if we look at the money he has taken from this company, he will use a significant part of the money he makes as profits and dividends to fund his party; this can be clearly seen from the documents. For example, the last time he received a dividend of HUF 180 million, and I think that such a very serious order, which comes from the European Union for HUF 1500 million, will increase the dividend, and this dividend will increase the party's revenue and the funds at the party's disposal. This, I think, is clear to everyone, so we don't have to talk about this anymore. What we want, I think, is that we may be able to say that this impertinent and, in our opinion, we must in any way prevent both the European Union's financing of parties in breach of ethos and Hungarian rules, which is why we are here today in front of the Parliament. We did not want to bring this legislation before the Parliament, this parliamentary resolution proposal, in our opinion the ball bounces at Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party. It is clear that if they were to act like the former Bulgarian Prime Minister, Mr Stanisev, then we should not even be talking about this issue, but they hold on to this mandate with their teeth and their fingernails, insisting that the European Union provide them with hidden party funding. On the other hand, I think it is important to emphasise the relationship between Hungary and the European Union on this issue, because it is clear that, according to our Fundamental Law, Hungary can exercise some of its powers, together with the other Member States, through the institutions of the European Union, on the basis of an international treaty for its participation as a Member State of the European Union, to the extent necessary for the exercise of the rights and obligations arising from the founding treaties. The institutions of the European Union are responsible for maintaining the unity of the Union in such a way that the diversity of the nations of each Member State is always respected. The institutions of the European Union, acting in their responsibilities, should not interfere in the daily political battles of individual Member States, should not engage in activities that threaten plural democracy, based on free competition between parties, either openly or by favouring certain political parties. All such activities undermine the credibility and democratic legitimacy of the European Union and its institutions. With all due respect, I would ask my fellow Members to discuss the proposal for a resolution and, after the debate, to support the ideas before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[19.10]]
u2015-06-17-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Mr Répássy Róbert asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-17-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has not yet discussed the Parliamentary resolution proposal, so I cannot communicate a government position with you. However, I would like to point out that since the Parliamentary motion for a resolution would ask the Government to act on certain activities, the Government will certainly meet this request and will carry out the task entrusted to it by the Parliament. I find it a little regrettable that the parliamentary representatives of the so-called Democratic Coalition do not want to hear the parliamentary decision on them, and so does Ferenc Gyurcsány himself. It will soon be known whether there are still Gyurcsányists in the MSZP who are ready to defend their former party president, despite the fact that he has destroyed the MSZP and is now working to have a new party as leader of the left. Soon we will hear the opinion of the MSZP. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-17-228	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Petneházy. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is particularly important for a Member of Parliament to talk about fundamental trust between citizens and the state. Why is this important? Well, citizens meet in many cases during their daily lives, if you will, with the representation of the state. We know - whether it is the public administration or any other area - that this kind of trust has been steadily increasing since 2010, and today, among the people - if we recall this, this was not the case at the time - the police have one of the highest esteems, unlike the year 2006, the year 2006 when the then Prime Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány, found the following words to be said:, I was simply impressed by the professionalism with which the police did their job and defended me, a decent tax-paying citizen. I was wondering if I should thank you somehow. Now, this government police force has not experienced violence since the change of regime, without identification numbers, with unscheduled weapons, with a few hundred genuinely violent protesters, beating up law-abiding citizens who exercise their constitutional rights, shooting out their eyes, and causing many unworkable traumas to date. Nearly ten years later, the same man tries not to expand trust between the Hungarian state and citizens, but to destroy it against the institutions of the European Union. I believe that we should not leave this, including with my fellow Member. It may not be useless to repeat the quotes of Congressman Németh once again. In order to participate in the European Union as a Member State, Hungary exercises some of its powers under the Fundamental Law on the basis of an international treaty, jointly with the other Member States, through the institutions of the European Union. As already stated in the Constitution text before accession to the EU, the institutions of the Union can exercise the powers delegated together with us, and it follows, as has already been said, that the institutions of the European Union should not interfere in the daily political battles of individual Member States, which are largely linked to our present topic, and should not engage in activities that could endanger the functioning of pluralist democracy, based on free competition between parties, either openly or by favouring certain political parties. Compared to this, we know that the European Commission has concluded a contract with Altus Zrt., a hundred percent owned by Ferenc Gyurcsány, to investigate the use of EU development funds in Hungary. I believe that it is contrary to all the principles of law that the European Commission enters into a contract with a company wholly owned by the President of any party in any Member State. And it is absolutely nonsense that this should be subject to development control based on public decisions everywhere. I therefore consider it important that, in the proposal for a decision, the Parliament invites the Government to initiate negotiations with the European Commission on contract practice for the control of EU financial assistance. In addition, examine the rules of conflict of interest for Members of Parliament and for the financing of political parties. It should also examine the possibility of preventing and sanctioning such conflicts of interest, taking into account existing EU and domestic legislation and possibly amending them. Also, consider whether the support from the Hungarian budget of the party funded by the Hungarian government through the circumvention of Hungarian laws has been granted until the legal situation has been restored, so don't give up, God, whether it can be suspended. The European People's Party, which is also a member of the Fidesz community, is organised along the lines of principles which cannot allow Ferenc Gyurcsány to undermine confidence in the institutions of the European Union, and with this hidden party funding he is also trying to influence Hungarian public life. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-17-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-17-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, H/5139 on the prevention of party financing and the protection of trust in the institutions of the European Union. The proposal for a decision sets itself two objectives: to safeguard confidence in the European Union and to prevent hidden party funding. Let us start with the question of whom confidence in the European Union has wavered, and if it has wavered, what is the reason for this. The Hungarian peacock-dancing government has already betrayed the confidence of the institutions of the European Union. Last week, the European Parliament, not for the first time, took a decision condemning the Hungarian Government. The decision adopted states that the death penalty is incompatible with respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, and would violate the EU Treaty if a Member State introduced it. The text of the Decision also mentions the immigration poster circus and points out that the government's consultation questionnaire blames the European Union and seeks to shift its own responsibility. The European Parliament's confidence in the Hungarian government's activities has once again been shaken, as the resolution states that the events of the last year in Hungary may all mean that the risk of systemic threats to the rule of law is emerging. And the Orbán government has lost confidence in the fact that the European Union's institutions are being repeatedly, continuously and insufferably deceived. [[19.20]] We hope that it will not succeed, despite the fact that he is eager to paint a better picture of himself in the bodies of both the Union and the European Council. So much for trust. It would be appropriate for the parliamentary majority to oblige the Hungarian Government to regain confidence on the international stage in the interests of the Hungarian people through decent work, by safeguarding the legal framework and by providing predictable governance. The proposal for a resolution before us was, in the least, submitted by my pro-government fellow Members in the spirit of self-criticism. It's their job to account for the voters with their own conscience. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us now look at the other stated objective of the resolution proposal, the prevention of party funding submitted. Well, we've got a lot to talk about, a lot of it. Between 2010 and 2015, the distribution of public land within the Fidesz community, the reorganization of the Trafikkuty, the savings cooperative sector and other economic areas, the redistribution of the market to the Oligarchies near Fidesz, rightly raises the question: what did these measures do? István Horváth, the most well-known protagonist in Trafikmuty, the sentence of the Parliamentary Representative of Fidesz, can provide one side of the answer, and I quote: "The point must be that he is committed to being right-wing, and how many knockers he has brought in. So one of the aims of the economic measures is to spread the gratitude money, to reward the faithful. The other possible interpretation is not irrelevant to the present proposal for a decision: could some of the public money allocated be returned to the Fidesz register. If someone doesn't understand exactly, I would stress specifically: if a political party receives support from its public beneficiaries, it is not only forbidden, but also a typical case of money laundering. Press reports have dealt with the large-scale enrichment of some oligarchs on numerous occasions, their spectacular and personal ascension. Lőrinc Mészáros, Sándor Csányi, István Garancsi, Andy Vajna and many others [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Gábor Simon! Dr. Bertalan Tóth: He's in custody.]] His name is not just the legendary friendships with the Prime Minister that keep him at the centre of public interest. Lajos Simicska, former economic director of Fidesz, so to speak, the Minister of Finance, and the friend of the Prime Minister who seems to be wavering does not change what has already happened. Think of the funding of the M4, where the government knew very well that the European Union was not going to finance it already in 2013, it already knew a hundred percent in 2014, but it still believed the population, and in December 2014 Viktor Orbán's government decision was still able to raise the budget by 50 billion, knowing that the European Union was not financing it. There are a lot of questions about this one project: why would the government or Fidesz need this 50 billion forint? One of the typical examples of Lőrinc Mészáros and his family, pigs and tramps, which bring the family an income that can't be spent without reason. We remember the forgotten billion-dollar asset statement. Unless, of course, there's another recipient of this busy gathering than the gasman's wallet or perhaps the support of one of the political parties. Dear Parliament, It would be a long time to list each one's circle of friends from the owners of offshore companies to the pool rich. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Does Gyurcsány have a pool?]] I think that we really need to look at what measures could lead to and lead to hidden conflicts of interest, and thus to illicit couples financing. Therefore, the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party propose to add two points to the resolution proposal before them, and I quote. The Parliament invites the Government to examine the political activities of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association between 2010 and 15 in order to explore whether, as a result of the reorganization and redistribution of the state, the Trafikmuty, the savings cooperative sector and other economic areas, the winners of the economic life supported the political activities in a manner contrary to the prohibition of conflict of interest rules on the financing of political parties; the following point is to examine whether the political activities of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance have been supported in a manner contrary to the prohibition of conflict of interest rules for the financing of political parties by persons belonging to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, in particular Lőrinc Mészáros, Lajos Simicska, István Garancsi and others. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: If I understand correctly, they will name Gyurcsány here.]] With the adoption of the amending proposal, it would be possible to pour clear water if the glass had not yet been stolen. Nor is it indifferent to the proposal for a decision on the subject to examine whether legislation or procedure used for individual cases could have opened the way for prohibited party financing. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Lazarus has already confessed.]] And let me tell you one more thing. Andy Vajna received nearly HUF 7 billion as a gift from the Orbán government. In 2012, there is a law governing the use of slot machines only in casinos. In 2013, casinos can deduct concession fees from the toy tax. Andy Vajna earns a billion HUF through Las Vegas Casino. Andy Vajna's company, see the miracle, wins the operating rights of all five casinos in Budapest. With this, the state will waive the profits, which has so far been the Gambling Company. from casinos operated by the State. This profit goes into Vajna's pocket. After all, they form a law, and they amend the law so that the concession fee for casinos will now become VAT-free. They do not reduce or eliminate the VAT on basic foods, but give discounts to casinos. According to a news portal of the five casinos, Andy Vajna has HUF 7 billion a year in his pocket. That's what the government gives you every year as a gift. We can ask who should be grateful, whom and what kind of organization should be supported from this HUF 7 billion after such an easy-to-reach income. I believe that if the government can allocate HUF 3 billion for the summer social catering, and we can give Andy Vajna HUF 7 billion a year, then we are legally asking: yes, we need to examine how and what party has been supported by certain development sources or given funds. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-17-232	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of KDNP... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy is talking to Dr. Robert Répássy.]] Congressman! The Vesónok of KDNP is Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-233	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a well-known fact that the European Commission has concluded a mandate contract with a consortium of 11 members, led by a Hungarian opposition party leader and a parliamentary representative, to carry out its financial control tasks, for a commission fee of EUR 5 million, i.e. HUF 1.5 billion, to review development funds. The decision on the part of the European Commission whether the appointment of the above consortium was direct, deliberate, or just incidentally accidental, is not for me to decide. [[Németh Szilárd István: This is unlikely.]] But the political color casts a shadow on the case. This shadow is a serious threat to confidence in the EU institutions. Ladies and Gentlemen, This raises the issue of illicit party financing in many. Under its Fundamental Law, Hungary may exercise its respective powers, together with the other Member States, through the institutions of the European Union, on the basis of an international treaty for its participation as a Member State of the European Union. [[19.30]] The institutions of the European Union are responsible for maintaining the unity of the Union in such a way that they must always respect the diversity of individual Member States and nations. The institutions of the European Union, acting under their responsibility, should not interfere in the daily political battles of individual Member States, should not engage in activities that could jeopardise the functioning of plural democracy on the basis of free competition between parties, either openly or by favouring certain political parties. All such activities undermine the credibility and democratic legitimacy of the institutions of the European Union. Ladies and Gentlemen, Thus, the existence of conflict of interest itself arises as a question. The lack of conflicts of interest during the course of the tender was clearly to be declared by the applicant. However, we could not see the specific applicant statement, because, although the Hungarian Government opposed the procedure of the European Commission and, as a result of its involvement, asked for an insight into the case documents, all of this was categorically rejected by the European Commission. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction agrees with T/5139. With the draft draft parliamentary resolution No.3 and the proposal for a resolution itself, which states that according to the Hungarian Parliament it is unacceptable that an economic company owned by a party president and a Member of Parliament should be entrusted with the tasks of financial control of European Union aid. This raises, on the one hand, the possibility of indirect party financing, in violation of equal opportunities between political parties and, on the other hand, of undermining the EU's authority and trust in the EU institutions. The KDNP also supports the part of the decision proposal which invites the Government to initiate negotiations with the European Commission on the contractual practice of monitoring EU financial assistance, the rules on conflicts of interest and the sanctioning of infringements. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-17-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr President Novák. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This additional government action is unacceptable, while the current government continues to be indebted by accountability, especially with the accountability of Ferenc Gyurcsány. In March 2010, in the pre-election campaign, János Lázár said that, I quote, the future does not begin without the socialists and the free democrats being counted for the governance of the last eight years. A number of people have made statements like this, but we have not seen those who have been accounted for. There were a lot more government commissioners who talked about success propaganda, but in fact, not just a chain of prisoners, but rather a diplomatic passport for these bastards, including János Kóka. To be exact, we do not know because, for reasons of national security, the current government has encrypted who else received a diplomatic passport, say, from the former governments of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and János Lázár, to quote only the former statement, the continuation of it:. The Fidesz, when it comes to government, must begin to be accounted for by making all data and information available to the public. In comparison, we do not even know who received a diplomatic passport, since the Government also refused to answer my fellow Member Szávay's written question. We agree with Fidesz that it is really unacceptable for the institutions of the European Union to transfer financial control tasks to companies, and it is even more shocking that Altus Zrt., a parliamentary representative, party president, is owned by Ferenc Gyurcsány. a consortium led by the consortium shall perform these tasks. Their proposal for a decision grievances that Ferenc Gyurcsány's opinion on the application of Article VII of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. A fraction of his income from his district Dohány's registered company on the street is used to support his party, which they consider to be indirect party financing. I think that's a pretty bold interpretation, because, for example, I am referring to the widow of an innocent victim of Gypsy crime as a regular donation from my remuneration from the National Assembly. Then it can be said that the National Assembly, in a hidden way, provides this instead of an open foundation for victims of Gypsy crime. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] compensation for the victims?
u2015-06-17-236	Mr. Congressman, you have once again used a phrase that is not permitted here at the National Assembly.
u2015-06-17-237	Which one is it?
u2015-06-17-238	I will not repeat it, Congressman, you know very well, and I ask you very much not to provoke me, and I am warning you now. You know, he's been using it twice. I'm asking you to stop using that term.
u2015-06-17-239	All right. Although the Supreme Court has the opposite view, if we are thinking of the same word, then let us move on. Wow, now I look at every sentence, I read it in advance, I might ask for a reading break, so that Mr. President...
u2015-06-17-240	You'd better have done this in advance.
u2015-06-17-241	I didn't think there was such a strict standard...
u2015-06-17-242	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-06-17-243	I get it. So the point is that, in this case, this kind of hidden funding is not in the Parliament for my remuneration. But let's see what it is, then, that can be considered as hidden party funding. Wouldn't party financing be when public money is carried out with Simicska's wheelbarrow and Nyerges tow, mostly for the purpose of, say, operating mediums that were once considered fidesz? Wouldn't it be party financing if Fidesz oligarchs, like Árpád Habony, were funded hiding in the dark? Well, we don't know exactly what he's doing. We know one thing or two, that you're very close to Fidesz and that you're very rich. Wouldn't the Civil Alliance Forum, the CF, have been able to finance the dirty work, the negative campaign that was carried out with the CF for very serious money, billions of dollars in billboard campaigns? Wouldn't party funding be the government propaganda that is being conducted regularly, even on billboards and other instruments, which is not in a thank-you relationship with any government information, as it is a one-sided demagogic success propaganda, instead of continuing this with Fidesz's money, say, in election campaigns? Wouldn't party funding be a part of the government propaganda, or even a part of the national consultation called that, but in fact it would be more government propaganda, and, by the way, data collection in many cases to the greatest pleasure of Gábor Kubatov? Wouldn't party funding also be when they put their own Mamluks in different positions, such as ministerial commissioners and other phantom posts, to finance their livelihoods, and who knows what commissions they want back from it for party purposes? Let me quote John Lazarus again. He said before the elections, back in 2010, that it was necessary to prevent politicians involved in cases from escaping prosecution under immunity. In Hungary, re-regulation of immunity law will be one of the cornerstones of the restoration of public trust in terms of the responsibility of politicians. "The rethink of immunity after 20 years is current in Hungary," said János Lázár. That is what he said before the elections and what we saw: that immunity was not touched, of course, he entered into the Fundamental Law at the level of fine words, that everyone is equal before the law, but then it turned out that there are more equals who deserve this political irresponsibleness in fact. Despite the promise of János Lázár, they did not touch the issue of immunity, nor did Ferenc Gyurcsány have long been granted immunity and political protection. After the D.A.'s request to suspend the immunity of Ferenc Gyurcsány in April 2011, they did not reply that they immediately did so in order to move forward with the investigation, the accountability, but from May to September they pulled this simple matter. After all, it was not the task of the Parliament to establish its guilt, merely whether they wish to provide political protection to Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[19.40]] And they wanted me, from April to May, at least, as long as this case was held up, despite our repeated protests, so they delayed and delayed the accountability. This is clearly the government's responsibility. Because it is possible to point the finger at the court - I might add, often rightly, because they have their own crime and even their own omissions and delays - but it is also certain that the government has its own responsibility to provide political protection to Ferenc Gyurcsány with immunity. For when it comes to a better man, say, a 2006 police terrorist, let's say we called him a Vávos, within weeks my immunity was suspended because of such a case, even if it was a police officer who was later arrested in the Vizoviczki case. But protecting his honor was more important to you than anything else. And in such cases they could make decisions in weeks, not in the case of Ferenc Gyurcsány, political protection, immunity was granted to him for six months. And here is also the case where, in the autumn 2006 cases, not only was there no accountability, but there was no hearing. He didn't say anything about interrogation, he didn't go to his hearing. After all, although the Constitution required that every Hungarian citizen be required to testify before the parliamentary committee in order to summon the parliamentary committee, Ferenc Gyurcsány, as his predecessor, the Pufakás, had said earlier, and he did not give a damn about his constitutional obligation. He was still in the Constitution at the time. The new Fundamental Law is no longer in it, unfortunately, even that it is obliged by any citizen, so even a former Prime Minister will appear to subpoena a committee and make a statement there. However, he was still involved, in this sense he violated a constitution, without consequences, because in how many cases we can see that a former Prime Minister can do it without consequences. We would not have left this without consequences, as opposed to the government that wiped out our proposal to lose a mandate in such a case, and, in the end, obviously even a pre-emption, as in the case of any Hungarian citizen, if it does not appear to be a court summons, sooner or later it will have to deal with the consequences of the pre-emption. How did you guys do that? The State Secretary's answer was to our fellow Member, Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, who put this proposal forward - because we immediately responded to such amazing Gyurcsányi incompetences - that they understand the problem raised by Jobbik - they do not dare to say that it is not a problem, for a while they have done this in connection with a certain forbidden word that I do not say here, so as not to withdraw the word again - but they said that the problem already exists, but that Jobbik's solution is not appropriate, but rather the political culture must be made so that such a despicable case does not occur, the State Secretary said how many constitutional obligations a former Prime Minister's floppies and does not appear before the committee. Do you understand? The Secretary of State expects, while sweeping off Jobbik's substantive legislative proposal, that Ferenc Gyurcsány will bring us some kind of political culture that will change that, perhaps he will bring this political culture directly from Balatonősd. In the midst of such delays, we have seen that all our proposals have been swept away, perhaps the most important. The original sin, their prehistoric sin, is, in fact, that the current government is indebted to by a lazy law. I mean, if you're involved in the derailment of the regime, it's XX. This omission would not have been committed, and the former Communist leaders would have been excluded from public life, and Ferenc Gyurcsány himself could not have committed the crimes of 2006 and many others, since, let alone Prime Minister and Parliamentary Representative could not have been in a supposedly new system. He was also such a high-level leader of the previous system - the Secretary of the Central Committee of the KISZ - that we can rightly say that wherever we draw the line, he may be a high-school KIS Secretary, a smaller ex-communist László Kövér, let us say we would not exclude him from public life simply for this reason, it is possible to say otherwise that there is no place for an ex-communist politician in such Parliament, supposedly serving a system of authoritarianism. Let's imagine that there would be a former ex-Nazi politician here, wouldn't it, then everyone would be outraged that such a thing could happen? An ex-communist László Kövér may be here, all right, but his high-level leader, such as, say, Ferenc Gyurcsány or members of the Central Committee of the MSZMP, could get into the benches of MSZP, we know that there were more of them, like László Kovács, that I think is unacceptable. And if they had done what they still owed, which we submitted in the previous term, a Lustration Act, the banning of Communist leaders from public life, Ferenc Gyurcsány would not have committed all this sin. [[In the notary seat, the gullible Dezső will be replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]] But here's another story about the alleged change of regime. In 1989, under the leadership of MSZP and then Ferenc Gyurcsány, Demisz obtained unauthorized access to the assets of MSZMP and KISZ, basically real estate. At that time, we are talking about 12 billion forints at current prices of approximately 120 billion forints. Our better Member Tamás Gaudi-Nagy has also submitted a bill to account for these, with the help of Zoltán Minda, our expert on the reconnaissance of the assets of MSZMP and KISZ. In October 1989, MSZMP's assets were unlawfully transferred to the MSZP, which claimed to be its successor in every sense, although the Socialist Party can only be regarded as an intellectual successor. At the Congress of MSZMP in 1989, it was only part of the membership that established a new party under the right of association, the MSZP, which made the party state's assets theirs in one day. At that time, the property of the party state consisted of 752 real estate, and its value was HUF 8.3 billion at that time. The 1990 accounting law ate the bait because the 2006 terror party was already treated as its successor. No one's ever been held responsible for the illegal transfer of property. The same is the case regarding the Communist Youth Association, KISZ - Kövér László, and Ferenc Gyurcsány, with about a hundred properties. These were then worth more than HUF 3 billion. KISZ ceased on 22 April 1989, its property was not provided for, and it was transferred to the Demis, which was created only a month later. Here the illegitimate successor became Demis, the vice president of which, in the spring of 1989, was Ferenc Gyurcsány. Are we surprised he got so rich? The question, of course, is why the courts and Parliament covered the illegal operations at that time, which, after the four-yes referendum, would have had a legal obligation to settle in 1990. Well, Honourable Parliament, one more thought in closing, because the title and introduction of the proposal are so unsatisfyingly and servibly EU hireling [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You got this!]] I am sure that I will present at least one amendment in this regard. For example, here is the sentence that we are convinced that the citizens of Hungary have made the right decision when they have taken their position by a large majority in favour of joining the European Community's institutional system. I think it would be justified to clarify this, not only because I think that they have made the wrong decision, but also because, at least, let us say that Hungary's citizens have been misled by a one-sided campaign, and that is why they have taken a large majority position in favour of accession. Let us just think that the European Union Communication Public Foundation has supported, on one side, only the campaign to join the EU, for example, whether I can open a pastry shop in Vienna, with public money, rather than enlightening people about the disadvantages of our membership in the EU, and what is expected, for example, that some people will not open a pastry shop, but bank accounts, as Gábor Simon did, unfortunately, without penalty. And unfortunately, all these accountabilitys are still waiting for you. Apparently, he's free to go himself with a hundred million forints, because they're taxing the stolen money a little bit, they're charging a medical contribution, and they have to pay personal income tax on the stolen money. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Béla Kovács receives them from the Russians!]] But by the way, you're free to leave according to the information that's been leaked. So this is where the accountability is today in Hungary. I therefore believe that the current government has a very big responsibility in the matter of making the accountability that it has promised to do and not hindering it, as it has done in many of the specific cases that I have listed here. So, Honourable Parliament, I ask you to take to heart what I have said. Ceterum censeo is a Gypsy crime. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-244	After that, I'm shutting you out of today. As Parliament does not have a quorum, my decision will be decided by the Parliament in accordance with the house rules among the closest decisions. [[We'll see.]] The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr András Schiffer. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-06-17-245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to add to the fact that I think that there is no place within the walls of this House for signs to be branded by any of our fellow citizens, especially since I do not really understand how this relates to this debate. Dear Parliament, We have no dispute that the European Commission has acted improperly or engages in inappropriate practices when it enters into a contract with the company of a person who is a leading party politician in any Member State of the European Union. Yes, we believe that, as there is a need for serious rules on conflicts of interest and anti-corruption within individual Member States, there is a need for a clear and consistent system of conflicts of interest, the bodies of the European Union, the European Commission, to be at the forefront. [[19.50]] It is not about the assessment of the Prime Minister's activities, it is not just about Hungary, it is not about the Democratic Coalition. The point is that this practice would also be outrageous if the European Commission happened to conclude a contract with an interest of Finland's prime minister, a month in office. This is not right, and I think that this practice can cause serious damage to the European Union. The Commission should take the lead in ensuring transparency and consistent conflict of interest rules. It's not like that. So the intention of the Hungarian Government to act in Brussels in order to eliminate this inappropriate practice could be supported by the small remark that, of course, everyone should be sweeping around their own house first, and, for example, it would not hurt the Hungarian government to take seriously the LMP's proposal to ban government propaganda if there is already some hidden party funding. So far, the initiative alone could be agreed. At the same time, I do not really know how the Democratic Coalition's state support for the formation on the back of the MSZP gets here. Dear Parliament, Again, we are not talking about the democratic coalition policy. I have an opinion on why and how people are entitled to state aid if they are good at negotiating before an election. But let it be the Hungarian Socialist Party's case that you are so charitable in handing out legally awarded state aid. The problem is, however, that the Democratic Coalition has received state aid legally on the one hand, but on the other hand, there is no evidence that there is any illegal party funding in the DK house. In order to make such a statement, an appropriate report from the State Audit Office would be required. We have all been examined by the State Audit Office, and I think it will also be examining the Democratic Coalition. If the State Audit Office's report finds something illegal, it can and must act in a manner specified by law. This does not require a parliamentary decision proposal, nor does the Hungarian government have to contribute. It is only strange that you are talking here about prohibited party financing for DK, since no accountability has taken place after 2010. So how the devil do they know how Ferenc Gyurcsány's business is interwoven, let's say, with the political activities of DK or Ferenc Gyurcsány at all, when, contrary to their election promises, no investigation was launched after 2010 to reveal this? It is an immeasurable hypocrite that, while the accountability has been sabotaged, it has been sabotaged, for example, in connection with the renovation of the government quarter, metro 4 and Margaret Bridge, and I could tell you further about the cases that have been grounded or not started, of course, the accountability has also been sabotaged in connection with the autumn 2006 police aggression, after which it will be five years, and suddenly they wonder that Ferenc Gyurcsány is also a party politician. Once again, I would stress that party financing is prohibited in this case only if the State Court of Auditors had any relevant information, facts. No way. Quite simply, the Hungarian Prime Minister lied when he said two weeks ago that there was a suspicion of illegal party financing in relation to DK. I will go further: and if, as any communication weapon, you seriously wave your state support from any party that has obtained legal rights to do so is withdrawn, it means that you have attacked parliamentary democracy based on a competing multi-party system. Many things can be said either about DK or about Ferenc Gyurcsány, about his governance, but the threat of withdrawal of state aid is taboo. Or if it is not taboo for you, it is a pity to bet, especially abroad, how much you respect the institutions of multi-party parliamentary democracy. In addition, you have a feeling that you have a completely out of control and aimless government policy, with continued loss of popularity, this whole Brussels business has come in handy. I wouldn't even be surprised if the Eurocrats in Brussels were even advised to enter into an agreement with Gyurcsány, because such a mess is especially good for you. The Gyurcsány card can be taken out again, the adrenaline levels of disillusioned Fidesz believers can be raised, and again we are not talking about emigration, again we are not talking about the upcoming social disaster, again we are not talking about the failed government work, but about what kind of skandalum happened in Brussels, because again Gyurcsány. This is getting a little boring. One has the feeling that Viktor Orbán and Ferenc Gyurcsány hold each other on the surface for a reason. This was also found out in the autumn of 2006. Why am I saying this? Because you come with a self-righteous picture that there will be party funding here, because the European Commission has agreed with Altus, although you have not revealed any fact that would suggest a monetary movement between Altus and DK, you would not have been able to reveal it, since accountability has been sabotaged. But this is a terrible hypocrite, because at the same time a photo appears: Péter Szijjártó in Singapore, with whom does Péter Szijjártó and the Hungarian Foreign Minister have a business delegation? János Kóka, if you remember this gentleman. Who does this János Kóka represent in the business delegation of the Hungarian government, the Orbán government? Well, let's see a miracle, a company that owns the Altus of Gyurcsány. What are we talking about? Aren't their eyes really going to shine? ! You talk about party financing here, while your government is where Prime Minister Orbán is led in Saudi Arabia, where Minister of Foreign Affairs Szijjártó in East Asia is doing nothing but doing business for Ferenc Gyurcsány's company? Then who's funding who here? What kind of hidden party funding are you talking about? For years, Gyurcsány interests have been happily held as a member of the business delegation of the Orbán government, in Hungarian, the Hungarian Prime Minister and the Hungarian Foreign Minister have been negotiating in Singapore, Tokyo and Riyadh so that Ferenc Gyurcsány and János Kóka can receive as much dividends as possible. So what's the problem here? You are helping the company whose European contract is now being challenged to gain more profit. It's just a scandal! The high school of cynicism is simply that you are in power as long as you can be shown to Ferenc Gyurcsány. And speaking of hidden party funding, if it's some kind of hidden party funding, then it's what your alleged civilian cooperation produced last spring. Hidden party funding is when they run a billion-dollar budget as part of a government cash register so that the government can post their current bullshit on billboards. Now, that's party funding. Therefore, if there is something to call on the Hungarian Government, it is to urgently present a bill on the accountability of the CF and the prohibition of government propaganda. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-246	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members who would like to speak. The opportunity for two-minute speeches is now also open. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey reporting.]] I would like to address Mr Imre Vejkey for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-247	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I must reject what our fellow Member has said by the predecessor of Novak. On the one hand, because within the walls of this House there can be no room for any insult to a minority and, on the other hand, because it has claimed that we are abusing immunity. I, as chairman of the immunity committee, must also reject this, because the reality of this statement is that, while we issue Members in public cases, not in private cases. Dear House, We know that Jobbik disagrees with the institution of immunity. But, ladies and gentlemen, immunity protects Parliament itself in the first place, and we therefore need to maintain the rules of immunity. So if Jobbik is going against immunity, it's actually going against parliamentarism. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-17-248	Thank you very much. The next two-minute speaker is Mr Attila Petneházy. Here you go.
u2015-06-17-249	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Taking down the last sentences of my fellow Member, I would also like to say a few words about the predecessor Novák, who, in his legendary low-key style, has just explained that we are EU tenants, he explained that we are providing political protection to Ferenc Gyurcsány, and that his honor is above all else. However, I think we can safely describe the things listed as being at a terrible distance from reality. [[20.00]] I think it's a serious distraction. Of course, it's what the President of Novak intended as a diversion. He talked about all kinds of things, about what we didn't do to hold Ferenc Gyurcsány accountable. I think that what is legally permissible in Ferenc Gyurcsány's mentioned cases has been committed to express myself so badly. But let me continue by saying that Mr Secretary of State began his speech at the beginning of the debate, that it will now be clear whether the pro-Gyurcsány people are still in the ranks of the MSZP. Well, to put it mildly, it seems to me like it's a little tricky. Because the other high school of distraction was, by the way, a very good start and the end of the speech that Congresswoman Bango had given us. But it is certain that there is one thing that we have not learned from it, and what is its view on this whole matter, and whether it contradicts the principles of law, whether the European Commission supports a Zrt. linked to Ferenc Gyurcsány, and whether it finds this right, both legally and morally. That's one thing we didn't find out. Of course, he wanted this kind of thing to be a distraction. Thank you, my time is up. [[The Foreman of Novak: Not a little bit. Very. It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-17-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the Jobbik Group, Mr György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-251	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I wouldn't have said anything, but the President of Novak can't defend himself, because he can't speak to him at the meeting, and you seem to have addressed the words to Mr. Novak. Therefore, I would like to say a few things about this. Congressman Vejkey says that, with Jobbik against immunity, he is against parliamentarism. No, Congressman. You know what we're against? Against privileges. Against the privileges you have as Members of Parliament and not citizens. Why should a Member of Parliament be better than a citizen? The same rights and obligations should apply to everyone in this country. In fact, we say that Members of Parliament, who, by the way, are making laws and who accidentally try to take advantage of these laws, or who are violating and committing lawlessness, will be punished more severely than citizens. Because indeed, if the Member of Parliament does not comply with the laws, then how citizens are expected by Members of Parliament or anyone else to comply with these laws. Then Attila Petneházy said that there was a serious diversion and that they did everything that could be done legally against Ferenc Gyurcsány. Well, let's not joke. It's been said here. The last 25 years have been thanks to you. It is precisely because of this constant washing that this country has been robbed, that Ferenc Gyurcsány can exist, that Tiny Clans can exist in this country. It affected the economy and everything else. If there was accountability here at the time of the so-called regime change, this wouldn't be the case in this country. Then it wouldn't have been possible to sell out that vast state fortune anyway. Compared to its territory, Hungary was a very rich country, since it had huge state assets. This state fortune, as it is, has been squandered, privatized and destroyed. And you don't think Ferenc Gyurcsány was involved in this? You don't think the MSZP was involved in this? The successor party of MSZMP, which said he was the successor party of MSZMP? Was there a miscalculation? Has anyone ever been properly accounted for here? No! Well, don't tell me it's a slip. And let's not go back so far. I'll tell you something else that's your business. When the Jobbik Movement for Hungary submits a legislative amendment proposal that politicians who owe public funds to some party - I am talking specifically about SZDSZ - when SZDSZ owes public funds and has a responsible leader - are responsible? - or a leader who has been involved in these matters that these public funds have still not been accounted for, so long as they do not settle these public funds towards the state, do not run for office in elections, you will vote against this. Well, if they wanted to be accounted for, they would have voted for these things. What would that have meant? That Gábor Fodor, who was involved in the payment of this loan at the time, could not sit here. But he's sitting here. Okay, well, not right now, 'cause he's really not coming in, but he's sitting here. Well, it's gonna come in handy when you need one vote, say, to pass a law. These are the things we're talking about. Well, it does, and it's another very important thing that something is, something exists, but we're not talking about it, you think that problem is gone? I am serious about whether freedom of speech or democracy or anything else, or whether it is not possible for a Member of Parliament to talk about something that exists in the Hungarian Parliament. The Nézőpont Intézet has shown in 2008 that 91 percent of society believes that the word we cannot say here, because of which the President of Novak cannot speak now, does exist. Well, then, can't a congressman talk about it? There's nothing pejorative about it. It was said here many times yesterday because we argued, the term political crime. Well, my fellow Members, does that mean that every politician would be a criminal? I didn't take that word personally when it was said here many times. And I hope you didn't take it personally or anyone else. Take it on who you belong to. But politicians are criminals because there are such things... because what does it mean to be a politician? It means he's committing crimes related to his political career in connection with his political potential that other people don't. So it's typical for the politician to do it. Just because we stick our heads in the sand doesn't mean we can't say it right now? The problem with this country is that there are Democrats so big that there's only one thing that bothers them is democracy. They have such great liberals with their tolerance that the only thing that bothers them is that if someone else has a different opinion, they should be tolerant of them. With us, everything in this country is a little off, that's the big problem. If only we could talk honestly about everything. And it's not the law. Again, this is not the law I have a problem with. He's with one thing, and I hope you believe me that if anyone in this Parliament doesn't want to protect Ferenc Gyurcsány, I am. But here's the point of democracy: I do have a problem with making such a law, such a thing only in connection with Ferenc Gyurcsány. No! Let's do it for everyone, and let's make Ferenc Gyurcsány the first person we start, let's say, counting. But indeed, as has been said here, and if you would have listened to Mr Schiffer's speech, he has given us many examples, let us count COF as well. Let's get everyone who's suspected of having a relationship here with any of the parties that could result in hidden party funding, so let's get that accounted for. Because that's the point. We could start from here to a cleaner Hungary. But, once again, fellow Members, as long as there are no real things to talk about in Parliament... And the other is: I don't really use that word, it can be written around, it can be said, it means the same thing, so why can't it be said, moreover, that the Movement for Jobbik Hungary wasn't the only one saying it. I recommend to all Members, go up and look for them, see the residential forum on which the Gypsy Butter of Borsod was with two people, two people there, I hope it is not a problem to name them, Viktor Orbán and Sándor Pintér, both sitting at the table, and the Gypsy Butter of Borsod used this word. Did he tell you eighty thousand times that he wasn't? And he brought up examples of why he wouldn't be. Did he lie, too? I don't think you can say he's racist. But there is a real problem, and this is the way to express the real problem. But you can call it a cuckoo egg from now on to talk about cuckoo eggs, and that's not a forbidden word. I just don't think it's right. Maybe you think it's okay. Perhaps the time will come when freedom of speech will change, no matter what. [[20.10]] I'm going to tell you honestly, just to show my solidarity with those who are being silenced, I'm going to finish my sentences, and there's ceterum censeo gypsy crime. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-17-252	The truth is, in the meantime, I wanted to tell Congressman not to tempt God. [[György Szilágyi: God strikes!]] So now I'm ruling out Congressman 48 of the Parliamentary Act. § 3 [[György Szilágyi: You didn't warn me!]] the use of a term that is particularly offensive to an ethnic community. Congressman, either you acknowledge or you don't, this exclusion is valid. You have the opportunity to go to the committee responsible and complain about my style of meeting or interpretation. That's possible, but there's no way to discuss it here at the crime scene. Congressman, there is no such thing as today's sitting. [[György Szilágyi: I am honored!]] And I could've ruled out Novak's Foreman when I warned him. Instead, I warned him and thought he would not use that term again in the debate. [[Forebod Novak: You thought wrong! I've used it many times! We're gonna do it again.]] Thank you. A two-minute comment will be made by Congressman Imre Vejkey.
u2015-06-17-253	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, we also have to reject what our colleague Szilágyi said. [[Previous Novak: That's why it was worth pushing the button!]] On the one hand...
u2015-06-17-254	Congressman Novak, you're out of the question. I think it would be better if you turned yourself in a little bit and, say, went outside, didn't bother you with your presence at the meeting, but, of course, I won't be able to speak to you. [[The First of Novak: That's right!]] There's a way to top that. [[The Foreman of Novak: Possibly!]] Go on, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-255	Thank you very much. On the one hand, because talking about political crime is not equivalent to talking about any act of any minority, because being a politician can choose it, but who is born of what is God's job. [[Miklós Soltés applauds.]] The other is that the institution of immunity, ladies and gentlemen, is not a privilege. Like I said, it protects Parliament itself in the first place. In this regard, I would be delighted to see the representatives of Jobbik for an informal meeting with my committee, either at any white table. It is not the subject of the present case that we are talking about immunity, but I would really like to explain my position in more detail on this. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-17-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Gergely Bárándy is next. Here you go.
u2015-06-17-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not want to say anything meaningful to the debate, but to express that the group of the MSZP will support the President's decision in the vote. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-258	Thank you very much. It doesn't have to be confirmed to Parliament, because the law alone gives the President authority in such a case. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: In this case, from a moral point of view.]] Thank you very much. Did anyone else apply for another speech? [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr István Szilárd Németh if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say that not only ex-Nazis are not needed in the Hungarian Parliament, but also neo-Nazis, and no one who pursues any exclusional, stigmatizing behaviour and politics. That is why we have to distance ourselves as clearly as possible and condemn those who brand others with respect to origin and religion, and that is why we do not tolerate and reject Gypsy and Jewishism as strongly as possible within the walls of Parliament, but also in public life. [[György Szilágyi: Who do you mean when you say that? I'm gonna report you. Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Even though you report him, in his opinion, no one can.]] Dear Parliament, Here is what I would like to say about the parliamentary resolution proposal before us. He appeared several times, I don't know how, but obviously, in order to relativity the commission of Ferenc Gyurcsány, his company in some form; I understood that from his closest former party partner, but in the appearance of Jobbik, I didn't quite understand why the matter of accountability had to be brought here. Accounting is a three-tier story, and everyone knows it very well. There's a political part, there's a moral, if you like, part of the disclosure, and if you stop, there's a criminal category in the accounts. Political accountability is usually done in elections, as they did in 2010, and it was done in 2014. Twice, Fidesz-KDNP received two-thirds support from the people, and in both periods, in whatever formations the adherents of the old order tried to come back, they also received rejection. And in both periods and in the two elections, Hungarians rejected both the far left and the extreme right-wing policies. [[Ancestors of Novak: Tapolca, too?]] So I think that accountability has also happened to people in the past, and the future has been determined by this decision. That's what we call political accountability. And moral accountability was as we said. We have collected all the documents, all the information, all the data that we thought would lead us to believe that if we put it to justice, it would lead to judicial judgments, or, if not yet, to judicial judgments, but at least prosecutions in which, if criminal offences stop, those who may have committed a crime, those who have been involved in certain processes, will be punished. Civil democracies are based on the principle of power-sharing. Legislation, exercise of power, government and court, if you will, the justice system is separated from each other. The government and parliament must have no influence, let alone no influence, nor can - and that is right - on the independent court. It is another question of what judgments the courts make, whether we are satisfied with it or not, but the judgments of the court, I have heard that everyone here in Parliament has accepted it. Even if, among other things, I think of a recent judgment - the Bisku judgment - some of us cannot accept it at all, we cannot digest it, but I think that the court's decision is legally binding on us. In relation to the concrete parliamentary decision proposal, several people complained that it was limited to the mandate of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Altus, and to any party funding that might arise here. It is not true, because if you look at what we call on the government and what we ask the government to do, then the second sentence says that the government examines the conflict of interest rules concerning the financing of Members of Parliament - plural number - and political parties - plural number. In addition, we are asking the government to investigate not only in the present, but there is also a preventive purpose for this parliamentary decision proposal, if you will, for the future to examine each case and make the right decision, whether at government level or at legislative level, to refer it back to the Hungarian Parliament. With all due respect, once again, in this unique case, in which the European Union has entrusted one of the Presidents of the Hungarian Party, the former Prime Minister, and in addition, the company of the Prime Minister who forged the country's report in 2006, forgered the data that had been transmitted to the European Union, which adds to the problem, has entrusted the company of the President of one of the small left-wing parties to examine the spending of EU funds coming to our country and how it is done. Plus, it's worth a lot of money, 5 million euros, 1500 million forints. So this is a unique case. This unique case led to it, because in this individual case, who would have made a decision, could have stopped it, as the former Bulgarian Prime Minister in the international space is an example, but it did not happen, which is why he came to Parliament, from this unique case we would like to draw general and preventively appropriate conclusions and make appropriate decisions and ask the government to do so. Therefore, with great respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to consider supporting this Parliamentary resolution proposal. Thank you very much, Mr President, for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[20.20]]
u2015-06-17-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that it is possible to submit amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. Next up is the 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the operation and support of civil society organisations. Act CLXXXI of 2011 on the judicial records of civil society organisations and related procedural rules. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Szilárd István Németh Fideszes' own motion T/5128. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Szilárd István Németh, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The bill that I have tabled has also come to the table on the basis of an individual case, and I wished to present to the honourable Parliament generally applicable rules in this regard, and I would ask you to support these rules and new regulations which I have put forward. The essence of this is that if the founders cannot be found or found in some form at public benefit foundations, then from the practice that characterizes the survival of these public benefit foundations today, we should be able to step out a little, bring local governments, local authorities into this task provision, and create the possibility that, if there is a specific task in the provision of municipal tasks with regard to the public benefit foundation, the court should, within 6 months, involve the local authority in the process of naming the municipality who exercises the rights of founder in this public benefit foundation. There are two very important restrictions, and on the one hand, we do not want to eliminate the conflict of interest that would mean the exercise of the rights of the municipalities for this purpose, so the municipality will not be the practitioner of the founding rights, but the municipality will be able to entrust it to the municipality-owned company of 100%. On the other hand, the law does not intend to exercise retroactive effect, so where the law has already been assigned to such public foundations, whether for the Board or for a third party, I do not wish to modify this. I would ask the honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to support my proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-17-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Miklós Soltész asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-17-263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear rapporteur, The proposal you have presented will certainly serve the civilian life, not only the civilian life, but also the area that is also belonging to the municipalities. It is therefore necessary to say that the government is not only in favour of civil society organisations in particular, but also particularly thanks and considers it important for the amendments which will still be made before Parliament. That's why I thank you for your work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-17-264	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-265	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State either doesn't know what's going on, or he's very quiet about it. Because of this proposal... [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: The latter.]] - the latter, I think, has nothing to do with the civilian sphere and the foundations in general. There is nothing more to it than that very many have quoted some of the statements made by János Lázár; it is now customary to say that in connection with Lazarus's speech in autumn, for example, I would quote another one here, I believe, that this was not here at the plenary session today, that we are living in a post-cademic culture of interest. Well, it seems that this proposal is similar to that of János Lázár, because it speaks of nothing else - and my colleague, Szilárd Németh, has also listened to this - that he has not managed to destroy and steal the Csepel Workers' Home or the Workers' Home Foundation so far, and he will now succeed in this way. I would like to read a quote from an open letter from President József Nagy, who wrote this in March 2015, which can be found on the Foundation's website, which is what this presentation is about. So I quote: During the reign of former mayor Szilárd Németh, he wanted to obtain legal founding rights from the existing founders. The court rejected their initiative. Then, in their joint application with István Vida, the current board and supervisory board were asked to be dissolved in order to give them the right of nomination for the new members. The Metropolitan Court also rejected this attempt. The current mayor seemed more democratic, tried to obtain the foundation for HUF 30 million, as the conditions were the following: two main delegation to the three-person supervisory board and two main members to the board of trustees of the foundation. This proposal is also contrary to the relevant part of the civil code. Those who would like to be sent to us were: Szilárd Németh, former mayor, current Member of Parliament, member of the Supervisory Board, from whom we received only abuse and threats during the mayor's time, Sára Dobos, Szilárd Németh, László Süle, new director of one of the local government's companies, István Vida, publisher of the Csepel Reporter, who has been publishing offensive articles about us for years. That is why the board of trustees unanimously decided that it would be unacceptable because of the preservation of the independence of the Csepel citizens and the foundation and, of course, because of its entry into law. By the way, Csepelen is well-known, but it will obviously be spoken of by my colleague, Szabolcs Szabó, who defeats and beats the author in Csepel, who may know this matter better than I, but I would like to quote one more thing about it. There was a debate by the Csepel Council of Representatives on a working home on 29 January 2015 from the minutes of the assembly board, where Lénárd Borbély, mayor of the district, said, and I would quote: "If this does not work, we have a promise that it will be resolved in a different way. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, if anything is true, one of the processes is true of what the Prime Minister's Minister, János Lázár, said was that we live in a post-Cadár culture, and that is what it is. Probably my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, who has failed to obtain this institution or foundation in any other way, has now tabled an amendment which, by the way, changes the rules on foundations in general, but it is nothing more than a personalised legislation, once again a force of government revenge. That's the thing, that's the truth. I think that it is not worth talking about, and it is not worth saying anything else, that there is absolutely no professional background to this proposal, because there is no such thing. The only background to this is to carry out the revenge that Szilárd Németh has not yet been able to do to obtain this foundation, which the Csepel Fidesz considers to be a left-wing citadel. Whether it's true or not, it doesn't matter in that sense. [[István Szávay: True, by the way.]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not with a good heart that we can contribute to this, and I must say that such methods are the worst times, and that it is the task of a Member of Parliament and a parliamentary group to resist such proposals with fire and iron as they can. Thank you very much. [[20.30]]
u2015-06-17-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Szávay. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-267	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the civil sector is here before us, so it is worth talking about the government's civil policy so far, so let me use the opportunity to talk about the operation of its civil support system and the problems that this bill does not offer a solution to, but it could have done so if it had been the intention. What are these problems? Over the last five years, we have seen that the Orbán government has no clear concept of civil society organisations in Hungary, which often carry out public or municipal tasks, and which are useful in addition to the debate. As a long-term and otherwise successful plan, full orangeification could only be mentioned, according to which the government has completely politicised this sphere, contrary to the previously announced high principles, and for this the public tender funds, the offers of state-owned companies and, where appropriate, the public administration have also been brazenly used. Their new victory in 2014 was, in effect, a crusade against everything that was really civilian, i.e. it remained independent of the government, in the wake of the fight against foreign-funded anti-government organizations. Organisations that do not please you, who are not friends with the Fidesz constituency presidents, are now starting with the calmness of those who don't stand a chance at applying for the National Cooperation Fund, which distributes the public resources of the civil sector, while organisations close to the government can make millions of money on them. It is well situated at the government, and therefore the Civic Alliance Forum, which organises peace processes, has also flourished, which a few days ago issued a scandalous statement on the control of immigration, which, on the other hand, is absolutely necessary, which goes beyond the revolting nature of the government that wants to deal with the problem with its Hungarian-language, silly posters. Orange organisations are also thoroughly fed by state-owned companies. It is enough to refer here only to the recapitalisation of the Children's Living Well Foundation before the 2014 elections by Zsuzsa Hegedűs, the prime minister's favorite advisor, who advertises potential enhancers for weeks on his hacked website. In 2013 and 2014, among others, the companies of the MÁV group, 17 out of 23 regional Volán companies, Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt., Szerencség Zrt., the Hungarian Development Bank suddenly transferred a lot of money. In reply to my written question at the time, the competent minister stated that these were voluntary offers of workers, but soon after the Alfa News portal found out that in fact these funds were withdrawn from the cafeteria of workers who had been working for a minimum wage. For example, the foundation spent these grants on day-old chicks brought from France for 160 million forints, instead of supporting Hungarian farmers; in May this year, it distributed pigs to usury gypsies arriving with Audi - who, Mr President, obviously were not criminals. No wonder you failed to comply with your legal obligation and illegally reported on your activities for years, including your spending. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, also filed a complaint in this case, which, oddly, was rejected by the competent authority on grounds of lack of criminal activity. But there are also huge problems in other parts of the operation of the Hungarian civil sector. From the rumours of his career, civil workers have been told for a long time that the government is planning to eliminate the system of 1 percent available for social and ecclesiastical purposes. However, when I asked the Ministry of National Economy about this last November, the Secretary of State Tállai was only willing to reply that the wallet did not have such plans. In our view, these subsidies should not be taken away, but rather tightened up the control mechanisms if our problem is that many people actually abuse well-intentioned offerings. By the way, I've been waiting for the reassuring no answer, Mr. Secretary. And if it is 1 percent: it should also be dealt with, and rather a legislative amendment should be initiated in this case, so that the state does not swallow 1+1 percent of the offers made by those who paid their personal income tax late, since this is a disproportionate punishment not for the taxpayer, but for the beneficiary, i.e. the civilians. Only last year 30,000 people lost their offer of more than 130 million forints, taking into account the steadily decreasing support of the civil sector, this is a very significant amount. You have also reduced the budget support of the National Cooperation Fund, which is 5.4 this year, but next year it will only be available for HUF 4.8 billion. To what extent, I would like to point out that the many cursed and otherwise damned governments of Gyurcsány and Bajnai have spent double on the support of civilians, such as the national two thirds, which are supposed to be particularly supportive of communities and civil self-organizations. Every year, I have tabled an amendment to the budget, but Fidesz has never supported an increase in the amount allocated to civilians. And speaking of NEA, it's worth saying a few words about the operation of the organization. We have a lot of complaints about the fact that the fund's money cannot be planned at all, because the applications are written out in a mess. I think that anyone who has ever been on the civilian side should know exactly what insecurity this can be, and, where appropriate, the inability of great programs and the lack of vision of important tasks can result. This should therefore be ensured that these proposals are always written out at the same time and as soon as possible, thereby ensuring the better functioning of the civil sector. This year, only in these days will applicants be notified of the results and, as we know, it is the middle of June. That the system worked significantly more intensively last year, since payments were already in progress at the beginning of April, the date of the parliamentary elections. The process of payments is therefore, for some reason, incomprehensiblely towed and slow. Even if criticism happens in time, the organisation often sees money from it only at the end of summer, despite the fact that everyone who has ever organised an event knows that the vast majority of these programmes will take place in the summer. In this regard, we also know that previously it was too big, and now the Human Resources Support Directorate is too small, so perhaps we should consider some kind of expansion in terms of both material and human resources, so that we do not delay payments, let us consider programmes. But the lack of a sufficient number of employees also causes problems elsewhere. Civil society organisations are registered and kept and updated by the competent courts, which, according to current experience, is beyond their capabilities and resources. The practice of the National Court of Justice to publish annual reports sent by various civil society organisations, for example, which are particularly scandalous, despite its statutory duty, is several months late, while not complying with legal deadlines. I find it unacceptable in a technical and IT environment of the century. This is also linked to the fact that the administration of the transfer of individual court orders on the birosag.hu website has been delayed for several weeks. But I have also heard of such a hair-frighting case that it was three quarters of a year late to register a new civil society agency officer due to the slowness of the competent courts. Maybe we should deal with this with the civilians. Of course, we are aware that the employees of the competent department of OBH and the courts have a lot of extra work to do with digitization and criticism of the documents received, and we also know that this is why the various papers are in the mountains. However, it is not possible to put up with the slowness of the OBH and the courts, but to move further support here, both in terms of human resources and in terms of material resources. However, at the time when I asked a written question about this, you were not even willing to tell me, Mr Secretary of State, how many civil society organisations have fallen from this source, rather than having been informed of how the government would still want to help make these proceedings smoother. Maybe that's what this amendment of the law is about. The bill before us could therefore have solved a number of these problems instead of trying to ruin a good practice that has worked so far. In addition, he wishes to do so neither in good intentions, but in purely selfish and individual party interests, to which, in a scandalous way, the competent wallet, you, Secretary of State, also gives your assistance. What is it, then? Here the joke was already shot before me, but if the founder of a foundation dies or, in the case of a legal person, dies without successor and before that, no one is appointed as the founder's practitioner, then the competent court shall have the right to appoint a new founder's right holder. In practice, this has worked so far in a way that is clear, because we did not discuss this because the determining court asks the board of trustees, and, in their opinion, practically by adopting it, appoints the future practitioner of the founding rights, who is likely to continue to operate the organization in accordance with the spirit of the original founder. This practice would be changed by the bill before us by granting the local government of the seat of the organisation the right to request a 100% municipal-owned company to exercise the founding rights in the event of the death or termination of the founder. By doing so, the founding rights of a number of civil society organisations would be transferred from the party-independent court or from the new founder appointed by them on the basis of the Board of Trustee's proposal to the majority of local government companies which are otherwise under fidesz control, which is completely contrary to the original founders' intention, and therefore totally unacceptable to us, in addition to being unnecessary and particularly harmful. [[20.40]] Since I have an experience of misconception when a major law is opened simply because of one or a few points, I assumed that we were once again talking about some sort of Fidesz party interest, possibly customized legislation, and the saddest thing about it is that, as has already been said here, we were not wrong, unfortunately. It wasn't too hard for us to find out who my fellow Member who had made the motion wanted to regulate. The sole purpose of this bill is to allow Szilárd Németh and the Fidesz of Csepel to lay hands on the local Workers' Home Foundation, the cultural house maintained by the foundation and its beautiful theatre hall. The founder's rights and the power over the board as mayor in recent years have been sought by Congressman Németh on several occasions, and this has failed, therefore the bill before us - for this and for nothing else. Ladies and gentlemen, It is, therefore, that Szilárd Németh intends to take revenge with this bill on the Unobserved Labour Home Foundation. Let us add that the foundation for the community cooperation and the cultural house of the iron factory workers was established in the early 1990s by former State Secretary Dezső Avarkeszi and Gyula Podolák former MSZP Members of Parliament [[Németh Szilárd István: György!]] They rescued it for their friends of principle - yes, I know, Congressman, I know - and make no mistake, and we do not consider this acceptable, not at all. But I don't know if that's how you want to settle this. And what's the most outrageous and unspeakable of all this? At first reading, I wondered why the proposal had retroactive effect, i.e. why it would remove the right to appoint a person exercising founding rights from the court even if it had already granted those rights to someone. Well, it's very simple, because it was established at the Labour Home Foundation in 2013, so it's the only way that Fidesz can get the Work Home if the right of appointment is revoked. I find it unacceptable and outrageous that, while civil law is bleeding from many wounds, such an unprofessional bill motivated by such an individual interest comes before the House at an extraordinary time, which is intended solely to satisfy the petty vengeance of a fidesz Member and, if adopted, would be particularly bad for the civilian sphere. We right-handers obviously condemn and have always condemned robbery privatisation, the conversion of political power into economic power, and therefore, in principle, we support the recovery of the wealth that has been saved and saved; let me make this clear. However, we can only reject and condemn the use of the Hungarian Parliament in self-interests, personalised legislation and brazen and arrogant abuse of power. I think that this is why you should not have put this proposal before this House. You, Secretary of State, should not support this. But if you have already allowed him to come here, then at least we could say and express our opinion on the actual problems and shortcomings of the current operation of the Hungarian civil sector. Jobbik wants a civil society world in Hungary that is truly merit-based, transparent and policy-free. The kind of material, human and technical resources that you have at your disposal in order to carry out your activities in accordance with your objectives with the greatest possible efficiency, honestly, in order to promote the growth of smaller and larger communities. If you had submitted amendments to the Civil Code to this end, we would have been happy to support this. However, this proposal is not about that at all, and Jobbik will certainly not vote for it. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-17-268	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-06-17-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We have come to a similar conclusion as my fellow opposition Members. This proposal appears to be a technical amendment to the founding rights of public benefit foundations, in fact, according to information from the locals, Fidesz is trying to legislate another acquisition of prey. So far, public benefit foundations carrying out municipal tasks have had the right to designate in their founding declaration who can continue to exercise the founding rights if this is required by the death of the founder or by other inability to exercise the founding rights. If the designation has not taken place in the articles of association, the Board may have exercised these rights. It is proposed that, from now on, in the case of public-use foundations which have remained without founding and the foundation performs municipal tasks, the headquarters body of representatives may confer on the founding rights a company wholly owned by the municipality. The practice of the Board of Governors, which was proposed by the majority of the governments against the old Ptk., still makes sense, since it often offered a simpler way instead of a difficult court solution. At the same time, this proposal makes no sense, as it separates public benefit foundations for municipal tasks from other public benefit foundations. This does not solve any problems in a municipal system where access to public services is increasingly unfair, in which the provision of public services has become unsustainable and income differences between municipalities have continued to increase. This proposal is only good for some Fidesz local government-owned companies to swell even more, thereby enriching the municipality, while most municipalities do not even have enough resources to carry out their basic tasks. Therefore, we do not support the proposal not only because there is no provision for reducing bureaucracy or for the sustainability of the local government system, or because we do not see reason to derogate from the Ptk. rewritten by the current governing parties, but also because we believe that this is part of Szilárd Németh's petty vendetta. This law serves the personal interests of the Fidesz representative, who has failed in Csepel, who has been on the list. This law is good for nothing but for Szilárd Németh to try to deal with his old enemy, the Csepel Workers' Home. This institution is not owned by a local government, it is operated by a public benefit foundation. The working home was built from the sources of the Social Democratic Party and trade unions. Szilárd Németh has always referred to the accusation of lack of transparency against the Csepel Workers' Home, even though there is also a municipal delegate in the Supervisory Board. But the series of attacks on the working home were not successful, so Szilárd Németh tried to launch another attack on a district institution in the Parliament, which existed since the 20s. We can say that Fidesz again confuses legislation with lobbying and public interest with individual interests. Szilárd Németh, as legislator, does not see how he is able to regulate the exercise of the rights of founders of public-use foundations with the least possible bureaucratic obstacles and time constraints, but he looks at how he can subordinate his legislative powers to his own petty power interests. With the support of this proposal, the majority of governments admit to legislating not for municipalities and public benefit foundations, but for their personal positions in power. The LMP won't assist. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-17-270	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak for the first independent Members. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Honestly, I'm very sad for two reasons. One is that we have another proposal before us in plenary that has tried to amend a law in a specific case. The Hungarian law is now full of all kinds of exceptions, special laws, and I think that this is not taking Hungary in the right direction. For example, in connection with this issue, which some of my fellow Members have already mentioned - Szilárd Németh also said very frankly in his exposé - that this is a proposal for an amendment to an individual case. Did anyone assess how many foundations could be affected at all, which, under the influence of the law, would suffer any change? [[20.50]] I think it is not, because it is quite clear that we are talking about dealing with a specific case by amending legislation, so that is one of the reasons why I am sad. The other reason is obviously that we are both living in Csepel as a Csepel, and it is not good for either of us to have the debate about Csepel in this context in the House, how much better it would be if we talked only and only about a positive case. There are many people here who have gone into the details, and I really don't want to repeat it, just so that from Csepel it doesn't happen to remain in the memory of people who may be following the broadcast on the Internet. My fellow opposition Members have made it clear what is behind this issue. For an inexplicable reason, Fidesz in Csepel considers the working home to be a kind of communist nest, and this is the result of this problem, and since they have not come to grips with other solutions - unfortunately, the negotiation was less part of this toolbox - we have now come to the point of having such a unique, ad hoc amendment before the House. I have already recommended this to a Member, and I have also spoken to Lenárd Borbély about this in a few sentences, that I would be very happy to talk to him and help if there are any cases. In this case, too, I can offer to sit down - I will try to help you if you wish - with representatives of the Labour Home Foundation and try to find a compromise solution and let us leave this amendment to the law. I know that this is not a simple process, the positions in Csepel have been very stiff, it is difficult to come back from here, it is quite clear, regardless of which I am naive, and I think that if not in a short time, but perhaps we could find a solution that would suit everyone and not try to resolve this situation by force with such a change of law. I would like to talk about one thing in a bit more detail, perhaps, about the working home itself, because if someone is following the debate, then it may not be quite clear to him what the point of the problem is. What you need to know about the working home, which, by the way, may be my fellow Member Savay here, is that he has a very nice Art Nouveau, otherwise protected theater, the working home itself has never actually been owned by a local government. At the time, even after World War I, the Social Democratic Party, various trade unions and citizens, were made up of donations and offerings from trade union members, and small brick tickets could be purchased. This was a perfectly normal, normal thing to do in the case of trade union movements, so this was not a unique case in Csepel, so many times the trade unions created the place for themselves, the community space where they could organize meetings, cultural events. It is very interesting that even in the early 1920s, when the Csepel Workers' Home opened its doors, the village administration of Csepel had already tried to get inside the estate. Then let's say, by withdrawing the movie license and using all kinds of housing licensing procedures, he tried to own this workhouse, only the workers were taking themselves, exiting, surrounded by live chains, and therefore there was no result. After that, the village of Csepel built its own cultural home, and although it no longer exists, it was bombed during World War II, but otherwise later it was built in cultural homes, cultural houses, and there are still municipal-owned cultural institutions. It is therefore not understandable why it is so important for the city's administration to use its force to try to bring this institution into municipal power with such a bill. Finally, a little bit more about his history, so that you can fully understand it. This was not possible between the two world wars, and after the Second World War, this question was not raised, and after 69, it became state property, and the Csepel Works became the manager of the working home itself. After all, shortly before the change of regime, in 1989, Csepel became a communal company, who became the owner, and then they wondered how to deal with the situation that was created by the changing legislation, and that is why the solution was to create a foundation. It was created by ten companies in Csepel, and they practically took the Csepel Workers' Home into the foundation as property, so the building itself. This was also registered in 1992 by the court, and from then on the foundation is its operator. Here is a kind of division compared to, or compared to, such cultural institutions as trade unions or former trade unions in Budapest, because there was a cultural institution that came to the municipalities, because the trade unions were in agreement with them at the time, which was a good solution. Here special is owned by the foundation, and since then, the working home itself has fulfilled its function. Now, of course, it is possible to argue for a long time whether there are enough programs there, but I do not believe that it is our job, and I do not believe that the Hungarian Parliament should deal with it, the Csepel Workers' Home will carry out its task. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Indeed, as a public benefit foundation, it performs tasks that the law defines as a municipal task. By the way, this was acknowledged by the former city leaders before 2010, as they supported the operation of the Csepel Workers' Home, which, by the way, still generates the bulk of its income from its own income, and a small part of it is obtained from the tender in tenders issued to such regional cultural institutions. This is how we get to 2010 when there is a certain contrast between the management of the city in Csepel and the working home, and from this point on, the positions become completely rigid, and this leads us to the fact that, indeed, as Gergely Bárándy mentioned earlier, the Csepel City Administration has actually reached the point of even gently blackmailing the Csepel Workers' Home. I do not think this is a good solution, and I do not think it is a good solution, and I stress once again that the Member is trying to deal with it with such an amendment. I'm telling you, I can only confirm once again that if I have to, and if I have to, I would be very happy to try to convey it to you. Let's talk about this and find a solution that suits everyone. I do not think that a European rule of law solution, with such a case-by-case amendment of the law, is trying to effectively reclaim the cultural house and thus reach into the composition of management, it is certain that it will further enhance the war situation that unfortunately remains in the Csepel public life to this day. I think it would be much better if we tried to refine this very rigid, very hard party-based division somehow nicely, because sooner or later, unfortunately, this will lead to the permanent deterioration of the Csepel public life, and I would very much like to avoid it, and I assume that Congressman will also be a partner in this future. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-17-272	Welcome, fellow Members. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see any intention of commenting, so the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh to respond to what has been said. [[21.00]]
u2015-06-17-273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I could also say that I thank you for the comments, and I expected this, which I expected, on the one hand, was driven by a great deal of lack of information, lack of knowledge, and, on the other hand, I think that it was the political will of the day. For the immaculate conception and the civility of the working home, allow a quote from the book published by former director Tibor Drucker in 1964 on the Csepel Workers' Home. I could quote more, but I think the most talkative quote is allowed to tell you. In addition to the movement work, close to it was the spiritual center of the work in the home. Here was the Csepel General Worker Song, the Labor Player's Vigalmi Guard, the General Worker Library, which played a significant role in educating the workers. Here was the base of the Tourist Association of Nature Friends, the Esperantist Movement, the Association of Child Friends and the Anti-Alcoholic Labour Movement, which were the front organs of the illegal class struggle. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: During this period, the party center was in the House of Representatives, just where your office is.]] So much for conception and what happened. With great respect, I would like to draw Szabolcs Szabó's attention to the fact that, in a year and a half he has spent in Csepel, he may not be fully familiar with Csepel's story, and he may not fully understand what happened there. I've lived there for 51 years. [[Attila Mesterházy: You've finally been in the right place.]] And I was there in the area of the change of regime. Where what happened wasn't what you said, what you quoted here, but what happened was something else. The comrades failed the elections in 90, both at the parliamentary level, an MDF and a SZDSZ representative entered the parliament, and they failed the municipal elections in the autumn. A communist and a crypt-communist from the 35 members of the body of representatives came into the system, all the others were given by SZDSZ, Fidesz, MDF, Independent Little Farmers' Party, Christian Democratic People's Party and an independent. [[Attila Mesterházy: Fidesz was here as a liberal party.]] Well, respectfully, you can yell, but it's not worth it. After what happened was that they failed the competition in the political arena, it is obvious that they cannot be there overnight in a factory as big as the trust of the Csepel Works - by the way, those ten companies, not ten of these fictional companies, threw the Csepel Workers' Home together, but the ten most important companies of the trust, where the then party secretaries simply jumped into the CEO's seats because they decided there, in those places, that they could do this. A company has been created that has decided on all of the Csepel Works companies on the one hand; that is why Csepel Works are today, among other things, former Csepel Works, or, if you will, more than 800 owners of Weiss Manfréd Works. It is therefore not possible to set up an industrial park there today, which would require the abolition of different ownership conditions. So it's all been robbed, if you like, it's all been blown away, and it's practically ruined, where the workers' work was completely taken away. That's what happened. But since there are other scenes in life, there were three more important scenes in life. One is culture. This is what the Csepel Workers' Home Foundation was created for, which was completely occupied and controlled by them. And that's what Csepel SC, the Csepel Sports Club Foundation was created for, which is ditto. You were right to say the names were just wrong, and my good fellow Member wasn't that deep on the subject. One was supervised by George Podolak, the other by Dezső Avarkesi. [[István Szávay's intervention.]] He didn't say that because you said the wrong names, but whatever. Dezső Avarkeszi ruled in the Csepel Workers' Home, while György Podolak ruled in the Csepel SC. Then there was another very important area, health care. They tried to steal this, too. Here, fortunately, the doctors resisted. This health centre could be stolen - this Gate II, by the way, the Csepelians know what I'm talking about - when in 94 the people with whom they cried back the 3.60 bread, who gave the biggest slap to the 3.60 bread, brought them back into political power again. The clinic at Gate II was immediately sold, where, by the way, it was probably one of Hungary's most modern work health centers, according to that age. Well, that's pretty much the beginning of the story. But there's something else we can compare, the parallel run of the Csepel SC Foundation and the Csepel Workers' Home Foundation. In 2005, the Csepel SC Foundation - there was no one crying, there were no one here who would have spoken - György Podolak with one pen stroke - I can justify what I am talking about, and if they go into court, they will see the documents - he gave all the property rights to an offshore company. With all the grooming, all the agreement, without everything, with a simple decision, he made the ten companies that were still regent at the time to sign this right... By the way, at the time I was a sports councilman at the time, and I prepared it in the municipality of Csepel - you should know, we are talking about 2005, we were talking about 2004-2005, then there were five Fidesz representatives in the municipality of Csepel; so much for the Fidesz invasion - I wanted the Csepel municipality to own, own public property or, if not, at least the founder's rights to be transferred to the municipality of Csepel. That was a good ten years ago, and I would like to point out once again that we didn't even have a chance to be the mayor of Csepel at any time, or the Fidesz majority in Csepel, but we would have seen it as secure. That didn't work. The court denied the entry twice. Twice. Then, for some reason, a college of the Supreme Court decided that this entry could be made, and it was made in 2006, and today Csepel SC is as it is. It's practically owned by an offshore company because the offshore company has the founding rights. Period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, Good afternoon. Comrades crawled out of the board and the board of directors, let it happen. That's not what happened here. It's a little bit of a shift here, and somehow they figured they'd be the mayor in eternal life, by the way, they'd be the mayor, they'd be the majority. That's not how it happened in 2010. In 2010, I made it clear, in my inauguration speech, which I was holding in the working home, that I would like the working home to be held in public property, or at least the elected body of representatives entrusted by people with public trust to decide their fate. That's what I represented, the same as I did about Csepel SC, by the way. And indeed, my dear fellow Member, I have conducted a lot of negotiations on this matter, not one, but a lot. I've offered you a lot of opportunities, I'd have expected a lot of opportunities. But the possibility that the municipality of Csepel will continue to finance the operation of the working home with HUF 30-40-50 million, and, by the way, it has no idea what is happening there, who will be contracted, what contract, who will be paid, how many people are working in this system, I think that we cannot maintain it, and I feel that this is an unsustainable state. It was from here that in 2012, on the 300th anniversary of Csepel's reconstruction, I offered the opportunity for the local government company to take over this foundation and the founding rights. Siemens, as one of the founders who still existed, signed the contract with the municipality in solemn terms; the Csepel Metal Works - which is in liquidation and has been in the hands of an insolvencyist named Megay Oktáv - have been in liquidation for years; it would also be worth looking into, well, anyway - they did not. And that's how the court got the founding right. I don't think there's a good place in the court for founding rights, because the court doesn't have a clue. Anyone with a view is the local government in Csepel. The municipality of Csepel is not my trust, but not yours, but the people of Csepel. Every five years, people in Csepel decide who they want to see. I like to see how I can say that luck and political life can change. So no one thought in 2006 that in 2010 there would be a Fidesz municipality. I do not think that in 2015 it can be predicted who will be chosen by the Csepelians in 2019. But let the fate of this institution be taken care of by the people of Csepel, by the way. It's very simple. And there is one more thing that I think is the basis for the fact that I have been able to submit this bill, and because it is an individual case, but on the basis of this individual case, many cases will be resolved with this bill, because I would like to draw attention to it, this is not a lex worker's home, but in many cases this bill can be used to correct things. [[21.10]] There was an MDF headquarters in Csepel, which the comrades in '90 with the then MDF, which gained power there, were also thrown together with a small dog. This MDF headquarters is located in Csepel at the water tower at the HÉV terminal. This included the then Metropolitan Municipality, the outgoing council president of Csepel at that time - I am talking about Ferenc Orosz, who later managed the district for 20 years - and they played the whole thing over to the MDF. The MDF was long gone, but there was still an MDF headquarters in Csepel. So I had to fight the various bureaucrats of the City Council for three years so that the Csepel municipality could get this and use it for what you see every day. A busted, broken, stolen building turned into a beautiful retirement club, where every night there's a house full of at least 100-150 pensioners having fun every night, at least 100-150 pensioners spending their evening peacefully, in love, and I think a little bit built. That's the thing. So this is what I can promise you, that if the bill is adopted - I will not dwell on it in this regard - then it is clear that the working home will come to a new perspective. [[István Szávay: But the working home is not the only civil society organisation in this country!]] This law is not about civil society organisations, Congressman, before you completely misunderstand this story here, but, once again, we want to remedy a unique case... [[István Szávay: This is not a unique case at all, Congressman.]] We would like to give the municipalities - the municipalities that are elected by the citizens, and they are entirely legitimate - the opportunity to make use of it if they undertake to do so. The municipality may not change the objectives of this foundation. So you can't run a brokerage center there anymore. We must continue to meet the goals set by the founders at the time. I think that this legislation is a guarantee in its entirety that the Csepel Workers' Home and those public benefit foundations that maintain similar cultural institutions or other, don't give up God, social institutions, will bring these institutions to a new perspective in cooperation with the local government. That's why I put in this bill. If you will, this bill was an ultima ratio, Congressman, so there was no other option here. I didn't want to be dealt with by law. It is clear that we have tried everything to cooperate between the municipality and the foundation. The foundation ruled out the municipality in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-17-274	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. It follows from the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport and the 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the operation and support of civil society organisations. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Member Erik Bánki's own motion is T/5143. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-17-275	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the late date, I would like to briefly sum up the content of my motion, which contains, in particular, technical amendments that would adapt domestic legislation to practical life and international rules. In fact, on three points, my proposal would amend the current law. The first and most important part of this is, perhaps from a technical point of view, to remove the kind of obligation that requires the contractual relationship of amateur athletes to participate in sports events and to play competitively in their own sports club. The point of the proposal is that, contrary to previous practice, a member of an association would be sufficient from this point forward to enable an athlete to prove himself fit for sport and to play sports in a competitive system or even in the context of international competition. Of course, I do not think that the sports associations should not leave the possibility that they should be free to decide for themselves whether they require their own athletes to have amateur contracts, but by law they would not be obliged to do so. Today's practice also shows that UEFA and FIFA do not recognise amateur contracts as contracts in the field of football. For them, the contract is a professional contract, which connects a player to his club and creates the opportunity to participate in a competition system. In this way, Hungarian amateur contracts are not recognised by these international organisations. Nevertheless, each year these contracts have to be re-established, which means that, in the case of a replacement academy, it requires the conclusion of 350-400 contracts on 1 July of each year, which does not, in fact, oblige these athletes to do anything, since these contracts can be terminated at any time, there is no consequence, since this contract cannot provide for, for example, a payment or any remuneration. The other proposal for amendment of this bill concerns amateur athletes who are not members of associations or who do not have a contract to bind them to a sports organisation. In this case, you can obtain your competition license from the national sports association to verify your competition license and this will ensure that you have an athlete's status. The third is also essentially a technical amendment, which concerns sports organisations. Up to now, national professional associations have always had to approve the conclusion of contracts for the conclusion of advertising contracts or for the sale of broadcasting rights by the general meeting. This would be mitigated by the legislation, in the sense that the general assemblies could further delegate this decision competence to the chair of the sports associations, which does not, of course, mean that the conclusion of these contracts would be excluded from the decision of the general assembly, because once there is a general meeting every year and every year before the general assembly the Presidency is obliged to report on the activities of the previous year, as appropriate, the general assembly shall be regularly informed by the Presidency of the contracts it concluded during the year, but this does not mean that a general meeting should be convened during the year only for the conclusion of such a contract. Those who have ever been members of the chairmanship of sports associations or sat as delegates to the general assembly of national professional associations know precisely that it is not so easy to convene such assemblies. It is also often difficult to convene annual general meetings, even if it is necessary to convene such a general meeting during the year for the approval of a contract. I think that this regulatory facilitation is, in the first place, easier for the functioning of the sports associations; it does not mean at all that this would affect transparency in any way, since, as I said, every year every Presidency is obliged to report before the general assembly on its activities for the previous year. Accordingly, if it had not done so before - but the practice does not show that any such contract would otherwise not have been informed by the relevant professional association to the clubs concerned - it is still required to report this every year at the general meeting. Therefore, three such amendments are contained in the current legislation. I think that these amendments have nothing to do with making it more difficult to operate. Its aim is specifically to provide administrative facilitation for the functioning of sports associations and their presidencies. I call on the Members of Parliament, the honourable groups, to support this motion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[21.20]]
u2015-06-17-276	I ask whether István Simicskó, State Secretary, wishes to comment on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2015-06-17-277	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The current amendment to the Act I on Sport of 2004 on the agenda of this House, as Mr Bánki said on behalf of Mr Erik, indeed clarifies the rules on the conclusion of an amateur sports contract. Indeed, as has been said, only in the case of MLSZ, the clubs and MLSZ have to review about 200,000 amateur sports contracts for Hungarian football players each year. This is an incredible amount of administrative burden. We would like to exempt or, in our view, exempt from this, Mr Bánki Erik from the professional association of sports with his proposal, which is a legitimate claim. On the other hand, national sports associations, as civil society organisations, make the conclusion of contracts for the exploitation of so-called property rights which fall within the competence of the professional association as a beneficiary more flexible. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that the trend in modern sport processes is to adapt to the rules of international alliances, to a kind of harmonisation and to promote the business character of sport. These processes justify, on the one hand, the constant follow-up of current trends in domestic and international rules on sport, and, on the other hand, the smoother and faster settlement of business-related economic processes related to sport, the necessary decisions can follow the market processes. To this end, the amendment of the law before this House is fundamentally supported by the sports government. At the same time, when adopting the bill, we consider it necessary to emphasise the sector neutrality with emphasis on the sport approach in relation to the highest level of sport legislation. To this end, we support the adoption of the bill by means of an amendment which, for all sports associations, maintains as a consistent rule for the future, the legal relationship between the parties as an amateur sports contract for all sports organisations, including sports schools and foundations for the development of replacement training, as the basis for the settlement of rights and obligations. I note that the basic sports and sporting relations relating to the latter types of sports organisations - sports schools and foundations - are not affected by the proposed amendment. We therefore consider it necessary from a government point of view that the draft, in line with the content of the amendment, refers to the association's definition in the regulation that, instead of the statutory obligation, unless the federal regulation provides otherwise, it should continue to be possible to conclude a sports contract as a basis for the relationship between the athlete and the sports organisation, irrespective of the type of sports organisation using amateur athletes. In relation to the above, given that the fundamental rights and obligations between an amateur athlete and a sports organisation are settled by a membership agreement or by an amateur sports contract, and that it is considered to be the basis for the relationship between an athlete and a sports organisation in the exercise of sports activities, we do not support the expression of sports activities solely on the basis of a certificate. The certificate should continue to be a guarantee condition for the athlete to have a regulated relationship with the sports organisation; therefore, the athlete and the sports organisation should have a regulated relationship. In view of the above, on the part of the government, I support the adoption of the amendments described in the T/5143. on behalf of this House. Thank you so much for listening. [[Erik Bánki and Dezső Believing applaud.]]
u2015-06-17-278	Dear House, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I'm asking... yeah, there's no one here for Fidesz to comment on. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] He can't comment as the rapporteur's lead speaker. Then I will give the floor to the group of the MSZP, first to Mr Dezső Believer, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-06-17-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Well, there aren't many of us left to speak - some of us who are no longer [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] - and some people didn't think it was necessary or worthwhile to talk about it. Perhaps not, because it seems to be an insignificant amendment to the law, perhaps this is also the reason why we are discussing it at such a late hour; they thought that these four paragraphs of the law were not such a significant event. At the same time, Mr Secretary of State has mentioned and I agree with him that this affects the lives of hundreds of thousands of people, and it is particularly important because they are many young, quite young people. We have often talked about the educational effect of sport; although I do not agree that this is an exclusively educational effect - there was one who expressed this type of opinion - but I do agree that this is a very important thing. If we touch on this regulatory system, I think it is a major issue, and this proposal also has significance and interest. The interesting thing I see is that in both cases - it's all about two main issues - it's about a law created in 2011 or substantially amended in 2011, and that means that it was the current power that shaped it according to the taste of its own mouth, as in the case of the amendment of the two laws. And I'm going to talk to you about what I think that means. The aim of the amendment is to settle this impossible situation for amateur football players today. It has been said here that these one-year contracts are not good, and this should be arranged in some other way. The other is that the decision-making mechanism of sport should be adapted to changes in the business world, which is how I translated it. I would like to deal with the first one, and my fellow Member will address the second issue. I think that in the case of amateur football players - because this is specifically about football players in the first part - on the one hand, the wording of the bill is wrong, by mistake I mean that it is completely meaningless, in Hungarian. So I suggest that we read this again, and that's not going to happen. By unplugging the word, the same word is written twice; I think it is Hungarianless and meaningless. It is worth once again to see that what we write down and accept later, in any case, should be spelled correctly in Hungarian, and that there should not be an insanity clause. I do not want to read this here; if there is a need for this, then I would be happy to tell you what I do not think has been put well in this. I think the other contradiction is that, in my view, in the explanatory statement, it is wrong to express itself in a self-explanatory way. But I'm going to read you what the explanatory statement says. In the field of football, FIFA and UEFA rules do not recognise the existence of an amateur sports contract. According to FIFA and UEFA rules, any relationship between athletes for which a contract is concluded constitutes a professional contract. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The other part of the explanatory statement is that it serves a dual purpose, on the one hand settling the situation of amateur footballers so that the contract of athletes can be concluded in accordance with these requirements. Therefore, FIFA considers that, on the one hand, the amateur cannot have a contract and, on the other hand, we would like to fix these non-existent contracts not only for a period of one year, but also for a longer term period. This must be resolved somehow; this comes from the description. So what I'm asking is either to change the justification or to think about what the course of the blow should be. If such a contract does not exist or should not exist, we may need to think about not having such a contract. In any case, this is not the case in the reasoning and the wording, and it does not come over this way, so in my view it should be resolved in some way. I'm a little embarrassed about what's still to be said. The point of all this is why this amendment has now been made. I turned back and looked at what justified this in 2011 to say that these one-year contracts were necessary. It has been described in the explanatory statement:. On the basis of the feedback gained in the past years' experience in the application of the law, there have been a number of serious abuses, mainly to the detriment of athletes aged up to 14 years and even to the detriment of amateur athletes' contracts on the part of sports organisations. In many cases, these abuses have led to the arbitrary exclusion from competition by the sports organisation of certified sports children, following the prevention of a change in sports associations, and to competitions not being called by competitors who wish to switch clubs before the end of the amateur sports contract, but who do not agree with the training association. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[21.30]] Then the question is: have these reasons been removed? We want to put an end to this. It was established in 2011 that contracts should be concluded for one year, as this continues to be:. The proposal, in view of this, provides for the possibility of concluding an amateur sports contract for a maximum period of one year. Once again, have these reasons ceased to exist? They don't buy and sell talented kids anymore? Aren't you going to stop those who want to change clubs today? And how does this new method change or solve it? Neither the new proposal answers these questions in my opinion nor can we read about them in the explanatory memorandum. My experience is that these reasons, which I have read, have not ceased, are still present in amateur football today, and this is particularly serious if it exists for children. And there's both. If this was true in 2011, and we have therefore tried to regulate and resolve this by allowing them to conclude one-year contracts, then today we need to examine whether these reasons exist and if so, whether the one-year contract is suitable to keep it in a regulated manner. If not, this needs to be changed, but I'm not sure this option will be able to change that. Thank you very much. From now on, my fellow faction will continue.
u2015-06-17-280	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-06-17-281	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I also miss KDNP, LMP and independent representatives in the debate. This is an important issue. I would also like to pick up where my fellow Member Dezső, the Believer, left off. If I may, I would add one sentence or one thought to this justification and the first two parts of the amendment. What I could not quite understand is that, as Mr Secretary of State said, the government would propose such a sector-neutral or sport-neutral solution, but the justification itself is all about what is in the field of Hungarian football. So it's a little confusing that the amendment itself is written for all the sports associations, but the justification only highlights football as the problem of which it wants to solve. Therefore, it would be worth aligning the two, which Mr. Secretary of State has also said, so that this would then apply either to all the sports associations, or that it should be specifically written that this will be changed as a result of the football lobby. As a politician sensitive to sports, as I am also president of the National Association of Sports Associations, I appreciated it a little bit at first reading, because, as Dezső Believing pointed out, the wording is a bit confusing, that this is another opportunity to limit the possibility of sports associations. So, from the point of view of sports associations, we do not consider it a future provision. We would therefore in no way support this amendment in this form. After all, what we see is that the sports government has not seen sports associations in the past, now for almost five years, as the sports industry has seen. In many cases, Commissioner Secretary of State has faced various conferences and discussions with the fact that sports associations are regarded as the basic unit of Hungarian sport by professionals working in sport. Compared to this, and allow me to use this debate for a sentence, there is no form of recognition by the sports government. There is no operating cost support for associations, while the electricity has to be turned on, the accountant has to be paid, and there are a number of costs that are very difficult to manage, even if it is to be recognised that the government provides additional resources for the development of certain sports. Like I said before, and I'd like to say it again, it's certainly a relief. A little more attention should be paid to associations, since they have a number of problems that they face every day. In the second part, which Dezső Believing also said that I would talk a little bit more about it, the same question also arises to the author, that if we give a sports professional association the opportunity to make such a decision without a decision by the general assembly, even if it has a reporting obligation, then why not give this opportunity to sports associations. After all, that part is left untouched by my fellow Member who tabled the amendment. I do not understand why we make a difference, that it is difficult to convene the general assembly in a sports union, at a sports club, or at a large sports club, to convene the assembly. Well, now if it's a problem for one, it's a problem for the other. I would suggest that there should be an addition to this, that sports associations have this opportunity, or that we leave it to the world. I would also support the second, because I think that's what the whole system is about, that the general assembly has a license, which we do need to ask for. Otherwise, a general meeting may authorise the Presidency without further delay to conclude contracts of this type subject to reporting obligation. So, in this sense, I do not understand the justification precisely, because if we have to review it every year anyway, every year the Presidency also has to decide to extend the contracts for more than one year, then, to be honest, I do not see a big change in why this should be put into law now, so to speak, in order to eliminate the assemblies. I understand that the easiest thing would be not to have a general assembly, because then it would be even easier to decide on these issues, but the law of association is that the main decision-making body is the general assembly on certain issues. And, you know, this whole idea has an interesting taste, that nowadays, Fidesz Members of Parliament seem to like showing themselves at the head of various associations and sports associations. Unfortunately, we lost our rehabilitator, who last became president of the wrestling alliance, or even Matthew Kocsis, who became president of the handball alliance, and the Fidesz MEPs took away the opportunity to lead an alliance about which his whole life was about; and simply because it must be very interesting, exciting and good to pose at certain sports events as politicians. I think it would be better if the government and the Fidesz Members did not use their political power to take away the Hungarian sport from those who owned it, from the contestants and sports professionals whose lives have been about it all along. So in Hungarian, we can say that in its present form we cannot support any of its amendments to the Member for different reasons. Of course, there can be a textual proposal that is acceptable to us, and Dezső Believing talked about it in detail in relation to the first two amendments. In the second case, we would suggest that if the government so to say wants sector-neutral, organization-neutral regulation, then this must be true of the second amendment. Then any sports organisation, unit, that has such problems, should be given this opportunity, not just for sports associations. So that would be our position on this. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2015-06-17-282	Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the poor participation and exclusion, the time for speeches by the lead speakers has ended. And now it's time for normal people to take the floor. In this context, I give the floor to Mr István Szávay.
u2015-06-17-283	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, a small number of Members, I've never spoken to a sports law in my life in the last five years, and I have a very low affinity for this case and my expertise. However, I am obliged to do so now, given that President János Latorcai, who was leading the meeting before President Sneider, excluded my fellow Member György Szilágyi from the debate, because he used the word Gypsy and the word crime at the same time as a complex word in the Chamber. Therefore, I will be the one to share my fellow Member Szilágyi's speech with you. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have an amendment to the sport law before us. It is proposed that minor adjustments and minor clarifications are required in the text of the law. The first clarification serves as a justification for making it easier and better for amateur football players to meet FIFA and UEFA requirements. The justification refers to the fact that neither FIFA nor UEFA differentiates between amateur and professional sports contracts and therefore the amendment is justified. The argument may be true, but the amendment intended to be made in the text of the law does not contain any textual changes as to when a sports contract is considered to be amateur or professional. [[21.40]] The sport law currently in force also makes no distinction between sports contracts. A sports contract may be a legal relationship or an employment relationship, both of which are regulated in detail in further laws. None of these laws are affected by the current amendment proposal. I therefore believe that the argument contained in the explanatory statement does not support the amendment to the norm. The textual amendments do indeed appear to be of a technical nature. According to the current rule, amateur athlete can play sports either as a member or as a sports contract. According to the amendment, you can continue to play sports in a sports club as a member or under a sports contract if the rules of competition of the sports association or of the professional association require the conclusion of a sports contract. At present and according to the amendment, an amateur athlete can only play sports with sports contracts. Thus, an explanatory turn is inserted into the text of the law. It is not about UEFA or FIFA's expectations of athletes. In the event that FIFA or UEFA raises certain expectations regarding the subject matter, scope or content of contracts with athletes, the institution system of the particular sport must inform its athletes, whether they are professionals or amateurs. Knowledge of international expectations is in the interest of athletes, if they want an international sports career, and it is in the interest of sports organisations, which would like to raise their reputation by raising successful athletes capable of internationalisation. Sports contracts are therefore concluded by the parties - sports and sports organisations - with content adapted to their goals and expectations. The content of each contract should not be regulated by law. The current legislation provides for a wide range of possibilities for concluding sports contracts and their content. In support of the change, the arguments put forward in the statement of reasons are neither logical nor factual. The amendment does not carry any added content according to the rules of the Hungarian language, it does not result in any change in content in the current text, therefore we consider it unnecessary and it is not justified to accept it. And then we didn't even talk about FIFA and UEFA not admitting to amateur sports contracts. It also includes the 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the operation and support of civil society organisations. The amendment of the Act - which, by the way, was also discussed with a similar unnecessary nature in the previous item until a single point was opened. To have something of my own in the speech. The amendment of the law is clearly intended to ensure that, in the case of national sports professional associations, contracts with respect to advertising, advertising and mediation rights resulting in a significant proportion of the revenue, over one year, are not approved by the main decision-making body, the general meeting, but by the management body. As a reason for the amendment, the author argues that the approval of these contracts by the main decision-making body is an unnecessary and unnecessary bureaucratic obstacle which must be removed. The convening of the General Assembly is a time-consuming and difficult task and should therefore be avoided in the event of the conclusion of contracts over one year. Why do we distinguish between sports associations and other sports associations? If it is difficult for the sports union to convene the assembly, then why not the other associations? The proposal contained in the proposal does not give any substantive justification for this distinction, and we are therefore obliged to make assumptions. Managing bodies are the bodies where various political paratroopers have landed in the past - we have heard about this today - in various sports. Falsification of the Presidency and the administration is a living practice, which they want to support now by handing this set a tool to cement itself into management. An unfavorable contract concluded under bad conditions can make the whole sport impossible and therefore a key guarantee is the approval of the general meeting. With the adoption of this amendment, sports corruption has once again gained ground in the face of membership and of the public, in addition to opaque Taomutys, contracts of property value beyond the year in which the rights of property have been acquired. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ceterum censeo, gypsy crime exists. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-17-284	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on what has been said. [[No signal.]] I don't see any comment. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Attila Mesterházy came forward in order of business. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-17-285	Mr President, In view of what my better fellow Member has just said, that if the sitting is consistent, then my fellow Member must also be expelled again for what has been said. Thank you very much. [[Novak Előd: Don't stretch your hand.]]
u2015-06-17-286	Thank you. The sitting is not consistent, because I judge the same word differently, this term of criminology, as my fellow vice president before me or before me. I now give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki.
u2015-06-17-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, first of all, for the comments, although I see that some of the comments come from interpretation problems and not necessarily from problems, just because others interpret the same legislation differently, the same proposals. I do not really understand the suggestion of my fellow Member, Dezső, that why it is necessary to amend the legislation adopted by this Parliament in 2011 by a majority of the representatives of this government. Dear fellow Member, In 2011, a fixed one-year deadline for the conclusion of amateur contracts took place because any association previously had the opportunity to conclude a five-year amateur contract. The argument you read was indeed said in Parliament four years ago because there were competitors who had been cemented into the club by a 4-5-6-year-old amateur sports contract, and there was indeed such a thing as that despite the parents' most determined intentions, they could not bring the children or bring the children, but they were excluded from the competition system. That's why we reduced it to a year. Now we are proposing to end this because we believe that even one year is unnecessary for certain sports. That is why, as Mr Secretary of State has said, I am in favour of it myself, and, of course, that is what the legislator's intention was to do not to abolish it for all sports associations and all sports associations, but we do not make it compulsory for them to conclude a one-year contract with an amateur status. So from now on, every sports union can decide how to define its competition rules, and I think it's the best solution, it's the most natural thing. So it is not about restoring a system that was abolished in 2011 but about transforming this system further, by creating the best possible legal conditions for athletes and sports associations. Mr Attila Mesterházy, which is also related to the suggestion of Mr György Szilágyi - in the interpretation of Mr Szávay, of course - this is why this administrative facilitation applies only to the national professional associations as regards the convening of the assembly. It's probably my fault, because the proposal was made in my head with a national professional union head, seeing the problems that the convening of a National Association's general assembly was about. By the way, we all know that it's much easier to convene a local sports club. But if the Members consider this to be an important issue and think that this facilitation should be extended to sports clubs, I am not opposed to it. So as a pointer, if such a proposal is made, I am willing to support it. Mr Szilágyi's other point, by further buttoning this thread, is completely rejected, and I consider it an absolute political campaign to be here... how did you put it, Congressman? Sports dog? [[György Szilágyi: Sport corruption.]] Sorry, even worse. Mr President, you have been talking about sport corruption, which I strongly reject, because it has nothing to do with corruption at all, that we are making an administrative burden or an operational regulation easier. I have also said in my argument, and you are obviously aware that this amendment does not affect transparency in any way, since every sports association, every professional association, is obliged to hold a general meeting every year, otherwise it can be terminated and it is mandatory to terminate the association because it does not function legally, and every year it has to be reported about these decisions. It is merely an opportunity to delegate this power, not to cement it in law, that only the general assembly can do so, but to have the opportunity, if the general assembly so decides, to delegate this power to the Presidency. [[21.50]] By the way, I note that the Presidency of a national professional association, or even every member of the chairmanship of a sports association, has full financial responsibility for the decisions it makes as a member of the board. So I think that the law is quite well-defined about the responsibilities here, and there is no question that this proposal has anything to do with sport corruption or the elimination of transparency. The other, by the way, is a misinterpretation of FIFA and the agreement with UEFA. The legislation is not intended to harmonise domestic case law with UEFA and FIFA legislation. This is only due to this amendment. The fundamental intention is not to harmonise the two regulations, but to remove domestic bureaucracy and red tape in the field of sport. And why football is primarily included in the explanatory statement is because two thirds of certified athletes are in football. So football is faced with the greatest administrative burden, with more than 200,000 contracts to be concluded each year alone, while all other sports associations have just over 100 thousand to deal with. So the argument comes from here, and obviously the basic pressure came from the football clubs, the supply academies. Of course, all the other professional associations and sports associations can also benefit from this facilitation, and I would like to emphasise once again: if that is what you want. The law does not oblige them not to conclude an amateur sports contract, but merely to give them the opportunity. Why, my fellow Member? As I said in the debate, a supply academy has to conclude 350-400-450 contracts every year. You have to tie it because today they are bound by the law. In addition, on the first day of July, which is the turning day for the championship, you will have to do so on the first day of July, which is otherwise physically impossible. Those contracts are dated 1 July, but you know as well as I do, my fellow Members, that 400 contracts cannot be prepared one day, parents are ordered and signed, so we expect an impossible thing in itself. So I think that this administrative burden reduction will be beneficial for all sports associations. So I would ask my fellow Members to reconsider their views, to draft amendments that think that legislation can be made more precise and better, and I myself am not opposed to any proposal that serves the goals of Hungarian sport and Hungarian sports associations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. István Simicskó applauds.]]
u2015-06-17-288	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. I would like to inform you that the first day of the second extraordinary meeting is expected to take place on 22 June 2015. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 9:53 p.m.]]
