u2015-02-20-0	Good morning, fellow Members. I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our meeting today. I would like to inform you that Erzsébet Schmuck and László Földi will be of assistance to me in leading this meeting. Dear Parliament, Mr András Aradszki has applied for a speech before the agenda today from the KDNP Group: without work there is no dignity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, In September 2013, Pope Francis said: "Where there is no work, dignity is lacking. Unemployment is a global decision, a result of an economic system that leads to this tragedy. It is an economic system that focuses on an idol called money. God wanted an idol not to be at the center of the world, but a man and a woman who moved the world forward with their work. ▪The reality of the Holy Father's words, the tragedy of the increase in unemployment, could be deeply experienced by Hungarian society before 2010 during the period of social liberal government. However, ever since Hungary had a Christian Democratic leadership, the trend has changed, more and more people have come back to their human dignity through the possibility of working. I deeply agree with Minister Zoltán Balog, who believes that vulnerability must not be accepted, and that government policy is therefore at the heart of activation and job creation. The work means that we bring home bread, that we love you, as dignity means, - the Pope taught in Sardinia in September 2013. Dear House, From 2010 onwards, the Fidesz-KDNP government has taken a number of measures to provide a solution for those disadvantaged in the world of work, i.e. to improve the conditions for employment. In the course of the action plan for the protection of jobs launched from 2011, it provided jobs for thousands of workers in the years when the Hungarian economy started to grow after a deep downturn. The number of employees has increased, with more than four million workers working, which has been the highest number of employees since the transition period. Unemployment in Hungary decreased by 2 percentage points between November 2013 and November 2014 from 9.3 percent to 7.3 percent, which is well below the EU average. In one year, this is the second largest reduction of 28 Member States in the European Union, so we are directly ahead of Sweden, Belgium and Finland in terms of unemployment rates. It is well known that nearly 70 percent of workers work in small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises are, on the one hand, the most exposed to market changes and, on the other hand, very creative and can react quickly to changed circumstances. They are able to provide livelihoods for owners, family members and, not least, employees. Their support, strengthening their role in economic life, is the primary task of the government's economic policy. The action and opportunity announced by the National Bank of Hungary today, the growth credit programme plus, serve to achieve this goal. The MNB extends the growth credit programme to small and medium-sized enterprises that have so far been too risky for banks to be able to lend them at a maximum of 2.5 per cent of the bank interest margin required by the programme. However, from mid-March until the end of the year, SMEs that have not been entitled to this loan can now benefit from loans with a maximum interest rate of 2,5 per cent. In addition, this source could be used as basically a new investment loan. This assistance to SMEs, this option, provides conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary to obtain credit from which they can invest and develop and thus create new jobs. In this area, it is essential that the domestic economy is supported in this way by the State. The press bells it as a miracle weapon, I'm not sure it's a miracle weapon, but in any case, it could be a great help. This programme of the MNB is linked to the government's strategy that 60% of the EU funds to be paid between 2014 and 20 may also be granted to small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. All these tools ensure that the Hungarian economy will be significantly strengthened in the coming years, thus creating jobs, and the possibility of working will strengthen Hungarian society in spirit when it returns its dignity. Because for us Christian Democrats, the latter is as important a task as increasing the performance of the economy. Because together with the Pope, we confess that the work is part of God's love plan. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-3	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On 16 March 2015, the Hungarian National Bank will support small and medium-sized enterprises that had not previously received preferential funding in the financial markets by means of a new instrument called the Growth Loan Programme. They are mostly undertakings considered by banks to be more risky, which for some reason have been excluded from the previous NHP programme, so the banking system would only have given them credit too expensively, or they do not have enough collateral to obtain another bank source through their previous loans. The new construction will add HUF 500 billion to the previous NHP programme by the end of the year to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, as you have said, with low interest rates and collateral requirements. The main difference is that in the NHP plus, the MNB takes over part of the credit losses from the banks, thereby boosting their willingness to take risks. It is planned that the NHP plus the previous NHP will reach two thirds of the small and medium-sized enterprises in which nearly three-quarters of the workers work and thus their access to finance is essential for further job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, In the Hungarian economy, thanks to the measures taken by the government and the central bank, the move towards a healthier, more uniform, more balanced growth structure started in 2013. The figures received in recent quarters show that this shift has now become permanent. The core elements of the measures were the MNB's actions to boost lending, including a series of reductions in interest rates, which has already significantly improved the conditions for access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Improving corporate lending and maintaining continuous business operation is extremely important for financing new investments, as you have stressed. As the domestic corporate sector grows, the programme is increasingly supporting employment growth, allowing an increasing number of people to work. Increasing labour market demand has also shown a dynamic increase in wages, while the government's anti-cost measures have greatly contributed to the decline in inflation to record levels. As a result, real wages have increased to a high degree, well above 3 per cent in the last year, making employment more attractive for the previously inactive groups. [[9.10]] The government's primary goal is to restore the honour of work, to create a work-based society and to make as many people as possible access to work. As a result of the measures, both the previously very low activity rate and the employment rate in the international comparison have increased significantly. The number of employees has risen to a record level of 4.2 million people, while the unemployment rate has fallen to 7.1 percent. Permanently stable and favourable labour market performance is also significant in international comparison. In the last four years, Hungary has reduced its unemployment rate by 3.6 percentage points, with the fourth largest reduction in the EU Member States after the Baltic States. With the support of domestic businesses, all of this has been achieved by a marked slowdown in external economic activity, mainly in developed countries, which is well reflected by the fact that while the euro area's Member States have grown at an average rate of less than 1 per cent in the last quarter, the Hungarian economy has, in order, grown well above 3 per cent. The durability of favourable processes is recognised by international institutions and their economic expectations for Hungary are improved. I hope that their example will also be followed by credit rating agencies in the future. Mr President, thank you for your speech. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-20-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sallai R. Benedek, from the LMP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title of the country's energy policy: gas and nuclear versus renewables. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In our dialogue two days ago, in our debate, I have still considered a lot, and although there are a number of very important public affairs that should be discussed, I think it would be good if, once again, as a representative of the government, you could tell me how you thought, in the longer term, that energy policy is based on a basis that creates vulnerability. Just now, I was pleased to hear him speak before the agenda, when he spoke about the fact that we should not tolerate vulnerability, but at the same time that we are serving the country's energy policy fully to Russia, and it is clear that, in practice, when it comes to energy policy, we can think of Russian nuclear energy based on Russian natural gas or Putini money. That's what means real vulnerability. Then I was happy to listen to Mr. Secretary of State before the agenda and Mr. Tállai's reply on the issue of the taking up of small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is so good to hear them. At the same time, in real life, we see that these subsidies never actually reach the target group, because it is not understandable how it can be that people are not getting the money, that small and medium-sized enterprises may not be strengthened because people have a solvent demand for access to services. If we think about this, we are already at the renewable sector, and we are there in building insulation, energy efficiency, how much better it would be to have the widest possible range of Hungarian society access to subsidies, tools that will help them, if possible, to use the services of local small and medium-sized enterprises; to have solar panels on their house, to have solar collectors, to be able to incorporate technologies, whether from hot water or electricity, that help small regions and families to build their independence. Instead, there is a process that has not yet been discussed since the spring session started, which was made clear to everyone in the press in January, namely the renewal of renewable energy production instruments with the environmental product fee system, which will make it even more impossible and make it even more difficult for these sectors to grow. This is obvious because while Austria, the Netherlands, Spain, Germany are helping their citizens to access the tools of energy production at residential level, we are putting new taxes and burdens on them in Hungary. How is it possible for the government to say its goals in this direction, assigning 1 billion forints, 2 billion forints, while spending the thousand or two thousand times this, 3000 billion, 4000 billion on a completely different energy policy. Why can't Hungarian citizens get the support that citizens of the same EU can do in Western Europe? Why is it possible that in Hungary there is no chance that small regions - thinking about renewable energy - will set up regional energy supply systems, whether in terms of wind energy or solar energy? The right direction would be to break off with the path that the Orbán government has set out, but I am curious, Mr Secretary, if you could tell me how different energy policy governance in Gyurcsány and governance in Orbán is when both of them rely on Russian energy and both of them name the same nuclear targets. What is the difference between you and the eight years of Gyurcsány regarding energy policy? What could you possibly have done to change that? What has made progress and improved the life of Hungarian society? We have heard these speeches to help small and medium-sized enterprises very loudly, but what we see is that society does not have any money, which would have the opportunity to develop, but the sector that would enable renewable energy to grow has also suffered taxes and difficulties while the country is moving in another direction. Mr Secretary of State, we would like to have an answer on how, in your opinion, it will be possible for the renewable sector to spread in Hungary in accordance with the objectives of the European Union once everything goes the other way. Thank you very much for the floor. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]]
u2015-02-20-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Mr András Aradszki will answer. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-7	I thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Mr President, for your question and your suggestion. As far as energy policy is concerned, the Commissioner knows that in 2011, we adopted the energy strategy, which, in line with the interests of the Hungarian people, will provide competitive, accessible to the general public with the right quality and quantity of energy for the next 15-20-30 years. This nuclear strategy is about the three-legged Hungarian energy production: it relies on nuclear power plants, fossil fuels and renewables. This shows the sure aim, that we do not exclude the existence of renewables, but that the Hungarian energy mix will also be an important element of the energy mix from renewables. In this regard, let me say that the statement that we are creating dependence on gas and atomic fronts is factually not true. On the gas front, on the front of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, I have to say that this is a well-preserved fuel, at least two years in advance, and beyond the fact that the Russian company is building the nuclear power plant and financing it in the form of a loan, which we will have to repay, we have no other addictions. The Russian party does not request a share of the nuclear power plant, does not request that we determine the electricity price, ensure that it is repaid, requests no further guarantees, and, as I said, in this respect, the operation of the nuclear power plant is more likely to affect independence, because otherwise, the fuel of this type of nuclear power plant can be replaced by other fuels than Russian nuclear power plants. With regard to gas, the Member forgets that Hungary was the first to take steps in this direction to ensure the existence of other sources by building a suitable network and by building cross-border crossings. At the moment it is not Hungary's fault that, although the pipelines are in place, one of our partner countries refuses to operate this pipeline in such a way that the gas can also come to Hungary, even though it has international obligations to do so. The other issue is that, if we look at the situation of gas security in Europe, at the moment, there is a lack of gas capacity from the southeast, which would have been Nabucco, which would have fallen on its own, there would have been the South Stream, and this would not have happened, so the country is in a really critical position from this point of view, but it is encouraging that Russian gas, without which the energy market in Central and Eastern Europe - and I stress it: its energy market - will not work, it will be available. [[9.20]] If the North and South Stream are implemented, LNG terminals are implemented, there is a Black Sea gas and Hungary is put into operation, for which there are serious plans - including EU funded projects - then our independence in terms of gas can be placed on a market basis, and we are independent of dependence, as the energy strategy has said. With regard to renewables, I would like to say that, in recent years, Hungary's mandatory share of 2020 in line with its European commitments, which is 13 percent, raised it to 14.65 percent on its own initiative, and I report that we are currently doing well in implementing this plan. In 2012, the share of renewables in Hungarian energy production reached 9,6 percent on a pro rata basis, and this is mainly on the heating side. In many ways, the Hungarian government also supports renewables through the mandatory delivery system. For example, they are now starting an investment with the creation of a photovoltaic power plant in the Mátra Power Plant, and a number of other KEOP applications will be able to do so, resulting in a 14.65 percent share by 2020. I see that when you raise such problems, you don't look at the facts thoroughly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member György Lukács of the Jobbik Group applied for a speech before the agenda: with Balta instead of the surgical scalpel? This is the title of the Sombor package. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor in front of the agenda because one of the most painful and controversial events of spring may have started, or perhaps it is already under way behind closed doors. The problem affects not only the profession, but also society. The problem is health restructuring, the so-called Sombor package and the insufficient funding of health institutions. And the problem is also what the government seems to regret for a long time now. The two-thirds have postponed the transformation of health care over the last five years, the solution to funding, and the issue of health has been on the same footing for five years. Let's look at the three areas we need to talk about. On the other hand, the restructuring, changing health structures, debt, debt and the hopeless situation of workers. Gábor Zombor, State Secretary for Health, announced in October 2014 that a complete transformation of health has been planned - and a plan has been written - to do so. The restructuring plans, which affect basic care, in-patient care and health background institutions, were already watched with concern by the profession, and from January 2015 onwards, the profession as well as society as a whole has been watching with increasing concern, as it has become clear that during the transformation there will be consequences for the cessation, termination of 8 to 10 thousand jobs, the dismissal of health workers, and even the government has left out a number of professional organisations to comment on health change and planning. The third major problem with medical transformation is that it takes place in all the unworthy circumstances behind closed doors, embracing the decision of the health department leaders who have to make uncomfortable decisions. This is how the government dances out of the awkward, uncomfortable situation. The medical transformation has already come to the conclusion that a whole package has been named about it, and it is not considered a good sign by the National Assembly Journal, but sleepbooks do not consider it a good sign when a package is named about someone. We can see that the Bokros package, previously the Gyurcsány package or the left-wing health spree in 2006-2008, the Molnár package was not good, and the Sombor package will not be good either. In fact, it has come to our attention that the entire package, the transformation, may not even be coordinated with the Medical Chamber. It seems very much that they do not keep the promises and the plan that István Mikola said in 2006-2008 about why the MSZP and SZDSZ did not agree on the transformations. Well, Fidesz, the government of Fidesz, they're doing the same thing, they're doing the same thing. Instead of a calm, calm transformation, the government begins a rash, hasty medical transformation. Fidesz is a reckless, hasty force in the field of health conversion. In 20 years, the beds were split in Hungarian health care. Fidesz will continue to reduce this and further destroy Hungarian health care. It would be nice to clarify what structural changes there are, but the issue of debt is also important. Currently, health institutions in Hungary have a debt of nearly 100 billion, which not only weighs on their shoulders, but also on the burdens of the companies that are lending them. These businesses are now at risk of being unable to pay taxes, paying contributions, and threatening their everyday farming. But there is another side of this medal: there are healthcare entrepreneurs who are foreign, capital-powered and consider themselves the bank of health care, the bank of the health government, and this company and the related groups want to build a private hospital in Hungary. So it's clear that the government has gone into a double game in an extremely dangerous situation. The situation of health workers is also an unresolved issue. The health career model, wage management has been practically in one place for years, apart from isolated, small cases - when a profession was taken out, with certain wage developments in GPs and residents - there is no real merit. So the question is, and I ask Mr Secretary of State to answer openly, stand before the voters and tell them whether there will be a reduction in the number of beds, which classes, which will be closed, will be closed by the Field Tour hospital in Tapolca. Tell me the truth, because with the Sombor package, they're gonna destroy health care. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have said many times that this is a matter of secret documents behind closed doors. But the honourable Member also knows very well that in the Hungarian edition, the "Healthy Hungary 2010-2020" strategy, along which the government is moving, was published. I cannot call the secret document behind closed doors what appears in the Hungarian Gazette, so it is visible to everyone. This also has one main objective: we are organizing the transformation of health care, so that the number of years spent in health is increased by two. Plus, we want to give two healthy years to everyone in Hungary as a result of this transformation. It was a little weird and confounding in your speech that you sometimes accused the government of not acting, and sometimes of rushing. Between these two, you must find a way to strike a balance. Which means the situation of health workers: we, too, believe that there is a huge gap here, which this government intends to gradually bring in. You know that 95,000 health workers have been paid 27 percent on average, which means that they have received an extra HUF 76 billion in health care. Obviously, we would all be happy if there were more, and we will strive for it, but I think this is a good result compared to the results of the earlier years. And it is also very important that, as long as 1700 resident and young pharmacists have received a 100 thousand HUF or 200 thousand HUF extra residency grant, this year's budget includes such a salary supplement for another 700 young people. You know that health development, health investment in hospitals and other health institutions are currently taking place in four hundred locations in Hungary. The total value of this is HUF 500 billion. We hope that everyone will benefit from this. It is a very big problem, and it has been a problem for decades with debt rolled before health care, which was there every year in the field of health. Last year, we tried to reduce this in the order of 10 billion dollars. This year's budget includes HUF 60 billion for the debt reduction of budgetary bodies. This resource is also used to reduce debt in hospitals, among other things. We hope that for hospitals that can prevent regeneration, which are planning to do so, this could be an important source. [[9.30]] Similarly, it is important to reduce waiting lists, as in the last 25 years we have only heard how the waiting time for each intervention increases. You forgot to tell me that at the beginning of last year, the government gave 1.5 billion forints to reduce waiting lists, which could reduce the number of people on the waiting list by 3,000. During the year, the government added an extra 1 billion in the summer, and in December-January the government paid the hospitals an extra HUF 6 billion to reduce the waiting lists. That's 1.5 plus 1 plus 6 billion forints, that's 8.5 billion forints. I do not believe, Congressman, that any government has ever been able to use such an amount to reduce waiting lists. In essence, the length of the waiting list is reduced to such a small extent in the hip replacement and other major interventions, according to our plans, that it is no longer a greater inconvenience for anyone. Our very important objective is also stated in this strategy, not only the two years spent in plus health, but also the separation of health care, which is financed free of charge by market and social security for all. Everyone who pays their contributions to the social security system should receive free and high-quality care. It should be completely separate from this, but it may exist, but not in an institution, not with the same machines, not in the same room, the market-based form of care, which is part of the healthcare industry, which, if you wish to do so, as a foreigner, if you pay, you will receive the extra services there. However, this must not mean that these services, paying services, are introduced at the expense of the services provided free of charge. We would also like to separate this well and guarantee free care for everyone, because health is not a business in our view. I would also like to deny what you said that the work of the County Health Coordination Committees would be too limited. The National Health Insurance Fund, the National Chief Medical Office, the Institute for Quality and Organizational Development of Pharmacy and Health, the county government offices and the inpatient supply institutions of each county are also represented. You were just talking about the fact that the Hungarian Medical Chamber is excluded from this. Of course not, their delegate also participates in the work of these bodies as observers. So I think, honourable Member, that we are playing with open cards, our goal is to add two healthful years to everyone. And I trust that if your bill gets here, you can support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-20-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the group of the MSZP, Mr Attila Harangozó applied for a speech before the agenda:. Not to hate and misrepresent, but to govern at last, gentlemen. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As a Christian, I cannot say otherwise: we must be in solidarity with all men. No one chooses where he is born, but everyone has a right to life. I don't see the closure of borders as feasible anyway. The thoughts of Bishop Miklós Beer Vác show how shameful the propaganda that Fidesz is pursuing on the refugee issue is. As strange as it may seem to you, we're talking about people, mothers, fathers, children. Just as it was people, innocently murdered people, when nearly a million European citizens marched on the streets of Paris, bowing their heads to the victims and demonstrating that European values, freedom of the press, democracy and humanism cannot be taken away from us. On this day, the Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, managed to say the instigating text against economic immigrants, to the deep shame of all of us. He did so as Prime Minister of the country from which nearly half a million of our countrymen fled from unemployment, poverty and corruption under his government. And he did this as the Prime Minister of the country where the vast majority of genuine economic immigrants who came from other countries for living and working in Hungary are from our fellow Hungarians across the border. Has Viktor Orbán said to them that Hungary does not need them? This case will show us the true face of Fidesz again. By spreading half-truths and gross lies, they want to use political capital to strengthen people's most intuitive fears. However, we do not want to pretend that tens of thousands of asylum seekers at our borders do not pose serious police, border police and asylum problems. However, a month ago, at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, the competent bodies indicated exactly what to prepare for. I'm asking what you've done since then to deal with the situation. What is Antal Rogán stirring in the East a month later? Did you want to change euros? What is Viktor Orbán fooling around with his questionnaire instead of doing his job? In the last few weeks, in months, instead of public relations, you should have answered the following questions. Why do the procedures take months? Why are they unable to assess manifestly unfounded requests in 30 days? How can most applicants disappear during the procedure when they could not leave the reception centre without authorisation? Why can't they catch illegal border crossings at the border? How do they get across the border by mass so that they can end up in the sights of the authorities at Eastern Station? If we're serious for one second that you really want to shut down all refugees right now, answer me, please, a few basic questions. Of what, where, how do you intend to hold 100-150 thousand people in Hungary? Do people know if the refugee camp will be next to their settlement? Do you know that in camps there is a school, a doctor to be provided? In comparison, 17 thousand people are being held in Hungarian prisons today. It costs 50 billion forints a year, and it takes nearly 10,000 prison guards. Why are you fooling the Hungarian people again? The answer is increasingly obvious: the government cannot handle the refugee wave. It would be your responsibility to ensure that asylum applications are dealt with quickly, efficiently and fairly. Wouldn't it be in everyone's best interest to devote money and energy to speeding up asylum procedures and a fair settlement of asylum seekers? For example, the hundreds of millions planned for the national consultation could be spent on this, fellow Members. However, we are sure of one thing. As long as Viktor Orbán is the Prime Minister, Hungary will certainly not become the target country for immigrants. It will not become, because under Viktor Orbán's governance, as in Kosovo, poverty, hopelessness and all-out corruption make everyday life unbearable in Hungary. For living reasons, people don't come here. People leave. One word, like a hundred fellow Members: instead of creating hatred and misconception, start steering! Of course, only if, in addition to slapping public funds, they can take some time to deal with the problems of Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-02-20-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2015-02-20-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Accurate memory is a very important virtue, regardless of whether someone is a politician or works in any other area of life. Allow me to remind you that you alarmed me, you provoked hatred at the end of 2001, in the spring of 2002, when you scared Hungary with 23 million Romanians. [[György Balla: Shame!]] The Hungarian people were scared that 23 million Romanians are coming here to work, and Hungarians and Romanians across the border are taking away their livelihoods, taking away their bread, their job, their house. Honourable Congressman, You alarmed me, you incited me, you caused hatred at the end of 2001, in the spring of 2002 in the election campaign. It may not be useless to revive these periods and perhaps to express these false statements more modestly. [[???Gőgös Zoltán: Sorold csak, Karcsi, figyelünk!???]] Honourable Congressman, I would like to say that you know this very well that both the border police offices of the Hungarian police, all Hungarian border officers, all Hungarian immigration and civil officials work honestly and honestly. I reject the attack you're launching on the police force, the Immigration and Nationality Office staff. I think this is completely unfounded and unworthy. [[???Gőgös Zoltán: Ne told át a felelősséget!???]] Honourable Congressman, The facts speak for themselves. In 2012, 2157 refugees arrived in Hungary, in 2013 18 900, in 2014 nearly 45 thousand, and today it is February 20, 2015, in 50 days more than 30 thousand refugees arrived. So in 50 days, it's $30,000. [[9.40]] This is a problem that needs to be addressed. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In order to solve this problem, we would like the greatest support to be established, a public agreement to formulate Hungarian interests and these Hungarian interests to be fully represented by the government. The government is still doing everything in its power to represent Hungarian interests in the current situation, in the current legislative context. But I would like to draw your attention, Mr honourable Member, to the 1951 Geneva Convention and the EU rules, which say that refugees - who come into Hungary today - are committing illegal border crossings, which, by the way, is an offence - are seeking asylum immediately, seeking refugee status - cannot be restricted in their free movement. If we did this, we would do it without legal basis, then you here in Parliament would rightly be asking the opposite of that. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, the EU rules. The European Union is currently pursuing infringement proceedings against Hungary, because the institution of asylum detention, which we have recently introduced precisely to increase security, is not used, so to speak, as intended. Then, by the way, during today's debate, for thanking the Fidesz-KDNP fraction for initiating a day of debate on living immigration, and with the opportunity of a debate day, we will be able to focus on all segments of the asylum problem, and we can say, on the one hand, the legislative environment, the facts, the figures, all the things that now characterize this issue, but let me draw your attention to a significant result yesterday. Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér negotiated with the Serbian and Austrian Ministers of Interior in Belgrade - by the way, the government of Hungary has already cooperated with the Serbian and Austrian governments in order to reduce illegal migration - well, yesterday, an agreement with the Serbian Minister of Interior has been signed to allow Kosovo to be returned to Kosovo on land, via Serbia. This applies to the Kosovans currently residing here, who are waiting for a return home, and this agreement has a future effect. Honourable Congressman, The government is acting for Hungary. The government is doing everything in its power to protect Hungary from living immigrants, but it is important to see that the current rules are not suitable for this, which is why it needs to be tightened up, which is why it needs to be changed, and therefore it is important to have a debate day. I would ask you to take part in this debate and give your views. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks. Zoltán Pride: You were inconclusive.]]
u2015-02-20-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Rogán Antal Group leader has applied for a speech before the agenda on the issue of the forinting of foreign currency loans. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-02-20-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I turn to the subject that I have pointed out in the title, I would also like to point out that today's political debate on living immigration is an extremely important issue, according to my group. I would like to predict to my fellow Members in the MSZP that before they talk about xenophobia, it is perhaps not only the 23 million Romanians that are worth recalling. I hold in my hand the information material relating to the referendum campaign on 5 December 2004 prepared by MSZP for its own staff on how to argue against Hungarians against Hungarians, against Hungarians across the border, honourable Members. [[???Felzúdulás és közbeszólások a kormánypárti padsorokból: Szégyen! Szégyen! Az elnök csenget.???]] You wanted to protect the Hungarians from the Hungarians on 5 December 2004; now you do not seem to have a problem with living immigrants, but we will discuss this on the debate day. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that one of the most important decisions for Hungarian families has been the law on the forinting of foreign currency loans in recent months. I am truly sorry that my fellow opposition Members voted 'no' to this without exception, including socialist Members. If your will had been met when this vote took place, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that today every foreign exchange loaner would pay at least 20-30 thousand forints more. This is your real government irrationalness. [[???Dr. Schiffer András: Matolcsynál van a pénz!???]] Ladies and gentlemen, In December 2014, when this decision was made, we were faced with a moment when, at the last minute, it was possible to save foreign exchange lenders from an increasing exchange rate in Switzerland. You would not have taken advantage of this opportunity then, my fellow Members, and I would just remind you of the argument on the exchange rate: that rate of 256 HUF is a favourable exchange rate compared to today's exchange rate, to say the least. Ladies and gentlemen, Please exercise some self-criticism. If it had been up to you, hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credentials would have been ruined from 1 February, since they would have paid the outstandingly high repayment from February. Thanks to the decision made at that time, we were able to save hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credentials from increasing their repayments from 1 February. And then, ladies and gentlemen, it follows that from 1 March to 30 April 2015, more than 600 thousand families in Hungary, where there has ever been or is currently a foreign currency loan, will each receive a settlement note, the settlement note presented by the Hungarian National Bank during yesterday, starting with the implementation of the accounting of banks and the forinting of foreign exchange creditors. We are closing a phase, ladies and gentlemen, in a period in which the irresponsibleness of left-wing governments can also be seen in action. If you do not contribute with an active policy to the Hungarian banking market on the one hand by foreign banks, if you do not contribute to the fact that the foreign currency loans, which until then was a sporadic phenomenon, were allowed only by those who took their payments in foreign currency, those foreign currency-based loans would have covered the Hungarian market, then hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families would not have had to suffer from the burden of foreign currency loans for many years. With the hard work of many years, we will end this era in 2015, the era of foreign exchange loans will end in 2015 in Hungary, and the new fair banking system will begin, in which Hungarian families can finance their long-term expenditures with predictable interest rates, which cannot be changed unilaterally. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you that if, in the future, strategic decisions such as the forinting of foreign currency loans are taken, you should consider your vote next time. We have now seen, on two occasions, that we have not received clear support from the opposition benches, that we have not received any support for the reduction of the rent, and that we have not received any support for the forinting of foreign currency loans. [[???Gőgös Zoltán: Mert mi sokkal jobbat javasoltunk! Ne hazudj!???]] I want you to think a little more carefully about your decisions in the future. [[???Dr. Schiffer András: Miért nem felvételkori árfolyamon????]] because you are not simply risking yourself, but hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families, my fellow Members. This is the real responsibility, and perhaps precisely these decisions have shown to everyone that only irresponsible, ungovernable representatives are sitting in opposition benches, because otherwise in both cases, I think they would have recognized the interests of the electorate in time and stood behind the decisions of the ruling parties in time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-20-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Mr Répássy Róbert is responding. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Head of the Group. Ladies and gentlemen, The governments in office between 2003 and 2010 are heavily responsible for the development of foreign exchange lending and the damage caused. From 2003 onwards, the then-regulating government abolished the interest-supported HUF loan and the central bank's base rate was also high to offset its overspending measures. As a result, forint loans have increased significantly, but banks have been able to raise foreign currency sources and deposit them as loans at low interest rates compared to forints. Low interest rates have made foreign exchange loans extremely attractive for the general public. This was the real reason for the start of foreign exchange lending. The exchange rate risk inherent in foreign exchange loans was already reflected in the initial phase of the financial crisis in 2008, when the forint weakened about 20 percent against the euro and the Swiss franc. Until the Orbán government was established, the banks passed on exchange rate changes to their customers without limit and in full. [[9.50]] On the other hand, immediately following the government's formation in 2010, it began to eliminate the very serious inherited situation in which hundreds of thousands of families could have lost their homes because of their foreign exchange-based mortgages. In order to help those in trouble, the government practically prohibited the issue of new foreign exchange loans as a first step and made the use of the central rate mandatory for repayments. In addition, a number of measures have been taken to reduce the problem of foreign exchange loans. Among other things, it made it possible to repay the debt, which was nearly 170 thousand debtors, and the debt thus released was some 370 billion forints. It introduced an exchange rate fixation to dampen the effect of exchange rate fluctuations. By the end of September 2014, 186 thousand foreign exchange taxpayers concluded such contracts. The most difficult debtors were protected by the government by the eviction moratorium, preventing them from getting out on the street. In addition, the National Asset Manager could have been a real solution for foreign exchange lenders. Nearly 23,000 apartments were offered to the National Asset Manager by the end of August 2014, so that more than 100,000 people were provided with housing. It is planned that by the end of this year 25 thousand apartments and 110,000 people will be safe. The soon-to-be forinting has many advantages. On the one hand, the exchange rate risk of borrowers and the banking system, as well as refunds and forinting, will reduce the repayments significantly. In addition to the payments much lower than before, the remaining capital debt of the debtors will also be significantly reduced. Because of the refunds, banks have to pay back 1100 billion forints to customers. An average currency-loan earns roughly one and a half million forints from the banks. On the other hand, without the forinting of the refunds made by the Curia's decision, the Swiss franc could easily disappear in the event of further strengthening, so after the forinting, there is no need to fear that the instalments will increase unpredictablely. Finally, it was necessary to forint foreign exchange loans on a market basis because if conversion had been carried out at a reduced rate, foreign exchange lenders would be significantly better off than forint lenders. Credit institutions also get rid of the risk posed by foreign exchange loans by forinting. In recent years, the Hungarian economy has grown so that banks have not helped businesses by lending. The government expects that by eliminating foreign exchange loans, there will be a chance that bank lending will start next year, which will support the investments and developments of Hungarian businesses, thereby contributing to GDP growth. With the forints, we can end the credit period of irresponsible economic and human tragedies caused by the policies of the governments of 2003-2010. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would now like to ask Ms Erzsébet Schmuck to explain the additional speeches that are not on the agenda.
u2015-02-20-21	Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, Ikotity, István LMP, spoke before the agenda on Monday: István Ikotity, LMP; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; József Tobias, MSZP; Lajos Kósa, Fidesz. On Monday Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; György Lukács, Jobbik; László Kiss, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; R. Benedict Sallai, LMP; István Ikotity, LMP; István Szávay, Jobbik. Dear Parliament, For Thursday, 26 February, the notice deadline for non-scheduled speeches will expire next week at 10 a.m., so it will be possible to present them at the beginning of Monday's meeting.
u2015-02-20-22	Thank you very much, notary. Dear Parliament, It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. When we adopt the agenda, we first decide on timeframes, then we decide on house rules and then we decide on the President's agenda. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. On this basis, the Speaker of the Parliament initiated that Hungary does not need immigrants for living, V/2956. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a four-hour time frame. The agenda shall include the time limits for the submission. At the request of Jobbik's group, the resolution on certain house rules was adopted on the basis of Article 37. Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. Now it's time for the decisions. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed by the Parliament within a four-hour time frame, in which Jobbik's timeframe will be doubled. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in the time frame by 138 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 1 abstention. I now ask Mr László Földi to explain the time frame for each faction.
u2015-02-20-23	Dear Parliament, The proposed four-hour timeframe is divided into 83 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group - a doubling of which in total 82 minutes - and 37 minutes for the KDNP Group, 25 minutes for the LMP Group and 8 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2015-02-20-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, During last week's House Committee meeting, during the preparation of the agenda, a four-hour proposal was made on the timeframe of the political debate on sustainability and sovereignty on the dangers and effects of the transatlantic investment and trade partnership. Yesterday, the LMP Group initiated the political debate in an eight-hour time frame. First, we will decide on the motion of the LMP Group, which includes an 8-hour timeframe. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the motion of the LMP Group. Please vote with the ballot-counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the motion by 38 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the four-hour timeframe in the agenda proposal. Please vote with the use of a voting machine as we speak. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal by 135 votes in favour, 18 against and 1 abstention. I would ask Ms Erzsébet Schmuck to explain the timeframes accordingly.
u2015-02-20-25	Dear Parliament, The proposed four-hour time frame is divided into 83 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 37 minutes for the KDNP Group, 25 minutes for the LMP Group, the doubling of which is a total of 50 minutes, and 8 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers. [[10.00]]
u2015-02-20-26	Thank you very much, notary. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. The House Committee is the 65th House Rule. It proposes to the House the following on the basis of its powers (paragraph 1) of this Article. Parliament on the dangers and impacts of the Transatlantic Investment and Trade Partnership on sustainability and sovereignty V/2258. In the course of the political debate proposed by Mr Navracsics, a member of the European Commission, after a statement by the representative of the Government, and at any time during the debate, for a total period of 15 minutes, without including his speaking time in the time frame. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, a vote of four fifths of the Members present is required. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote in accordance with rule number four. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the derogation from the house rule by 150 votes in favour, 2 votes against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I would like to inform you that the 2008 XL on gas supply. T/3116. The Parliament discusses bill No.3 as an EU item on the agenda. This was notified to MEPs in Hungary. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you, most visible. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. We will now continue our work with decisions. The 2003 XCII on the system of taxation follows a series of steps. Final vote of the bill amending the Law on the Electronic Road Traffic Control System. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3118. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 113 votes in favour, 3 against and 37 abstentions. The final vote of the bill on consumer loan contracts of financial institutions and on the amendment of other private law laws will now follow. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we will decide on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3117. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 148 votes, not votes, with four abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken. Now it's time for the interpellation trial. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. What is going on under the leadership of Sándor Fazekas at the Ministry of Agriculture? It's an address. On behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Sándor Fazekas, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, will respond to the interpellation. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-02-20-27	Thank you for the floor. Although I have written my interpellation to Viktor Orbán, who, apparently, does not care what goes on in his own ministry; since 2010, the same person has led the Ministry of Rural Development and later the Ministry of Agriculture: Sándor Fazekas. The first case: in the 2009 tax year more than 177 thousand conscious taxpayers offered 1 percent for deflecting ragweed. After the appointment of Minister Sándor Fazekas, he allowed it to be used in a rather flexible way, in short, to spend it on something other than what they were given. In 2014, they admitted their crime by squandering this money and giving it back. The question is whether this will have any further legal consequences, and it will be responsible, although it is not fashionable for you. The second case: At the beginning of 2014, the news revealed that there were serious pollutants on the border of Hortobágy National Park. State Secretary Zoltán Illés said that he wrote a report to the government three times, but Sándor Fazekas dropped the issue. If that's the case, it's an abuse of office. The third case: we don't even know who Sándor Fazekas was and who didn't. The Minister's reply to Tamás Harangozó's written question shows that István Horváth mayor of Szekszárd took action from the beginning of 2013 for a year and a half as Minister's Commissioner responsible for the pig programme, that he was only appointed in August 2014 and even when he could not have created such an employment as a Traficost Mayor. Finally, here is Szilárd Kiss, who was the Minister of Eastern Economic Relations for nearly three years until 14 December 2014, in the case of the Orgovány and Vádéke Savings Association. The official act on the appointment cannot be found anywhere. Szilárd Kiss is the person with whom Sándor Fazekas said that he was not in direct contact with work, but he still recognised his work as a ministerial diploma by Sándor Fazekas. Then what's it based on? The Prime Minister doesn't seem to see what's going on in his own government: one percent of his taxpayers are being squandered, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, Minister Sándor Fazekas is covering up violations of law, illegal appointments, Minister of State arrest in advance. After so many embarrassing scandals, it would be time for Viktor Orbán to acquit Sándor Fazekas, but he seems to have access to corruption, prior arrest and similar scandals in the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm sorry you put the Secretary of State in such an awkward position that you have to protect your own boss in connection with this time of indefensibility when you weren't his secretary of state. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-02-20-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. István Nagy State Secretary is next. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-29	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, Allow me, at the very beginning of my reply, to reject in the strongest possible way all the words you use to judge the work that is going on in our ministry. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Allow me to answer your question. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] all the questions that you have raised, since we have already provided detailed information on this in some form and separately, but we are now reviewing what you have said. The Public Finance Act in force in 2011 stated that the body managing the chapter may decide to transfer the appropriations managed by the chapter within a given heading, in order to meet the additional expenditure incurred during the year, which is not related to the original purpose of the appropriations in question. I would like to emphasise, therefore, that the Minister for Rural Development at the time has made a regular decision to transfer the ragweed appropriations in the budget of the portfolio within the chapter; not uniquely, the socialist governments have used this option before and have applied this method. Nevertheless, as the Member said, at the end of last year the government repaid the total amount with a one-off transfer of HUF 642 million. We are currently in the process of evaluating the announced proposals - with which we will return the funds to civil society organisations - and soon there will be a result announcement and a wide-ranging social and professional debate in the Ministry on a new action plan against ragweed. I can assure you that our wallet will act with all the means available, but the cost of disposal will be borne by the owner of the waste. [[10.10]] If the cause of the pollution is eliminated without successor, then the State will take over this task. The real problem, my dear Member, is that it has become accepted at the level of communication that, after an activity that endangers the environment, the government has to endure. It has become almost natural for the environmental company to liquidate itself and the consequences have to be resolved with public money. The competent environmental inspectorate has taken all necessary measures in the case. Due to the measures, pollution did not leave the premises, and the inspectorate filed a police report at the competent police station. Forgive me, Congresswoman, but the low-level attack on the person of Minister István Horváth is incomprehensible to me. István Horváth's work is recognised by the whole sector, which is expressed in numbers by the increase in pig numbers. I would like to emphasise [[Noise in the benches of MSZP.]] that during the period in question István Horváth carried out his mandate on the basis of a credentials, in social work, without any benefits. [[???Dr. Harangozó Tamás Attila: Törvénytelenül.???]] On behalf of former ministerial commissioner Szilárd Kiss, I would like to point out that his criminal case is not related to his work for the Ministry. The investigating authorities are entitled to make a statement on the procedure, which the Ministry does not wish to comment on. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The outstanding work of our portfolio is also confirmed by the report of KSH on Friday 13 February: GDP increased by 3.4 percent in Hungary in the fourth quarter of 2014, which was significantly influenced by the improvement in agricultural performance. I think all those professionals who work in the Ministry have done their best to help and improve the Hungarian national economy with this result. Thank you for your questions. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-20-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman Anita Heringes if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-31	Unfortunately, I cannot accept Mr Secretary's reply. It's very embarrassing that you have to protect your boss. I understand this is a very unpleasant situation, but you squandered it, covered it up, and illegally appointed ministerial commissioners. Szilárd Kiss had a C-type screening. If this isn't related to the case, we should know how he could have been appointed or even appointed, shouldn't we? And now about the indefensible. Even István Tiba, Member of Parliament of the District, said that it is measured in young people whether health is damaged, and that the water and the earth are full of toxic substances and metals. We have also brought to Viktor Orbán: the enthusiastic representative of Balmazújváros, our Member of Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, will put it on the table. [[Noise, interruptions in the pro-government benches.]] The only task they have is to exonerate Sándor Potter, nothing else. I'm being unfairly appointed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You're gonna cover me up, you're gonna squander me! I don't think he can stay in the government.
u2015-02-20-32	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask whether the Honourable Parliament will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote. Applause in the pro-government benches.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 94 votes to 26, with no abstentions. [[István Németh Szilárd takes the water and land placed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély from the Prime Minister's table, and then hands it over to the staff of the Office. It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: what measures does the government intend to take in order to prevent future cases involving foreign influence such as the Norwegian Civil Fund? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Interpellation will be answered by Mr János Lázár, Head of Prime Minister's Office with responsibility and competence. Now it's Congressman János Volner's turn to speak.
u2015-02-20-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We have been aware for a very long time that the Hungarian Left lives on foreign money, has political activity with foreign money [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] campaigning on foreign money. I note that this does not change either if left-wing fellow Members listen to my speech screaming, and I will not be particularly disturbed, to be honest. [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] At the time when we read in the press about government control activities around the Norwegian Civil Fund, I must admit, at first we didn't know what the basis was, and then later we learned the facts. It turns out from the government investigation that a narrow organization linked to the LMP, the Eco-partner Foundation, [[???Dr. Schiffer András: Miről beszélsz????]] participates in the funds allocated to them by the Norwegian Civil Fund, and in this way more than 500 million forints were collected virtually linked to the LMP [[???Dr. Schiffer András: Miről mesélsz????]] the form of a party foundation and individuals linked to the LMP. [[???Dr. Schiffer András: Hogyan? Hová? Nagy zaj. Az elnök csenget.???]] It can also be seen that there were clear and demonstrable personal relationships in 21 cases out of 55 that the Government Control Office could immediately determine; personalities related to the left and LMP were either a critic or a beneficiary of these funds, such as Kaufer Virág, Zsuzsa Foltányi, Veronika Móra, or Szabó Timea who has since left the LMP to the PM, or even an MSZP representative received this money: Éva Matiszlovicsné Horváth. The Norwegian Fund has also generously supported political organizations for liberal purposes such as the Roma Press Centre or the student organization representing itself as independent, the Student Network, or even the Human Platform organization also known as liberal. Of the 63 projects under investigation, 61 cases of clear irregularities were identified: misappropriation, fiscal fraud, unauthorized financial activity are among the facts of the finding. I would like to remind the Minister that we were the party who made the family members' declarations of property public to Members, and that we were the ones who in all cases demanded that the government protect Hungary's sovereignty from attempts to gain influence abroad, and that it should be very hard to prevent such things from happening. I ask you: Minister, what have you done in recent times to prevent other states from influencing Hungarian internal politics? Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The question, as we have heard, will be answered by Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2015-02-20-35	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the interpellation of our fellow Member, let me draw the attention of all my fellow Members to the fact that in Hungary, in the last 25 years, we have seen the operation of Hungarian civil society as an extremely important core value in modern democracy, and there has been a complete consensus between these parliamentary parties over the past 25 years. There are 80,000 Hungarian civil society organisations, to which voters are also sacrificing, as they can support these civil society organisations by 1 percent of their personal income tax, and in 2015 the Hungarian government and legislation will provide HUF 5.6 billion to civilians through the budget with the help of the National Cooperation Fund. So in Hungary, the civil sector, civil life and all the work that they do in local or national communities are a priority for all of us, which is why we need to be careful about the issue, but with sufficient thoroughness and due consideration. A judgment that would be premature, we cannot bring, since this could jeopardise confidence in the civil sector, but there are worrying phenomena. Maybe we should start with transparency. The Ambassador of the United States of America to Brussels recently said that transparency is not a one-way street where only governments need to clarify their goals, transparency must work in both directions. Criticism must be transparent, especially with regard to NGOs, civilians, in terms of how they are financed. The US Ambassador accredited to Brussels is surprised at the small scale of the transparency of civil society organisations, NGOs, who finance them in Europe. It points out that in the United States, the funder of all civil society organisations is obliged to disclose the support and the civil society organisation itself. As far as the declarations of assets are concerned, Congressman, I would like to answer this question here. The government's position is this. In Hungary, everyone who makes a decision or is in a position to influence a decision must make a declaration of assets in the next period. We believe that civil society organisations are able to influence decisions at local or national level, so they must strictly account for the source of the support, make this public, and civil society organisations should also be subject to transparency as regards the financial conditions of managers. If political parties or politicians have to account for their wealth, state aids, support from civilians or individuals, then it is expected that groups or NGOs that are otherwise capable of influencing political decisions will account for their assets and disclose who they receive the money from. [[10.20]] Let me draw the attention of my fellow Members to a shocking case, so that it is not just the Norwegian case. A few days ago, he was sentenced to three years in prison and for three years the General Court of Debrecen banned Ference Zsák, who first requested 30 and then 200 million forints from the Audi in Győr in order to withdraw the permit to use the environment. During the procedure, in which the police used secret tools, Ferenc Zsák asked for a HUF 72 million detail within three days in order to withdraw the review request. When Audi promised to pay him, proving what was going on, he withdrew the request for review, and then the police started. I believe that what Kehi has experienced with Hungarian civilians managing the Norwegian Fund - and this comment does not concern the Norwegian Government and not the intentions or plans of the Norwegian Government in Hungary - or what we have seen in some environmental matters, or what we have seen in the operation of some of the NGOs, can confirm us all that civil society organisations and everyone who can influence decisions in Hungary have to account for who they receive the money from and their personal assets. Thank you very much for your questions. [[???Harangozó Gábor István: Nektek is! Taps a kormánypártok padsoraiból.???]]
u2015-02-20-36	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask the Member if he will accept the Minister's reply.
u2015-02-20-37	Minister, I cannot accept your answer, which is because Jobbik's representatives have been the only Members of the parliamentary parties to date who have made their family members' declarations of property public. And also because we have repeatedly called the government's attention and even presented you with a bill to prevent similar foreign campaign money from being taken by the National Assembly by law. In this case, it can also be shown that 61 out of 63 cases included irregularities in the application of different methods of assessment, and that the personal involvement of politicians linked to MSZP, PM or LMP in a case where 500 million forints were distributed to these people from abroad. As long as the government side doesn't settle this issue by law, I'm not at liberty to accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-02-20-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Member did not accept the Minister's reply. I therefore ask whether the Honourable Parliament will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the ministerial reply with 106 yes, 11 no votes and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, the notary of the Parliament, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-02-20-39	Dear Secretary of State, On 26 September 2014, the European Union announced the conclusion of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Convention, CETA, with Canada. In this far-reaching free trade agreement, like the upcoming US-EU Free Trade Convention, we will find a dispute settlement mechanism for the investor state. This could pave the way for corporate litigation against Canada, the EU and the EU Member States and seriously undermine efforts to protect citizens and the environment. This dispute resolution mechanism gives foreign companies the opportunity to sue countries in international arbitrations if they make rules that threaten their profits. The Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the EU is also a risk to the richer countries of the EU, but it can have tragic consequences for Hungary. Free trade agreements typically favour strong economies, while in weaker countries jobs are lost, local profits are exported. The markets of Hungarian companies and farmers could be at risk, and laws protecting people's health and nature could be weakened. To give just one example: if CETA enters into force, Canadian investors can force the Romanian government to authorise the cyanide-tech verespataki gold mine. We already know that the US-EU Free Trade Agreement is prepared in secret behind closed doors, but unfortunately, they have also acted in the same way as the Canada-EU Free Trade Convention announced in September. Dear Secretary of State, How could you have been involved in the preparation of CETA, but did you not share any information about the details of the convention with the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian people? Please state whether the Hungarian Government is ready to refuse to ratify CETA.
u2015-02-20-40	Thank you very much, notary. The answer will be given by State Secretary Levente Magyar. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-41	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We welcome the way the LMP is watching over the protection of foreign trade interests in Hungary, but I would like to reassure the Member and the LMP Group that the government, as has been shown by diplomatic events in recent weeks, represents these interests with irresistible and uncompromising consistency, even at the cost of taking up diplomatic conflicts. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In recent weeks, we have had an intense debate on free trade agreements, and on several occasions we have supported our position that the Hungarian people, Hungarian entrepreneurs and the Hungarian economy have the smallest, the least to fear from free trade agreements that have been concluded or are being negotiated. There are three main reasons for this beyond the numbers. In fact, Hungary has a government that is willing to stop these free trade agreements even during the ratification phase if they are not in perfect harmony with the interests of Hungarian businesses, the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society. Secondly, honourable Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungary has taken an intensive part in the preparation of these free trade negotiations and is already in the preparatory phase in order to ensure that Hungarian interests appear in these agreements without compromise. As far as the specific issue is concerned, I would like to inform you that, in view of Article 207 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in the context of negotiations under trade policy, the European Commission is empowered and guided by the Council on the position to be taken in the negotiations, so that Hungary can express its position at this stage as well. It is the Commission's duty to report regularly on the progress of the negotiations. In addition, the Commission regularly places current information on its website on all free trade agreements between the EU and third countries, including CETA and TTIP, on which we will be able to exchange views in a full-day debate next week. The procedure under this Article applies to all agreements negotiated by the EU, including CETA and TTIP. As I informed you in my reply to your previous written question relating to CETA, the draft text of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the EU and Canada was made available on the Commission's website at the time of the announcement of the conclusion of the negotiations, i.e. the EU-Canadian Summit on 26 September 2014. Given that the full text of the agreement of nearly 1500 pages is available, it cannot be claimed that no information on the details of the agreement is available. I would add that the CETA negotiations started in May 2009, which was regularly reported by the Commission in various fora, including the EP, as well as the various prospectuses published on the website. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government is convinced that the Hungarian economy is so strong, that it is in such a condition, that it is in such a state of preparation that it can withstand competition in the world's most demanding and competitive markets, and we firmly believe in this, and the figures support this. Finally, I would like to express my agreement with you, honourable Member, that, knowing and considering the details of the agreement to be tabled, the Hungarian Parliament will indeed have to take a responsible decision on the ratification of CETA. The Hungarian Government, as I indicated, is ready to block ratification if the convention does not coincide perfectly [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Hungarian interests. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-02-20-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[10.30]]
u2015-02-20-43	Thank you very much. I do not accept the Secretary of State's reply. First of all, I would like to say that it takes a great deal of confidence to say that the Hungarian economy will stand up in the great international free trade competition and will come out victorious. The other thing I would like to stress is that LMP does not want to look after the foreign economic interests of the Hungarian government, but is looking after the interests of the Hungarian people. You said that you were intensively involved in the preparation, but it was very interesting then that you kept secrets the same way as the European Commission did. A huge international campaign had to unfold in order to learn something about the free trade agreement between the US and the EU. I cannot accept the answer, and we do not agree with the way they secretly wish to accept these conventions above the heads of the people.
u2015-02-20-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, notary. As we heard, he didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 25 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Hadházy, a representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Who can feel a reduction in the repayments due to the HUFing of foreign currency loans on his wallet? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Hadházy has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-45	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP fraction association and the Hungarian government have been working since 2010 to facilitate the lives of citizens with foreign exchange loans, leading these credit schemes out of the market. Following the introduction of the final repayment, the exchange rate barrier and the National Asset Management Institution, last summer Parliament raised the principles of the Curia as laid down in the legal unit decision to the legal level, i.e. the interpretation of the Curia became universal and binding for everyone. Thus, the law exempts foreign exchange lenders from the start of proceedings and obligates banks to settle with debtors unfairly collected overpayments using the exchange rate gap and unilateral contractual amendments. The settlement is subject to a strict deadline, which ensures the swift execution of the accounts. At the same time as the settlement, the Forinting Act makes the forinting mandatory in the most vulnerable, sensitive area for citizens, for housing in the case of mortgage loans. This exchange rate was set at HUF 256 for Swiss francs in 47 pennies, HUF 308 forints for the euro in 97 pennies and HUF 2,163 for the Japanese yen. The decision of the Swiss central bank to stop protecting the exchange rate of francs against appreciation makes the question particularly timely: what schedule is the accounting and forinting of banks? Dear Secretary of State, Based on what schedule is the nearly 500 thousand loan contracts forinted? When does an average foreign exchange loaner pay less? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Répássy Robert. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the Forinting Act is the continuation of the measures contained in the Accounting Act, with the exception that the Forinting Act did not raise the principles of the Curia's legal unit decision to the legal level, but, after the settlement of the settlement law, eliminated the uncertainty arising from the exchange rate fluctuations in the case of the most vulnerable, most sensitive consumer circle, it provided predictable, favourable conditions for further repayment of the debt. As you mentioned, there are approximately 500,000 families in this circle. When will the foreign exchange lenders on their wallets feel the effects of this forinting? - the congressman asks. According to the law, the instalments payable in 2015 should be converted into HUF at the rate already laid down by law. The first decrease was therefore already reflected in the January instalment. The settlement and forinting date was uniformly 1 February 2015, given that the settlement and forinting concern a significant number of contracts, the contractual adjustments could not have been completed by the financial institutions in one day. In view of this, the Accounting Act sets a deadline for sending the settlement, which is also linked to the information on the forinting, as it will be informed simultaneously of the overpayment of the consumer in connection with the fulfilment of the clearing obligation and of the conversion of the debt into HUF in the case of foreign currency and foreign currency loan agreements secured by mortgages. Therefore, the fall in the instalments in January is exclusively due to the fixing of the exchange rate, and the reduction in the repayment due for settlement and forinting will, according to the main rule, start from the establishment of the instalment due in May 2015. Of course, for the period from February to May, only reduced instalments can be accounted for by the financial institution, so the banks will account for their customers for this period. Several factors may influence the reduction in the instalments, so the amount of credit that the consumer took on, the length of the loan, the length of the loan; the length of the loan; the length of the loan, whether the loan was affected by any bail-out package, the benefit granted by the financial institution, and, if so, to what extent; the financial institution used the possibility of unilateral interest rate, fee and cost increases, when, how often, to what extent; and finally, the exchange rate gap applied by the financial institution. Based on the data of the central bank, the reduction in debt for performing Swiss franc mortgage loans is as follows: approximately 13 per cent of consumers can expect a debt reduction of over 30 per cent, 25 per cent of consumers can expect a debt reduction of almost 17 per cent, 20 per cent to 25 per cent, 15 to 20 per cent of consumers can expect a debt reduction of nearly 25 per cent, 10 to 15 per cent of consumers can expect a debt reduction and between 0 and 10 per cent of consumers can expect a reduction. So, Congressman, this is a reduction of about 500,000 families. Thank you very much for the opportunity to give you the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2015-02-20-49	Thank you very much, I accept the answer, and I appreciate the work that has been done so far in this area, but I would also like to draw attention to the fact that many people are affected by this measure, and it is very important that the banks send accounts to those concerned, which clearly, clearly and succinctly include the development of the HUF loan, the development of the debt and the amount returned. With all due respect, let's do our best to do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: "Nothing instead of Aid? ! It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, If I remember correctly, the slogan was first that instead of aid, it developed a job, and later it developed a community service instead of aid, and now I see it as a slogan for community service on the government side. From March, there will be nothing: no local government aid, no housing support, no debt reduction aid, and we even know that they will eliminate the type of care and public health care that can be given out of fairness, and there will not be regular social assistance in this form as it has been before. [[10.40]] To look at the exact meaning of this, let's look at the numbers. The local government aid, which previously reported three other benefits, helped those in need in all 850 thousand cases in one year, and in 98 percent of the cases, it did not mean more than HUF 6-7 thousand, but it was a great help to these people, and it did not particularly burden the government's register, it was intended for HUF 6.5 billion. The housing support - either half a million families - got it or not - I stress: half a million families received it - the average monthly amount was less than HUF 4,000, and it amounted to HUF 21 billion. This will also be terminated on 1 March. The debt reduction aid has helped far less, barely more than ten thousand families, but for them there was at least one such help. Nor did the budget cost a lot of money, some a billion forints were earmarked for this item in the previous year. Local governments have been spending less and less on care fees and public health services for a long time, and they do not have the money. In 2012, the Széll Kálmán 2 project deducted approximately HUF 10 billion from the local government's aid register, with reference to the poor distribution of equity aid, although, in my opinion, in the midst of the crisis, this item should have been increased and not reduced. In 2010, HUF 4.3 billion was added to providing care for those who care for their senior relatives for equity, and in 2013 only HUF 2.6 billion, the lot was roughly halved. The only 10,000 people's benefits will also disappear on 1 March. [[???Közbeszólás az MSZP soraiból: Botrányos!???]] The patient, often helping elderly people, was affected by a fair public health care of 36,000 people. I ask the Secretary of State whether they do not think that, by abolishing these financial transfers, they will promote poverty, poverty, and not the people and not the municipal authorities. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government hasn't changed their position in the last four and a half years. We believe that, and for all those in need, we want to outline this vision and show that we want to offer everyone a job instead of aid. Some people would also get market jobs, but some people would not be able to work on the market, probably because they have not had a job for 5-10 years or have no job experience. To them, through Start's work system, through public works, the way back to the world of market work, and to others, we strive with the job protection action plan, and we have helped hundreds of thousands of people to keep their jobs. That is what we continue to strive for. We believe that it is impossible to imagine a minimum level of poverty in Hungary. [[???Gúr Nándor: A „szegénység” szót nem használjuk! Nem tudod????]] Without doing so for full employment, full employment is the way, the instrument, the opportunity to reduce poverty to the minimum in Hungary. Although I must add that, thanks to the policy of the past four years, the number of people who are in some way at risk of poverty has fallen by 241 thousand; there are now almost a quarter million fewer people living in danger of difficult financial conditions. This comes from many parts, for example, the number of people struggling with payment backlogs has decreased by 130,000 in the last four and a half years; the number of people living in apartments that are not properly heated, so those who were in the cold in winter, their share has also decreased by 250,000. One part of this is obviously now working with 400,000 more people than four years ago, and the number of unemployed people has also fallen by 150,000, and the other part is obviously a reduction in wages so that people can pay their bills more easily. This mainly meant that the proportion of people in need was reduced in the area of pensioners. While the number of people at risk of poverty in the European Union is 13.8 percent, in Hungary it is a total of 4.4 percent. But in the same way, the free access to textbooks helps people in need, which also means tens of thousands of HUF expenditure cuts. In the same way, it helps them that in kindergarten and school meals this government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, doubled the amount of subsidies from 29 billion to 58 billion forints, which it provides for free and reduced school and public education meals. This goes completely against the policy that the MSZP had previously conducted, since in 2007, in the budget at that time, you reduced the support of those in social institutions by HUF 30,000 per head. In the same way, the then socialist government reduced the support of these needy people by HUF 100,000. He also took a month's wages from the workers there, and said that the neighbors and friends would supply these people, but not the social security system. We are indeed transforming the social support system from 1 March. There are income compensatory subsidies, which are now fully automatically and 100% borne by the state, they are received through the district government offices, so the municipalities do not have to add their own share; some have 10 percent, some have higher, 30-40 percent are the own share added by the municipalities. This burden will be less for the municipalities later, and the State will fully undertake it. However, subsidies to compensate for expenditure are transferred to the municipalities as they are better aware of the daily standard of living of these people. Obviously, no one would want someone to arrive with Mercedes for some support, as many have heard. Get to those who really need it. At the same time, we know that not all municipalities are able to manage this, which is why in the central budget with low tax capacity [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] We have set up a 30 billion extra item for municipalities with a holding capacity, and they can receive HUF 5 billion extra self-hiking support from the Ministry of the Interior, so that settlement grants are covered by the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-54	Thank you very much. I ask Congressman Lajos Korózs if he will accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2015-02-20-55	I'll let you know I won't accept the answer. Well, the paper can handle a lot of things, Mr. Secretary. Look, in the last government term, as I was counting, over 300 billion forints were withdrawn from the social security system. If we talk about the latter, in 2014 there was HUF 99 billion on the budget section, and two thirds of it will be taken this year. It is a rather slim consolation that 30 billion forints were put into tender money, because even if I add the two together, it is still 40 billion forints. So this was specifically removed from the supply system. That's one thing. The other one. Look, if local authorities can provide social aid depending on their capacity to levy taxes, there will be no local government in this country that can grant some kind of aid. Losing Development Resources [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] and it will launch an internal migration in the country, because where there is still some social security, these people will flow there. I don't accept the answer.
u2015-02-20-56	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 105 yes, 29 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: when will an effective action be taken instead of a mediator role? It's an address. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-57	Mr President, Dear House, Over the last year, the government has covered the public areas of Hungary with its billboards many times, that they have accounted for the banks, that they have put in place a system behind which there is a decade of failure. The fact is, however, that two very serious social groups have been left out of the arrangement, who are now under very, very heavy strain from the terrible rate of the Swiss franc. The government has sent a message to the owner of 250,000 car credit contracts and to the family members behind them, as well as to the holder of some 300 thousand free-use loans, that they will not be helped by practical steps and will then act as a mediator. More precisely, since then, this statement by László Trócsányi has been supplemented by the Government's proposal to reduce the increased burden on car-crediters, since the Cabinet no longer plans to intervene in this area and plans no amendment. [[10.50]] These amazing words mean that not only the financial scam of the century, foreign currency fraud, is affecting car-crediters and owners of free-use loans very hard, but in the present case - when home-crediters appear to have been helped by the government, but in practice only prevented their burdens from becoming even more severe - they tell this entire social group that we might be communicating. In the event that the banks, the Banking Association, are decorated to offer some kind of solution, we will convey it. The fact is, once again, wolves are expected to switch to vegetarianism, and once again they expect the market or someone else to resolve this issue instead of your actions. They will say that they have often responded to the fact that, six times in recent years, we have had the foreign exchange loan package before us, how much you have helped us. I don't want it to be taken as a matter of fact that the current very rough drop in the exchange rate could be reduced for certain groups. But how can certain groups not? So 250,000 plus 300,000 people are being held in a position to send them a clear message, not to help. The government of Hungary does not help these people, and with an amazing two-thirds mandate, they say that they are weak to intervene in these completely unfair, not exactly market-like processes, where the exchange rate absorption is only a consequence. A decade of financial fraud is the basis for what we call foreign currency lending, and the effects of which they do have a dog duty to protect Hungarian citizens. Instead, what are they doing? A pact will be concluded with the Banking Association on the reduction of the bank tax, on the introduction of the eviction quota and the private failing institution according to the taste of the banks. So the question is whether you will have the courage to help hundreds of thousands of Hungarians left on the side of the road. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Perhaps it would be worth a moment to return to the legacy of the Fidesz-KDNP government in 2010, which was the most serious legacy in Europe in terms of foreign exchange loans, since no country in Europe has been indebted to people in the same way in foreign currency loans, mainly in Swiss francs and euros as in Hungary. Of course, there is also a reason for this, the socialist governments have been irresponsible in helping people to take on foreign exchange loans, and then the unfortunate consequences of which have been met by the Fidesz government. As early as 2010, the government clearly stated that it was going to stop foreign exchange lending, so it took the appropriate steps and also stated that it was helping people who took out mortgage loans and foreign exchange loans. He considers it a priority to help families who have bought, modernised, or expanded their homes. So we're talking about a million 300,000 families, a contract, so that's how many people we've had to help. No one can argue that the results of the government's actions, which it has taken in the past four and five years, are very serious, because today we can essentially say that foreign exchange lending, at least as far as individuals are concerned, has been driven out of the market in its entirety and has been abolished, as this year is about accounting, HUFing, and the future fair bank law. But if we look at the fact that the government has taken over the credit of the municipalities and has also reduced foreign exchange exposure in terms of public debt, then I think that there are very serious results. Indeed, the problem you mentioned exists that car loan holders, leasing lenders, consumer credit takers are not covered by the decision of the government or Parliament. This is 13 percent of all borrowers, by the way. On the other hand, for example, the forinting will affect 700,000 people, a contract, and HUF 3600 billion will be HUF. I believe that, in a large part of the problem, from the point of view of private people and families, the government has been able to help and solve the difficulties. In terms of motor vehicle loans, the situation is not so bad compared to the announcement of the Swiss central bank, because at that time the exchange rate of the Swiss franc was around 340 HUF, and this morning's exchange rate is 282 HUF. So the situation is better now, even if it hasn't returned to that level. Moreover, according to a statement from the president of the leasing association, the problem is not that big, since there is a maximum of two years left for car loans to expire, so it is not a matter of long-term commitments of 10, 15 or 20 years. This does not mean that this is not a problem from a social point of view, it is a problem for these people, but it is not as far-reaching as we have left behind a problem, a problem, in Hungarian: as the difficulties of people who have taken out mortgages in foreign currency. This question was settled by the government. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-61	Mr President, Dear House, The answer cannot be accepted because, in essence, there was a sentence about what I asked, and this answer was something that said that it was not such a problem in Hungary with 250,000 motor vehicle credit, because it is not a long-term commitment, according to you. This proves that they are completely separated from reality, and they do not feel what the 15-20 thousand HUF monthly increase of the average Hungarian tax-paying citizen means. That you don't feel it is one thing, but that your government, your experts and your entire system don't feel it is outrageous. When we talk about what you inherited in 2010, you inherited a Swiss franc exchange rate of less than 200 forints, which is essentially moving there. If loans had then been HUFed at the rate of the day of admission along Jobbik's request, they would have saved the victims a thousand billion-dollar sum. On the other hand, what are they doing? It's credited to banks' accounts, legalizing the financial fraud and the robbery of the century, which is a disgrace and a disgrace. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes to 21, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the National Assembly, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When will the government bring back the possibility of early retirement? It's an address. Congressman Nándor Gúr has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The early retirement pension, as we know, ended on 31 December 2014. You can talk about something else, you can say otherwise, but this institutional system is virtually dead, from 1 January you can't get an age allowance, even though people work under working conditions, in an employment relationship that provides a basis for this. Tens of thousands of people have been deprived of this opportunity, contrary to any common sense, because these people have basically done their work at jobs that are harmful to health. Many of these health-damaging jobs have not ceased, the working conditions have not changed there, and I can even say that in the last five years they have not improved, they have not become more favourable, but the discount has been reduced by you, it has been taken away from the people. What's in these people's heads when that happens to them? They're terrified. They're terrified, because if they can't get more legal time and discounts at the age of 55-60, they'll have to face the fact that if they lose their jobs, their job opportunities, they'll just be stuck until the retirement period, and the pension becomes unattainable to them, and the job is impossible. Anyone who knows a little about the labour market knows that it is not people over the age of 50, 55 or 60 who can re-enter the labour market. But there's another message, if you think about it. This also has a message for the younger age group, since the legal institution that has been operating for decades and could give us legal time, which allowed the employee to gain legal time, you have laundered it with a momentum and washed it out. [[11.00]] There is no legal certainty in this sense at a time of your government. The other message is that they, too, are obviously more difficult to find. And the message for them is that if there is work, it makes sense to think about living their lives at home. If there is no work, then they earn their livelihood elsewhere, abroad; you know, Matolcsy says that the 500 thousand people who are now talking about 600 thousand are the same people, and they rightly support it. After all, all I can do is ask you when to review this wrong decision. When will they change it, when will there be a legal opportunity again, an age discount for these people? I'm asking the responder not to bullshit, to answer the question. Don't worry about what happened before. From January 1st, there's no legal time. That's what you're talking about. Answer me that. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-20-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-65	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The decisive steps concerning the termination of the early retirement scheme were started by you, the Hungarian Socialist Party, in 2006, when the job list for the benefit was repealed and the burden of financing the early retirement scheme was partly passed on to employers. So you've already recognized that the congressman is smiling at her now. So you have also recognised that Hungary's pension system has become increasingly unsustainable, one of the reasons for which is that many experienced and vibrant people who have not yet reached the retirement age, who would still have had a place among active workers, have retired prematurely. Or am I asking you, Congressman, do you agree that 36-38-year-olds are retiring and working again from the next day, not God, in the same job, and that their pensions are being taken away from someone else in the labour market? Do you agree with that? [[On the sign of Nándor Gúr:]] You agree, I see. You are aware that the early retirement allowance has not been part of the pension scheme since 1 January 2012, given that, as a main rule, old-age pensions can only be fixed from the retirement age, except for full old-age pensions, regardless of age, women who have at least 40 years of entitlement are still entitled to a full-age pension. Early retirement pensions, including early retirement pensions, have become pre-age benefits from 2012 onwards, with changes in the rules, the government's aim was to ensure that workers work as much as possible until the retirement age, and to eliminate premature withdrawal from the world of work. What you have said about young people's employment opportunities, in comparison with the employment opportunities of older workers, I would like to say here that the government is helping young people aged 15-24 to work with various means. Their unemployment rate is 18.3 percent, which decreased by 6.8 percent to the same period in 2010. There are now 273 000 people at work, which means 24,6 percent employment. The government has taken several serious steps towards this, such as the first job guarantee programme or the Youth Guarantee programme, which will be introduced gradually. Honourable Congressman, I would like to stress that about 10,000 people receiving early care will continue to receive the allowance for them, and they will not take away their rights. The benefit is still available in the form of a pre-age benefit, without a time limit, which you know very well. It is also clear that the competitive sphere and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government concluded on 29 December 2014 an agreement to review the programme and the possibility of improving the situation of workers working under high physical or psychological stress working conditions. With the establishment of a working committee, representatives of this government and of the competition sphere began to work. So this kind of work is going on within the government. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-20-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Nándor Gúr whether he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2015-02-20-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. No! No, but it's more of an opinion. Tell this to the people working in the primary sector in Paks, tell the young people, those who have to live their lives abroad as some 350 thousand economic refugees. Tell them, don't try to make us believe this here. While the Orbán government, in my belief, lives a parasite around the necks of people, on the other hand, pursues the activities of serving the enrichment of their own, their pereputies, their buddies, until then, Mr. Secretary of State, there are a lot of people in this country who are miserable. Talk to Vida Ildiko. Tell NAV that 4.3 million people who pay personal income tax live below the minimum living age. You know, you're taking away the benefits of health-damaging jobs from people. It's a shame what you're doing, I have to say. I cannot accept your answer, and I ask you not to lie, let anyone steal, cheat, lie. No! They should strive to be in the best interests of the people, so to govern. That's not what you're doing. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-20-68	Thank you very much. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 98 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 11:07, we're at the end of the interpellation period. We now have the political debate on the "Hungary does not need immigrants for a living" that was initiated by Antal Rogán and his fellow Members. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/2956. has been received by my fellow Members. I would ask Mr László Földi to explain the course of the political debate.
u2015-02-20-69	Dear Parliament, I'll let you know the course of the debate. First, a statement by representatives of the Government will take place for a total period of 40 minutes. I would like to remind you that the Parliament has adopted a derogation from house rules, which means that, after presenting the government's position, and then, at any time during the debate, in a 15-minute time frame, Mr Tibor Navracsics, a member of the European Commission, will take the floor. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes. Then the first independent Member may speak. Further speeches are then possible within the remaining timeframe. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-02-20-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. The statement by Tibor Navracsics, a member of the European Commission, is not included in the timeframe. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. Point of order speeches shall not, mutatis mutandis, be included in the time frame. In the Chamber Information Board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Ms Erzsébet Schmuck to explain the timeframes.
u2015-02-20-71	Dear Parliament, The proposed four-hour timeframe is divided into 83 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 37 minutes for the KDNP Group, 25 minutes for the LMP Group and 8 minutes for the independent Members. [[11.10]] The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers. Tibor Navracsics, a member of the European Commission, can speak in a 15-minute time frame in addition to the timeframe.
u2015-02-20-72	Dear Parliament, The government's debate launch is now taking place in a 40-minute time frame. In doing so, I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, who will tell the debater from here on the platform. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for putting the issue of subsistence immigration on the agenda at the initiative of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association. It is an important issue, which rightly employs Hungarian people, the Hungarian public. Its effects in Hungary go beyond, affect neighbouring countries, affect Europe as a whole, affect our security, affect our daily lives. We are talking about a problem that requires immediate and decisive action by all of us. In support of the gravity of the case, allow me to highlight some data. This year, 30,436 people have been caught by the police for illegal border crossings, of which 25,468 are from Kosovo. 26 746 persons, of which 22 618 Kosovo immediately requested recognition as refugees. While the number of asylum seekers in the European Union increased by 30 per cent in 2013, the rate of growth in Hungary is 800 per cent, I repeat: 800 per cent. In 2012 only 2157, in 2013, 18 900 asylum applications were submitted and in 2014 42 777 asylum seekers were registered by the asylum authority. The increase in the number of applications continues this year, as until today - in 2015 it has been 50 days, so in 50 days - 26 746 people have applied for asylum. Think about it, only in 2014, a refugee over the population of a town the size of Salgótarján arrived in Hungary, this year a mass of Siófok flooded our southern border. In recent years, Hungary has faced an enormous amount of illegal migration and asylum pressures. Most refugees are not real refugees, there is no war in their country, they are not persecuted, their families, they are not in danger of life because of their nationality, religion or political religion, they come from a safe country. They start out of their homeland for economic reasons, with a view to making a better living. Living immigrants thus abuse the protection provided by international law. Hungary is still a transit country today. In many cases, immigrants stay in Hungary only until the asylum procedure is launched, rest themselves, take advantage of the benefits of international treaties, and take the first opportunity to continue their journey to Western Europe. But we must not doubt that if there is no effective solution to the management of the refugee flood, soon our country will become a destination country, which means that refugees will remain permanently in the territory of Hungary. Europe is planning to tighten up. The Germans and the Austrians are expected to introduce restrictions, which means that we should be afraid that we will have to support tens of thousands of immigrants who live because of the deportation. If we do not have strict laws in time, we will not be able to protect Hungary from the immigrants of living here. Hungary can turn into a refugee camp, we cannot allow that. At present, it is necessary for the Hungarian public to act in a uniform and clear manner on this issue, and therefore the Fidesz-KDNP faction association initiated a national consultation. The aim of the consultation is to give the government a clear mandate to act effectively against living immigrants and to enforce our decisions in Brussels. Last year, the number of unemployed people has fallen significantly, but Hungary is not able to support a large number of living immigrants. This would be an economically unsolvable task for the country, and it is not possible to maintain such refugee camps. The government continues to insist that the Hungarian people must decide on all important issues, including on the refugee issue, since our daily lives are influenced by living immigrants. Our electors have entrusted us to represent their interests, to lead the country. On this basis, it is our sworn duty to bear in mind the interests of the Hungarian people, and we must take responsibility in front of them, while also fulfilling the legal and Christian moral obligations of our country. The debate is therefore not about the political persecuted, but also about living immigrants in the EU. However, Hungary does not have time to wait for the EU to tighten up legislation on living immigration, so as a first step, the government has adopted the Fidesz-KDNP faction initiative and is launching a national consultation on living immigration. The preparations for this have already begun. Dear Parliament, By the beginning of 2015, Hungary's southern, Hungarian-Serbian border section became the most vulnerable part of the Schengen area. As a result of Hungary's membership of the EU and Schengen, Hungary must guarantee not only its own security but also the security of other Member States in the Schengen area. According to statistical data, illegal migration has been increasing steadily since 2012. In 2013, the increase was 130 per cent compared to the previous year's figures. In 2014, the police captured nearly 45,000 people during an illegal border crossing or attempted to do so. This number grows every day. I must state that the police are performing their task effectively, and I would like to thank the police staff for their high level of responsibility. The enormous number of captures also indicates that the problem is not the capture of people affected by illegal migration, but the abuse of existing rights by a large number of migrants. The Geneva Convention provides that asylum seekers may remain in the territory of that country at least until a decision is taken on whether or not to grant protection to that person. However, in order to enable the application to be examined individually and in substance, applicants must be admitted to the territory of the country on the basis of European Union and international law and therefore illegally arriving asylum seekers cannot currently be reversed at the border. Dear Parliament, Why is the flood of refugees coming? The drastic increase in the number of asylum seekers is due to several factors. The flow of economic refugees in Kosovo and further deterioration of the security situation in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan can be mentioned in the first place. An increase in the number of economic migrants who are on the road due to difficulties in living, taking advantage of the asylum institution, is outstanding. There is also significant secondary migration from transit countries, such as Greece. Hungary is geographically located at the intersection of the two main Balkan migration routes to Europe. Non-European migrants typically arrive illegally in our country via Turkey, Greece, Macedonia and Serbia or via the Turkey-Bulgaria-Serbia route. Citizens of the countries of the Western Balkans, which also emit major economic migrants in the EU, are also typically arriving across the Serbian-Hungarian border. The number of illegal border crossings and their experiments is the highest. A significant proportion, more than 96 percent of the illegal migrants captured, immediately apply for asylum. In terms of the nationality composition of asylum seekers, based on data from 2014, 50 percent of applicants, more than 21 thousand in Kosovo, 20 percent, and more than 8700 in Afghan. Of these three categories of citizenship, 87 percent of all applicants are accounted for. The proportion of applicants in Kosovo continued to increase in 2014. While their proportion in the first months of the year did not reach 6 per cent of all applicants, the number and percentage of applications submitted by the end of the year exceeded 50 per cent. [[11.20]] To date, the number of asylum seekers in 2015 is 26,746, of which 22,618 are living immigrants in Kosovo. These foreigners left Kosovo only for economic reasons and left their country, many specifically for the purpose of using Hungarian or EU asylum. There have also been a significant number of applicants from the Palestinian territories and Somalia, Iraq, Nigeria and Pakistan. With regard to the reception of asylum seekers in the EU, Hungary has caught up in the ranks of Member States that registered most asylum seekers compared to the number of inhabitants, ahead of large host states such as Germany and France. In 2014, Hungary registered the second most applications for international protection compared to the number of inhabitants. Hungary is currently a transit country for illegal migration within the EU. To them, the possibility of submitting an asylum application simply means that it will help them avoid returning the readmission agreement at the border immediately. Despite a significant number of applications, 40-50 percent of asylum seekers who are not limited in their freedom of movement leave our country almost immediately after arriving in Hungary. Another 30-40 percent leave within 3-10 days to an unknown location. They will not wait for the results of the asylum procedure. The asylum authority found that 360 of the 18 900 applicants were refugees or beneficiaries of international protection in 2013 and 503 of the 42 777 applicants in 2014. We can't keep asylum seekers in custody for the duration of the procedure. The current legislation allows asylum detention only as a last resort. Since the persons concerned cannot be restricted in their freedom of movement, as I have said, they are excluded from the procedure and are going to an unknown place. Alternatives to asylum detention have been introduced, such as the appointment of compulsory residence or the institution of asylum bail. Experience has shown that they do not constitute a sufficient deterrent. Our country is in a situation where, although economic asylum seekers arrive at its borders in bulk, we do not have the means to prevent their movement within the EU except by ordering detention. The European Union applies double standards to Hungary. On the one hand, it is in the Union's interest that illegal migrants do not engulf Europe and, on the other hand, that they also pursue infringement proceedings against our country because asylum detention is not only a last resort. It does this despite the fact that in 2014 the proportion of asylum seekers was barely more than 10 percent of the total number of asylum seekers, a total of 4829 persons. We are all interested in the European Union recognising the threat of economic migration and taking strict action in the field of immigration policy, because current EU legislation is weak and encourages abuse. In order to change this, Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior of Hungary, has made several proposals for tightening up the meetings of the Council on Home Affairs of the European Union. In addition, the Minister discussed yesterday with the Serbian Minister of Interior in Belgrade. Following the hearing, the Parties signed the Inter-Market Agreement on the return of Kosovo persons via Serbia on land. The Convention represents a significant step forward for Hungary in addressing the problems caused by the wave of living immigration. The signing of the agreement will remove any obstacles to the return of illegal border crossings which have been detained in Hungary more effectively and at a lower cost than has been the case so far. The Serbian party has contributed to the return of Kosovo's citizens on land, to the Kosovo administrative line by bus. The Convention enters into force today, and transfers can start after 20 days. It calls for a tightening of the fact that there is a procedural period in the current legislative environment where the rejected asylum seeker is no longer subject to the asylum procedure and therefore his asylum detention cannot be ordered or maintained but cannot be subject to a return procedure. This will allow you to move freely in the Schengen area. Dear Parliament, As early as 2013, exceptional measures were introduced to address the increasing migratory pressure. Since the capacity increase in existing reception facilities proved to be insufficient, we have opened a new reception centre in Vámosszabadi. A temporary reception centre was set up in Nagyfa and from 1 July 2013 we established asylum-guarded reception centres in Debrecen, Békéscsaba and Nyírbátor to carry out asylum detention. In order to ensure the placement of more and more asylum seekers from August of last year, it is appropriate to open up a new host institution as soon as possible. The Government has decided to start the operation of a temporary host institution capable of receiving 300 people from 15 October 2014 to this end, while at the same time imposing transfers to ensure the resources necessary for the additional tasks of asylum. In order to speed up the asylum procedure, the Government decided to strengthen the immigration and citizenship office by 60 persons. The premises of the asylum-guarded reception centre operated by the Immigration and Nationality Office are currently operating at 90% utilisation. The cost of applicants, refugees and other beneficiaries of international protection increased by more than an increase in the number of people in host institutions While we spent 1.1 billion forints in 2012, this amount was HUF 1 billion 880 million, or 71,3% more in 2013. In 2014, these costs exceeded HUF 2.6 billion. In the last year, this meant HUF 4642 per person per day. The illegal border crossings only reported an additional expenditure of HUF 120 million to the police in January 2015. It is important to point out that some of the people who committed the illegal border crossing, who have come from crisis centres such as Syria, Afghanistan or Somalia, indeed, have international protection. But speaking of Syria, if the fight against the Islamic State is effective, the present terrorists will be refugees. This is worth considering, fellow Members. The government will, inter alia, use EU funds to ensure that those who need protection are identified as soon as possible by the asylum authority, assessing their application in a rapid and effective procedure, and providing them with the necessary protection. In the future, we want to strengthen our efforts to combat illegal migration and prevent misuse of asylum procedures. To this end, the Ministry of Interior sent a letter to the European Commission's Commissioner for Migration and Home Affairs and to Member States' representatives. In the letter, we called for practical cooperation and suggested addressing the root causes of migration and asylum processes in the issuing and origin countries. In addition to national efforts, operational and strategic cooperation between the Hungarian, German, Austrian and Serbian border authorities is ongoing. In the framework of this, on 6 February 2015 we asked the Director of the Frontex Agency to launch the joint operation planned for the Hungarian-Serbian border, which would ensure a serious presence of Member States at the Hungarian-Serbian border. We continue to encourage cooperation with other Western Balkan countries, in particular Kosovo, in order to combat illegal migration beyond the borders of the Union. Dear Parliament, Hungary should not be able to bear any more of the burden of living immigrants. We need to create new rules that tighten up both the procedure and shorten the procedure in order to effectively close cases. If Hungary can take a strong stand against the mass emergence of living immigrants, it will also become clear in the Balkans that it is illegal to come to Hungary. Hungary does not need immigrants for a living, Hungary cannot become the destination country for living immigrants, Hungary needs a national agreement on this issue. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the Government's efforts, the enforcement of Hungarian interests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-20-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a false announcement regarding the presentation of the debate. Mr Tibor Navracsics, Member of the European Commission, spoke in the debate today - that is what has been said. I would like to inform you that this will take place in the political debate on Thursday. I ask for your understanding and then for the record accordingly. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. The Fidesz Group indicated that the group's position was presented by two speakers within a total of 15 minutes. On that basis, I give the floor first to Congressman Lajos Kósa. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.30]]
u2015-02-20-75	Mr. President. Dear House, Today's debate, the mass emergence of livelihood refugees in Hungary, will be one of the most important social policy problems in the coming years, which will also be at the heart of our debates on the European Union. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It is simply because those who have been to European countries can see that they are clearer than ever, but everyone of the professionals describes that no EU Member State is capable of presenting a successful integration model, no matter what the immigration policy and asylum policies of the various European Member States have been. In English: they sit on top of such a set of problems without being able to set an example that there was a successful integration problem in any Member State, from Sweden to Spain, even though there were very different experiments, very different procedures, very different social receptions, attitudes, and experimented with very different money support in the European Community, and even though it was one of the most liberal countries where they showed the greatest tolerance, most money was spent on this, Sweden, sometimes refugees and their descendants burn down the streets and districts of the Swedish capital because of obvious integration failure, as we have seen in Paris or across the European Union, where it seems that this problem is unresolved. Hungary looked at this situation as a member of the European Union for a long time, but we were not involved, because until 2012, the number of refugees arriving in Hungary was negligible, there was a special Hungarian procedure, which was also sufficiently dissuasive to allow large numbers of refugees to arrive through Hungary to the European Union. The detention of aliens as a procedure meant that everyone who illegally crosses the Hungarian border will be detained by the Hungarian authority until the proceedings relating to it are completed. And this procedure, this system held the number of people illegally entering Hungary among the 2000-2500 people each year. The European Union objected to this, Hungary had to abolish the detention facility in the first third of 2012 and from then on the refugee flow is growing to an amazing extent. You know the numbers, but it is worth recalling: in 2012, there were 2,500 refugees in Hungary who requested asylum through illegal border crossings, in 2013 18 thousand, in 2014 more than 42 thousand, and today until 20 February, the first two months of the year, more than 26 thousand! Moreover, it is clear that the request of these people is not justified in the vast majority and cannot be granted refugee status. For example, because until 20 February, more than 26,000 asylum seekers from 22,000 Albania come to whom it cannot be given, because Albania is a safe third country. There is no EU country that gives them refugee status! It is also clear that this problem is on us. EU rules are that where the illegal border crossinger first applied for asylum, the procedure must be conducted there, even if he has left here in the meantime. Therefore, we are potentially facing today the fact that there are roughly over 100,000 people who will sooner or later be sent back to Hungary from European Union countries, even because, by the way, they or the vast majority of them have no legal possibility to conduct asylum procedures in any European country, because they have entered the country, Hungary, they have taken data, fingerprints from them, and this has been registered in the European register. Wherever they are subject to official procedures in any country of the European Union, the task is to send them back to Hungary to conduct the procedure here. So this 100,000 people are already potentially burdened with us. Even if they are not here now, because we know - and this is also very important - that these people are not in good faith, because they also need to know, because they are very prepared, because this year's illegal border crossings show that they have been prepared by specialised lawyers and smugglers, so they also need to know that if they are registered in Hungary, even though the Hungarian authorities say that we have no way of taking them into foreign police custody, and that asylum detention affects their very limited circle, but they are not entitled to travel to another EU country. So when they get out of here, they immediately show their bad faith. I note that, of course, the Hungarian authorities tell everyone - spending quite a lot of money on interpreters - that because they have applied for refugee status in Hungary, they must stay in Hungary. It's mandatory to tell you that, by the way. So they know exactly, because if even the smuggler didn't tell them, the Hungarian authority will tell everyone that he must stay in Hungary, he is not entitled to travel to another European country. Compared to this, half of them go away in one day, and about 20-30 percent of the rest of them go away in a few days. So, in fact, their fraction remains in Hungary for the time being. When they leave Hungary, they become evil-eyed, whether or not they were otherwise entitled to refugee status or not. And they're gonna send them back. It's not optional, it's mandatory to send them back. The German authorities or the French, whoever I say, they wouldn't be able to carry out the procedure even if they wanted to, because it would become illegal. It is not possible to fail to see the extremely close connection with a few months slipping away that if refugees arriving in our country are faced with the immediate detention of aliens by the end of the procedure, or if they are taken into asylum detention in bulk, this number will decrease dramatically every time this threat has been made and always increased jumping when it is over. And today we are saying that Hungary is the second transit country in Europe after Italians in terms of the number of refugees. And the numbers are amazing. If someone says that it is not necessary to deal with it, or that it is dealing with this matter, I do not know what extreme political trends are typical of, it puts its head in the sand, it is seriously wrong; it does not resolve itself, it can be seen on the numbers. Not to mention that it is our duty to deal with this, until we create a situation where we have done everything we can to ensure that we have our number one task, the security of the Hungarian people. Moreover, this does not cost the Hungarian State little. Consider that the cost to a refugee is HUF 4600 a day. Let's figure out how much money this is. How happy we would be if we could give this to others in other proceedings. And that's why we think that if we don't deal with this right now, we might be able to get the ghost out of the bottle without having a chance to deal with it in a normal way. Many suggest that these people should be helped. But how can you help those who leave immediately? Those who are not in good faith with the Hungarian authorities, because knowing that they are breaking the rules, will leave immediately? How can you help them when we know that the vast majority of them come from countries that are not eligible for refugee status? Then what's the way to help? Hungary cannot bear the fate of even all the unfortunate people in Europe, it is quite clear, even if they come from a region not far from us. [[11.40]] Not to mention that we can see that the Union can't cope with this either. Why, how can we expect Hungary to deal with this problem alone? Therefore, in the context of this debate, as well as in the context of the national consultation, we must also take the initiative to change the European Union's current policy, because this creates impossible situations, and this is also a problem of humanity. Make your way to Lampedusa Island. Go to the European cities where the completely unsuccessful integration programme created unmanageable situations! And now we know, of course, that the one who had a little foresight could have known - that what had developed in France, the Netherlands, other countries should not have been treated now; it should have been in 1990, when this whole problem had not gone so far. The situation in Hungary also needs to be dealt with now, because in 2020 it will be too late if we do nothing; this is what the numbers show. I would therefore like to ask honourable Members to help us find a common solution, which is an essential task for Hungary. People should be asked, a common position should be established, a national position should be taken and the European Union should be represented in the various fora. And what technique can be used to imagine this, how do we imagine the national consultation, I would like you to listen to my fellow leader, Antal Rogán. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Calling in on the opposition side: Whoo!]]
u2015-02-20-76	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Antal Rogán, another lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-77	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lajos Kósa, as Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee, I believe that he has made clear the situation that has arisen in Hungary and the reasons for this, as well. What is the main reason for this is that, at the end of 2012, at the pressure of the European Union, we had to change the proper Hungarian practice that kept illegal immigrants from Hungary and did not make Hungary the target of living immigration. We had to change this at the pressure of the European Union, and it is obvious that if we go back to the rules before 2012, what we want, we will face the European Union's repeated procedure and infringement procedure. [[Erzsébet Schmuck will be replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] Hungary is aware of this, but we think that we do not have time to wait for the European Union to transform the Community's legislation on this issue at the cost of long-term debates, since Brussels is obviously still pro-immigration today; a good part of the Member States of the European Union are not, but Brussels is. As long as this situation changes, Hungary would be in an impossible situation, so we need a national solution. The national solution is that if we go back to the rules before 2012, i.e. illegal immigrants arriving in Hungary will be detained, controlled, while they are in Hungary, and expelled from Hungary as soon as possible by the shortest possible procedure, we think that Hungary will not be the target of living immigration, and that we will also fulfil our common European tasks as Schengen countries, as a country for the protection of the Schengen border. As this threatens the European Union's infringement procedure, we believe that this requires the mandate of Parliament, the broadest possible mandate, and the support of the Hungarian electorate, as appropriate. That is why we thought that the government should ask the Hungarian families about these three issues as soon as possible in the form of national consultations, because we need to know whether people are in favour of the government taking drastic, restrictive measures, despite the fact that this is likely to threaten the European Union with infringement proceedings. What I would like to make clear to everyone here is that we had this practice before 2012, it was a successful practice, it kept immigrants away from Hungary, and it did not cost the country much money. So every scare from the left can be heard again - on the basis of the 23 million Romanian samples - that it costs a hundred billion, I think, because the result would be precisely that it would keep those who come to Hungary today by tens of thousands, trying to get out of here and risk being deported here. Which is why if we don't do anything, it's gonna cost us a lot of money. If we change, then I think we don't have to spend money on this, but we can prevent immigrants from coming here. Therefore, I believe that today's debate is also an important objective for all groups here to make clear whether they support or oppose living immigration, and also to make it clear whether they support the government's stepping up measures and re-introduce the practice of nerve custody against illegal immigrants. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-78	Thank you very much. Now it's time for Congressman Tamás Harangozó, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The MSZP is ready to discuss all reasonable professional proposals for the management of the refugee wave, which strengthens the safety of Hungarian people and treats asylum seekers as people, i.e. humane and fair treatment. If it is really necessary to amend the relevant laws, the MSZP will be a constructive partner, but we will take the most decisive action against it if it is to use the wave of refugees that we have just experienced to incite the hysteria of Fidesz, to incite xenophobia, which is exactly what we are witnessing. What Fidesz is performing is the darkest, meanest political propaganda: unscrupulous manipulation, in which real data is laundered with half-truths of common belief and obviously gross lies. Perhaps everyone remembers well that on January 7th, the world was shocked by the news of the massacre of Charlie Hebdo's editors. It was this terrible assassination in which Viktor Orbán saw a new political opportunity: while Europe's leaders stood up spectacularly for the values of freedom, democracy and solidarity, until Viktor Orbán announced the fight against so-called livelihood immigration, he wants to use political capital to strengthen people's most intuitive fears. All this is said by the Prime Minister of a country whose government left nearly half a million people for living. The fact that the number of people seeking asylum at the borders of our country has indeed increased dramatically in recent months has just come to the launch of this vile campaign of propaganda. The purpose of Fidesz is to create a new image of the enemy, to create suspicion and fear in people's hearts once again. This is the new enemy, the army of economic refugees invading Hungary as locusts, according to Fidesz. From this enormous threat to our Hungarian life form, only Viktor Orbán and his leading team can protect the nation, and they will not stand by. There will be everything that is essential for a successful fight for freedom: strict laws that thinn out their mates, the taking over of the most progressive institutions of Asian dictatorships, and a constant confrontation with the European Union and our Western allies, who dares to criticize, are obviously pro-immigration traitors, and thus the desire to dissolve the Hungarians in foreign cultures. It is horrifying that the idea of this despicable communication campaign came out of the head of the Fidesz communications team in the wake of the attacks in Paris. Supposedly, they were the ones who believed in immigration and the fight against foreign cultures to find the miracle drug by which Viktor Orbán could once again pose as a powerful, warrior leader to the Hungarian people. It is time for us to look clearly at the facts against false propaganda and expose the lies. In fact, the number of refugees has increased dramatically over the last two years. It is a fact that only a small proportion of applicants will eventually receive refugee status. It is also a fact that a significant proportion of asylum seekers disappear from the authorities before the procedure is completed. It is a fact that this is an existing problem and it is essential to review the course of asylum procedures and the organisations involved. Yes, the issue of burden sharing between the Member States of the European Union must indeed be reconsidered, but it is also a false manipulation to confuse the issue of refugees with economic immigration. In Hungary, three quarters of the 140 thousand immigrants, representing less than two percent of the population, came from a European Union country, with a vast majority of Hungarian origins. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: It hurts you!]] It is particularly misleading to make thousands of asylum seekers at our borders look like they want to emigrate and settle in Hungary. On the other hand, it is a fact that asylum seekers and recognised refugees move on from Hungary as they can. We can agree with the Prime Minister that these issues need to be discussed more openly, honestly and with complete honesty. So let's do this. The bombings in Paris and previously in London and Madrid were clearly designed to create tensions between the majority of society and the Muslim minority; they wanted to eliminate a European political culture based on tolerance and inclusion. So the aim of the assassinations was to say from the mouths of European politicians sentences that visualize the struggle of cultures, that economic immigration only brings trouble and danger to the people of Europe. [[11.50]] The breeding ground for terrorism is that people living in different cultures feel threatened. And this threat is made intimidatingly believable and perseverable by the expression of such a leading politician. It's a shame that the Prime Minister of our country is playing the music of terrorists. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: What did he say?]] It is particularly painful that Viktor Orbán's manifestation took place on the very day when more than one million people, regardless of their origin, colour and religion, believed in the values of freedom and democracy in Paris, honoring the victims of the terrorist attack. As for the situation in Hungary, Viktor Orbán can be calm. As long as he is the Prime Minister, Hungary will certainly not become the target country for immigrants. The country that is breaking down from the centre of Europe, which is increasingly quoting the relations of Central Asia dictatorships, which Viktor Orbán makes our country, will certainly not be the target of immigrants. A person who leaves his home to work in the European Union has no intention of coming to Hungary. The conditions of income and livelihood in Hungary are now inadequate to keep Hungarian people born here, who grow up here, who love their country, at home. The real national fate issue today is not immigration, but that hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians do not imagine their future in Hungary. Of course, even the most manipulative propaganda is partly based on real foundations. The pro-government politicians want to make the threat of mass immigration believable by using asylum statistics. Under international law, refugees are entitled to protection. These international law rules also define exactly who is entitled to this protection. The country from which asylum is sought shall examine whether the applicant is entitled to protection. On the basis of these rules, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots who fled to the West after the revolution in 56 were granted asylum. We must also deal with asylum in this spirit. It is the responsibility of the government at all times to stop those who attempt to enter the territory of Hungary illegally and to examine whether or not the arrivals are entitled to protection of refugees. If the application for asylum is manifestly unfounded, the procedure must be concluded quickly. If a request is rejected, it is also the responsibility of the government to deport illegal border crossings. The legal conditions are still in place today, no matter what you say here today, Lajos Kósa or Antal Rogán. According to the current law, 30 days are available to reject manifestly unfounded requests and during that time applicants cannot leave the designated reception centre. In accordance with the rules in force, asylum seekers may also be detained if the procedure is obstructed or there is a reason to fear absconding. Nevertheless, Fidesz claims that the provision of people who are obviously not entitled to refugee status will destroy the Hungarian budget. Meanwhile, the police are taking illegal border crossings off trains in spectacular actions. The leader of the ruling party also held a press conference at the Eastern Railway Station, instead of asking the government to answer the following questions here at the Parliament. Why do the procedures take months? Why are you unable to assess manifestly unfounded applications in the 30-day preliminary examination procedure? How can most applicants disappear during the procedure when they could not leave the reception centre without authorisation? Why can't they catch illegal border crossings at the border? How do they get across the border by mass so that they can end up in the Eastern Railway Station or even in Győr? The answer is obvious. The government can't handle the refugee wave. Or maybe he doesn't want to. In the absence of real immigrants, it is only by pointing out refugees who are trying to cross our country that the right to fight freedom against people with foreign cultures can be believed. This is why the government has started a so-called national consultation rather than providing meaningful solutions to the refugee issue. It is the responsibility of the government at all times to enable the organs to receive the refugee wave. A decision should be made as soon as possible in cases where there are clearly no conditions for asylum. But not only speed, but also the enforcement of the requirements of a fair trial is a fundamental requirement. Automatically, no one can be reversed without a substantive assessment of the application and thus subjected to persecution, or worse, death threats. At least during the preliminary examination procedure, it shall be ensured that the applicant does not leave and is at the disposal of the authorities. At the same time, those fleeing poverty, war, or persecution cannot be treated as criminals and held in prison conditions. Fidesz's idea of automatic, mass detention of asylum seekers is not only inhuman but also extremely expensive and useless, and even undermines the safety of Hungarians in the long term. It is precisely clear what a burden it is for taxpayers to be detained between prison conditions. About 18,000 people are being held in Hungarian prisons, which requires a huge network of institutions, public funds exceeding HUF 50 billion per year, and then 9 000 staff. Compared with these figures, the number of the Immigration Offices carrying out asylum procedures is 1150 and their budget is HUF 9 billion. In other words, the government is currently translating a fraction of the funds allocated to the execution of sentences into asylum. With this in mind, I ask: where would the 100-150,000 asylum seekers arriving this year be shut down, according to their estimates, when the saturation of the Bv institutions is still above 140 percent? Tell me, where will the new camps for the detention of asylum seekers be? Who will look after the prisoners, or how will they ensure the conditions of detention? You are playing with fire, because it can have disastrous consequences if asylum seekers are put in terrible conditions, while not being able to provide for them properly. I ask my fellow Members: which of you would welcome such a potential time bomb in your own constituency? Which of you would look into the eyes of the inhabitants of the city in which you wish to set up such a refugee camp or prison? Wouldn't it be in everyone's best interest to devote money and energy to speeding up asylum procedures and a fair settlement of asylum seekers? Because all of this is a serious government effort and obviously a lot of money. However, guaranteeing the safety of Hungarian people and enforcing the most basic humane aspects is not a question of money. For example, the hundreds of millions planned for the national consultation could be used for this purpose, but there would also be plenty of money spent on bank purchases. It is a very painful and least Christian attitude that people who come from foreign cultures are not adequately empathetic. Unfortunately, however, they are trying to look at the issue from the point of view of Hungarians across borders. Because there are many of them now who do not have Hungarian citizenship. This is particularly true in the case of Ukraine with a serious war conflict. However, we can agree with the lead speaker of Fidesz that the policy pursued by the European Union can indeed be held responsible for the growing situation. Not because Fidesz doesn't allow asylum seekers to be treated like criminals. The wave of refugees that the Hungarian authorities are facing today is not, to a small extent, the result of a failed European foreign and security policy. The majority of asylum seekers arriving in our country are from Kosovo. According to reports, Kosovo's development is made impossible by organised crime and widespread corruption in addition to the enormous unemployment. These are familiar problems, aren't they, fellow Members? After several years of international administration, this is a major failure in a country where the currency used is the euro, guaranteed by NATO, and the European Union babysits its judicial system. Similarly, it is disappointing to look at the African North African region, which creates difficult migration pressures for the countries of South Europe. In the long term, therefore, there is only a chance of reducing migratory pressures if countries in the wider EU environment are able to provide their own citizens with security and livelihoods. However, the European Union must also do so. It must help to catch up and actively engage in crisis zones. If Viktor Orbán really wants to do something for the security of the Hungarian people, then he should fight at the meetings of the European Council. Dear Parliament, Instead of a solution to the national consultation, the government seems to want to use the situation for political gain, more hundreds of millions of scheming, or even updating the Cubatov list. We ask the Parliament to be worthy of the mandate of the electorate, and instead of political hystericalism, to give the floor only to the negotiation of real solutions and decisions. Thank you so much for listening. [[12.00]]
u2015-02-20-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for Congressman Mátyás Firtl, lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-81	Mr President, Dear House, Following my fellow Member, who is also my vice-president on the Defence and Police Committee, where we have already discussed these issues, it is difficult to reveal so that one does not refuse that his entire speech was an anti- Viktor Orbán hysterical act. He's talking about hystericalisation. [[Cries from the benches of the governing parties: That's right! Applause.]] when he did so today in his speech before the agenda, where he quoted the Bishop of Vác. In my speech today, so that he does not accidentally quote me, I quote Pope John Paul. In 2001 on the occasion of World Day for Travelers and Refugees II. In his message, Pope John Paul emphasized that the universality of the common good embraces the entire family of peoples, surpassing selfish national interests. In this context, we must also look at the right to migration, the church recognises the right for all people to leave its own country and to go to another country where it finds better living conditions. Maybe they're saying it's appropriate. But then there's a sequel to it when I'm a second. John Paul says that, however, states have the right to regulate the extent of migration in order to protect their own borders. So that's how II ends. Pope John Paul, and here we are, my dear fellow Member Bellozó, that our own borders must be protected on the particular Serbian border section for which we are now responsible. I would emphasise twice that states have the right to regulate the extent of migration. I am starting from the numbers that have been mentioned several times and will be spoken more often, which, however we consider it, are, my fellow Members, facts. In fact, 2150 people were only in 2012. The fact is, in 13 there are 18 900 of them. The fact is that in 2014 there are 42 700 people, and the fact is that there are more than 26,000 people, and even we are approaching the 30,000 number at the moment, in 2015. These figures, honourable Members, speak for themselves. They quote that we have to deal with this issue, because otherwise, if we don't deal with it, we can go in the direction in which we have just heard that Fidesz causes hysteria. It does not create hysteria, ladies and gentlemen, but it highlights exactly what is at the moment on the southern borders of the country. Dear House, The free movement of persons is a fundamental right guaranteed by the Treaties to the citizens of the European Union through an action on freedom, security and justice. The abolition of internal borders requires enhanced control of the EU's external borders and regulation of the entry and residence of nationals of non-EU countries into the EU, one of which is the common asylum and immigration policy. The principle of free movement of persons was implemented by signing the 1985 Schengen Convention and the subsequent 1990 Schengen Treaty, with which the process of lifting border controls between participating countries began, as part of the EU's legal framework, Schengen cooperation has been gradually extended, so it now includes most EU Member States and some non-Member States. The Geneva Convention remains the basis for determining refugee status with a number of EU directives, despite the fact that the Convention is already quite obsolete and thus does not address a range of issues such as the situation of refugees within the country and in the environment, or people who are forced to leave their homes for socio-economic reasons or because of poverty, because these problems are largely the result of global neoliberal economic policy. The result is that people are forced to leave their countries, to flee for a better living. The Dublin procedure is set out in the Annex to Decision No 604/2013 of 20 June 2013 laying down the conditions and procedures for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or stateless person. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). Information notice according to Article 4 of the regulation: if you apply for recognition in Hungary, it does not necessarily mean that the asylum procedure will be conducted in Hungary. On the basis of the Dublin Regulations, if certain legal preconditions exist, another State, all the Member States of the European Union, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, which is party to the regulations, may be responsible for examining the application for asylum. Ladies and gentlemen, Until 1998, Hungary set a geographical limit for the Geneva Convention, which meant that the national authorities were only responsible for European refugees when deciding who should be granted refugee status in Hungary. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees was responsible for non-European refugees. Shortly after the geographical restriction was abolished, the Immigration and Nationality Office was established in 2000 subject to the Ministry of Interior. The HÁH decides on asylum applications in Hungary, but they also decide who is being held and who is not. They may later refer the decision taken by the HAC to the courts. Refugees who receive a negative response have only eight days. Allow us to thank the staff of the HAC here for the superhuman work they have to do in dealing with such a huge case. Many refugee camps or guarded centers in Hungary during socialism were barracks of the Soviet army or workers' hostels. The refugee flood started in the 1990s, my fellow Members, they fled from the Balkan war to Hungary only then, and Hungary managed the refugee flood of the Balkan war. And he treated her with honor! He treated him with honor because the people who left their country were fleeing war. Some of them are either established or returned to one of the countries, Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia. For many refugees, as has already been said, indeed, Hungary is a transit country, they do not want to remain refugees in Hungary, they want to go further west after their families and try to reach an integration agreement to stay there. But it is not so simple, because this is exactly what the European Union is struggling with, how it will solve this integration treaty, how it can change it, because it will eventually cause a great deal of trouble in the European Union. Hungary joined the EU in 2004, which is when it adapted its legislation to the EU asylum legislation. Harmonisation with EU rules has been going on ever since. Hungary has developed its first migration policy by 2013, which, through a major step in the Dublin Regulation, was able to integrate it into its legislation as a member of the Schengen area. The nature of the transit country remains unchanged, as the UN High Commissioner says that it remains unchanged. This huge increase in numbers, which has been mentioned by several people before, is indeed an indication of the nature of transit, but if we are holding a debate day, it is good that the public, the television viewers, are really aware that refugees from this country will leave the country as a transit country, but - as has already been said - once they do not get the status there, they will be returned to Hungary as well. This is also where they continue to become a problem in Hungary, and Hungary must continue to carry out the procedure during which removal can take place after a long period of time. I would like to point out that at present, as has already been said, the Kosovo people are aware that if they receive a certificate, they will leave this country as quickly as possible and they will be able to move freely in the territory of the Union until they are actually placed under a formal procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Zoltán Nógrádi, mayor of Mórahalom, who we worked with for eight years in the European Commission of the Hungarian Parliament, that Europe is too easy to deal with the issue of refugees legally, because it goes against the law of crossing the green border by applying for political refugee status. By relaxing the regulation, Europe will unleash on itself a migratory pressure that Hungary is suffering in the first place and needs to be dealt with here. [[12.10]] We consider this to be a temporary situation, we do not want to settle for this in the long term, and we are also launching a tightening of immigration on debate day, because we believe that it is absolutely necessary to tighten up this softened system. The mayor of Asotthalom and Morahalom would have much more to say about this in detail, but if I add, I myself, who live on the western border, see what happens on the Railjet when they are delivered from the train in Győr, but I also see when these migrants are shipped to Sopron. As I have already said, they are being deported from Austria and Germany, and we do not want them to be stranded here, so we need to make a law in Hungary so that we can expel them from Hungary as soon as possible, because we do not want Hungary to become a refugee camp. Nor can it be ignored that this high level of migration also carries security policy issues - not all of which, through mass appearance, go to the police and the Immigration Office, and may even facilitate the creation of different terrorist cells - not to mention health issues, where the mayor of Morahalom could also be quoted: everyone who works in waste management regularly receives vaccinations, receives weekly medical examinations and collects in sterile protective clothing several containers of waste per week with an extremely high public health risk. Every day, they collect several kilometers of discarded clothing, as refugees take off their soaked, worn-out coats, sweaters, and household items, which must be collected immediately, so as not to be taken by a local resident, because they do not know what kind of disease they may carry. This is just an example of what happens around Asotthalom and Morahalom. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary stabilises its financial and economic situation, thus creating as many jobs as possible for the Hungarian people. We need to defend this result and we cannot allow ourselves - as we have already been told - to spend, say, 1.1 billion in 2012, 1.8 billion in 2013 and 2.6 billion forints in 2014 on the costs of increased migration, since Hungary has to provide their daily care, medical, health and social care, but also their pocket money, for example, until the final reversal of the situation, until the decisions are completed. It's all with our taxpayers' money on it. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, We're solidarity, we're humane, but there's a line this country can handle, some we can't. In Western Europe, too, it has been shown that not only economic, terrorist or security policy but also cultural issues have emerged. We have a duty to prevent that. Let's try to determine what we can as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to immigration, the tightening of domestic legislation is now also on the agenda through the debate day. On behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I can say that we are in favour of stricter regulation. States have the right to regulate the extent of migration, to defend their own borders. In the short time remaining - because my fellow Member Harangozó mentioned 1956 - the fact that in 1956, my honourable fellow Member, they fled from the communist-socialist regime at that time, because it was a war situation, and because of the war situation, the countries really accepted it. But I would like to tell you, because I lived by the fact that there were still quotas on how many refugees are accepted by which country and not everyone is accepted by the different countries. Whoever was above the quota could have gone to Australia, America or Argentina. So you weren't supposed to just come here, and we're gonna take care of everyone here and take everyone in. But while I'm here, one more thought because I mentioned the war situation. When we establish this law, we must not forget to take into account the fact that there is a war situation in Ukraine at the moment. Many Hungarian countrymen fleeing from war have to come up with a solution so that we can give them the opportunity not to be subject to their immigration restrictions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]]
u2015-02-20-82	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpat, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-83	Mr President, Dear House, As a first word, I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that finally, although with a two-year phase delay, we can talk about this very important issue on the one hand, and on the other hand we can witness an exceptional debate where Fidesz-KDNP is represented in a number worthy of debate. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I claim that this should always be the case, and I very much hope that, following a constructive, consistent discussion process, it will continue to be the case in the future; even if the whispering agrees, even if it does not. I must note, however, that I find it outrageous that MEP Krisztina Morvai, who is in our midst, cannot comment on this debate, saying that it is supposedly not an EU agenda. But the question arises: what is EU bound if the refugee issue is not if the issue of economic immigration is not? We must also take into account the fact that Hungary is fighting on several fronts at once on this issue, but the Hungarian Parliament is also dependent on all the experiences that can bring this issue forward, so I find it very unfortunate that this debate is taking place with such restrictions. Not to mention that László Toroczkai, mayor of Asotthalom, can't even enter the building, so the frame of the discourse is very truncated. But we also need to see that we have moved forward from where we were in 2012, 2013 or 2014, for example when I pointed the question to Mr Kontra, State Secretary, if I remember correctly, in the form of an interpellation as to what he thinks about the behaviour of the residents of the Debrecen refugee camp or the Balassagyarmatians. By the way, Lénárd Dobrocsi, a municipal representative of Balassagyarmat, who had to conduct a self-informed campaign on this matter, to create a website, is also here, and we are also building on his experience, as we need to talk about first-hand experiences. At that time, Mr Secretary of State gave a very professional answer - and I commend him for that - with facts, figures, but also expressed his conviction that crime statistics in the areas concerned did not deteriorate, and then added two sentences later that if these individuals or elements did commit crime, the police would act with sufficient effectiveness. So there was an interesting thought process, but they ignored the problem. We are here now, and we can finally say that it is already on the subject of speech, which, by the way, should have been the subject of a very serious debate here in this House for years. And I am quite amazed at the critical thoughts of the MSZP, the MSZP's thoughts, which, with the demise of the border guard, has made an amazing contribution to the present catastrophic situation and has allowed me to unfold a situation that has resulted in literally hundreds of thousands of refugees today, so they are in real need, who I believe should be helped. So those who flee from political persecution - 8-16 percent of the experts put it in relation to all the arrivals - really deserve help, only that they are washed together with the Hungarians in Transcarpathia or our Hungarian brothers in the torn parts, an amazing brazen demagogy, and there are no denying that there are countless criminals coming into Hungary among the so-called refugees, and countless criminals are going on from here. If you'll walk through the border section - please. - ripped up personnel documents can be found. In the short films on the most popular video-sharing portal, the films produced by N1 television, Alpha news and other crews show perfectly the scattered, torn documents, making themselves unidentifiable. [[Dr. András Schiffer: How do you know they're criminals?]] And we also need to see if, for example, the residents of the camps would require a serious investigation of whether the Madrid bomber was actually in a refugee shelter in Hungary for ten and a half months before he gave his head to what he was doing. So there are also unidentifiable elements in the hostels, and Hungary is in an amazing position because it does not know who they are. Here is a very important question: if we want to restore the border guard - Jobbik wants us to restore the border guard if we do not want to have refugee hostels that are open in whole or in part within a populated area, so where we can get in and out of and in contact with the civilian population, and if we want to do so - and it is very difficult to prevent the government from a better place now, because the question is, rhetorically, what is the extent of this action - so if we want to achieve all these restrictions, then the question arises whether you have been able to sit down with the competent bodies of the European Union, because two of these three are serious plans, which are contrary to the EU rules currently in force. [[12.20]] It doesn't bother us that much, but the protection of Hungarian citizens is an absolute priority for us, but it has been proven to you many times that, if the EU requires something, snaps, Hungary - at least you, the current government of Hungary - will act in such a way. So the question arises whether you have been able to sit down with the competent Serbs, or whether you are having a beautiful communication war in the Hungarian virtual space with internal political stabilization, while nothing is happening. The Prime Minister's statement that it needs to be tightened up hard, I can fully support it. The huge problem is that since these statements were made, we have modestly estimated that at least 15,000 illegal offenders have invaded Hungary, within the territory of the European Union, without you doing anything about it, and have not moved. In the Digotthalm region, where Mayor László Toroczkai, who carries out a very serious campaign with three field guards in order to ensure that illegal violators do not violate the rights and everyday life of the civilian population, there is a thermal camera that is supposed to provide seven or eight kilometers away from anyone's movement. That's gonna run into a monitor room, I believe, for Röszke. Guess how many times anyone's gone out on this signal. In fact, not once, because at the foot of the thermal camera - beautifully drawn in the snow - there is a path on which hundreds of trespassers march into the territory of Hungary every day without meeting anyone. Then, on the inside, of course, police units will find these people, round them up, and eventually they will be surveyed in Szeged, where they will be shown that there is a refugee shelter in Debrecen, and then these people will start virtually supervised, unattended, crossing the country. When we brought this problem to the attention of Secretary of State Kontra a year ago, based on the figures we said that the number of asylum seekers in Hungary had increased eight to nine times, but at that time there was no problem, they said that criminal statistics had not deteriorated, that serious crimes had not occurred. But if you ask Gergely Kulcsár, who lives in Debrecen and is familiar with the relations of the refugee camp in Debrecen, or if you ask the Balassagyarmatians, where there is a church and a school in the vicinity of the refugee hostel within 200 metres, they will classify the specific cases by signing the thousands of local residents who fill the petitions that you have ignored for years. It's time for action, it's time for action, it's time for action. And once again, I would be very careful to protect everyone from the MSZP colluding that is trying to make a sign of equality between Hungarian refugees in 56 and Hungarians in Transcarpathia, real political refugees from third countries and criminals. That's an untenable position! We all know in this room that there are a very good number of criminals hiding among the 10 000 refugees threatening Hungary, a very good number of people who abuse liberal regulation, and who want to get into the territory of the European Union, partly living on the social system of Hungary, from economic considerations, without any kind of political persecution. Once again, I would like to emphasise that if there is real persecution, it must be protected, Hungary must also provide protection for it, but this can only be shown and experienced in a small part of the cases. I would like to stress once again that the dismantling of the border guard was an amazing mistake, Jobbik is calling for this to be restored, but in the meantime, with the current fleet of devices - I mentioned the example of the thermal camera, but I could also mention others - it would be possible not only to secure our borders, but also to reverse a good part of the great flood of refugees. Do not believe that, for example, on the Serbian side, only the aims of reversing refugees arise. László Toroczkai's presentation by Mayor László Toroczkai, the Mayor of Digotthalm, shows that even by bribing officials, many asylum seekers can easily enter the borders of the Union, as if there were no Serbian border guards. And we also need to see that there are people coming from Kosovo, not some people, but whole streets, whole families, whole village communities, very well briefed, educated by smugglers, first settled in Subotica and crossing the border at the right time. So you can see that this is all organized. Is it expected to calm down? Not really. Even if the situation in Kosovo is resolved, we can see that the number of Syrian asylum seekers increased by 601 percent in one year and the Iranians by 688 percent. At the same time, we have seen that very serious masses of millions are waiting for refugees to enter the EU in other regions. In Jordan alone, it is estimated that 1.5 million refugees in Lebanon and 1.7 million refugees at the Syrian and Turkish borders are waiting to arrive in Europe in any way. It is not the only path to Hungary. It is true, then, that an internal tightening could be used to prevent the flood from pouring through Hungary. And here, let us also remember that humanitarian disaster is also taking place. When Krisztina Morvai moved to the region for a weekend, or paid tribute to several members of Jobbik's leadership there, and we received a very decent briefing and insight into everyday life there, we could see that many asylum seekers come with small children, come with a few months of babies, and there have been deaths. So let us not forget that Hungary and all stakeholders have the responsibility to deal with a serious humanitarian disaster. Then the subjective sense of security of local residents is very disturbed when two Syrian young men break into the farmhouse, pick up the parquet and set fire to it - because this has happened, it is also in the film - but it also interferes with their subjective sense of security by hijacking their car, by a group of 40 people standing around and demanding that they be taken as taxi drivers to Szeged. At the same time, they are also disturbed by the fact that they have to look at the suffering of frozen young children every day because the Hungarian authorities and other authorities - although there is still a system of instruments - are trying to act with their strength, but with such human resources and such government indecision, they simply cannot complete their task. It can be seen that the 17,8 kilometers of excavation in the border section we are talking about, and the 62 kilometers that affect the whole region would be easy to ensure, even with the current fleet of equipment, it would be very difficult to do so, so it would not be necessary to immediately restore the 2500 border guards on the two Schengen border sections, this could be a longer-term process, or at least a longer-run process, but what is happening at the moment is that Hungary's borders, apart from border crossing points, are essentially not protected by anyone, the fact that a 50-person Kosovo team can walk on Calvary Avenue, or that they walk from the border to the big city and they don't meet anyone, is absolutely amazing. As is the fact that from these tens of thousands of floods, the number of people who disappear from the eyes of the authorities within two weeks can be estimated to be 50 percent. Thus, unidentified persons or unidentified persons march through Hungary and establish contact with the civilian population in the order of 10,000. This is not only about human rights issues, but also about guaranteeing the subjective sense of security of Hungary and its population. And here we also need to raise a longer-term problem. It is true that the issue of emigration deserves at least that much emphasis, but we also need to see that if Hungary is unable to reproduce itself, so if we are not able to recharge the depopulated Hungarian countryside with life and allow the birth of a sufficient number of children, then the empty Hungary will attract the immigrants, the refugees for whom the conditions here are more tempting compared to where they came from. So if, in the long term, we do not resolve this issue in a strategic way, Hungary will sooner or later become a country of destination, regardless of government color and political relations. For this reason, every Hungarian government and political force has an immeasurable responsibility to contribute to enabling Hungary's reproduction, so that our country does not become an attractive destination for any refugee, for any immigrant, because once again I stress that it is necessary to help those living in deprivation and persecution, to support them, but it cannot be a goal of mass resettlement in Hungary, it cannot be a goal to finance their supply of Hungarian taxpayers' money here in the order of hundreds of thousands for years. However, a vibrant, strong, growing Hungary can defend itself against any invasion. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-84	Thank you very much. Mr András Schiffer, head of the LMP faction, will be the lead speaker. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the one hand, it is indeed welcome that, in contrast with, for example, the emigration debate day, the Fidesz fraction is taking part in this debate with such intensity and numbers. However, I would like to go back in time to how this new main event was born in the steam room of the Habony works. After the tragic bombing in Paris in January, after the Charlie Hebdo bombing, it was suddenly this topic that Fidesz, as the colleague before me rightly said, began to overtake Jobbik from the right. [[12.30]] I'd like to go back to the fact that in January we weren't talking about Fidesz planning an immigration debate here. As a result of the Paris assassination, a few days after the assassination, Antal Rogán Group leader initiated a multi-party consultation on News TV to develop a national counter-terrorist strategy. At the time, we were talking about you, very responsiblely, trying to take action on the national counter-terrorism strategy. We were partners in this. But we have already indicated that mixing counter-terrorism with anti-immigration is quite simply unscrupulous. Slowly, as the weeks passed and the various surveys were carried out, it was forgotten that Hungary would otherwise have something to do to combat terrorism, and very slowly, less nicely and less slowly, of course, but the communication of the Habony works has shifted to the fight against immigration. It is no longer about wanting to put any multi-party agreement behind a national counter-terrorism strategy! What marked the communication of recent weeks is that they have loosely, unscrupulously mixed terrorism with immigration, immigrants with refugees, mixed the situation in Eastern Europe and southern Europe with the situation in Western Europe. [[György Balla intervenes.]] It is very interesting, however, that even though we know the statistics, I would like to wait, Mr Balla Group Director, for the explanation of how the problem did not exist before the Charlie Hebdo assassination, you did not talk about the flood of immigrants at all here, Lajos Kósa did not train himself as an asylum specialist before 11 January, then the Charlie Hebdo assassination took place, and then suddenly this slipped up to the top of the Fidesz communication. What happened in Hungary after January 11th? Those alarm numbers you told me, they existed before January 11th. That's nothing to prove but that you're led by simple, professional, vote-gathering intent and unscrupulousness. I'm telling you once again, the colleague here is quite right, and it was simply a matter of looking at the data: you have to beat Jobbik to the right. That's what the whole story is about. Dear House of Representatives, In addition to the fact that you have changed very loosely from combating terrorism to combating immigration, I think that the responsible government and responsible Parliament should also address the other issue. Perhaps it should be addressed, for example, that training camps are already operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not too far from the southern border of Hungary. It should be borne in mind that, not far from the southern border of Hungary, there is already a regional centre for extremist Islamist movements, and there is information that, in addition to Vienna, the radical Vahabite groups in the Balkans want to set up a regional centre in Budapest. Why don't you talk about that? Why don't you talk about what kind of European cooperation Hungary would like to initiate in this difficult situation in the Balkans? Dear Parliament, I think that it is perhaps appropriate to correct certain concepts in this debate. Asylum is a clear distinction between refugees, protected people and asylum seekers. The refugee, right, is a person who is persecuted for racial, religious reasons or is persecuted for his political convictions, and is asking for refugee status, which is why he is applying for refugee status. In the case of the protected person, there is no condition for recognition as a refugee, but there is a risk that if sent back to the country of origin, he would be seriously harmed. This situation has also occurred in the last 20-25 years, when, in the case of groups leaving their country in bulk, it was decided either by the Union or by the government that refugees would be accepted in bulk in Hungary or in other EU countries. Dear Parliament, According to Eurostat data for 2013, there are 141 thousand foreign citizens in Hungary, about 1.4 percent of the people living here. That 7.5-8 thousand legal applicants must be clearly separated from illegal immigrants on the one hand and from asylum seekers on the other. Various surveys also show that you are scaring people with economic immigrants and talking about economic immigrants and living immigrants, that those who have settled here in the last 15-20 years have a higher employment rate than the Hungarian average, unemployment is lower, more TB is paying more taxes. So it happens that economic immigration in Hungary is not true for all countries, although the Commissioner is yelling, especially economic immigration has brought positive results for Hungary in the last 15-20 years. That is why I ask you to be clear and to stop the unscrupulous slide that you've started in the last few weeks between different concepts and different groups. 90 percent of those arriving in Hungary go further from Hungary. Hungary is a transit country. The number of refugees with protected status is less than 3,000. On 31 December 2014, 213 thousand foreigners remained permanently in Hungary. Hungary has spent 15,000 of its budget on the asylum system, and this budget has increased from 1.1 billion to 2.6 billion in the last three years, despite increasing pressure. Dear Parliament, Different criminological research has also shown that aliens, as opposed to what Mr Z. Kárpát said earlier, are more victims of the crime than perpetrators of the crime. In 1991-92 there was a great refugee pressure in Hungary, due to the South Slavic war. One year, 50,000 people, the following year, applied for asylum in Hungary. The then non-EU member Hungary was able to address this problem. In 2014, the European Union gave Hungary HUF 456 million for asylum tasks, 385 million for the return of migrants and 4.3 billion for border surveillance. We can also conclude that Hungarian practice is not inclusive, for example because of the lack of social and educational capacities that would help the social integration of refugees. It is worth looking at the fact that despite the increase in the number of applications, 462 applications were assessed positively in 2012 in Hungary, in 2014, despite the increase, 535. Austria is not exactly famous for its reception, where 28 percent of applicants are judged positive, Hungary, 2013 data, 2 percent. It is a fraction of the EU average as regards positive assessment in Hungary. So it may be that, in the opinion of Mr Z. Carpathian, thank God, I should not consider this, but the facts show that the type of invasion that you were talking about and the type of crisis that you are talking about simply does not exist. It is also worth considering what the government itself has said. Not the previous government, the Orbán government in 2013. He said this is 1698/2013. Government decision, which I quote:.. Despite the fact that the proportion of foreigners to total population has shown a steady increase over the last three decades, it is likely that migration to Hungary will not continue to increase significantly in the period 2014-2020. It is also necessary to stimulate the number of people who come to the country for economic purposes and work - dear Mr Kósa - with a view to making a living. This is your government's decision, signed by Viktor Orbán sk. Prime Minister. [[Lajos Kósa intervenes.]] Dear Lajos Kósa! I can also quote Viktor Orbán, a former Viktor Orbán. [[Lajos Kósa and György Balla keep interrupting.]] [[12.40]] Dear Lajos Kósa! If you won't let me finish [[Lajos Kósa: Yes, you can. ...a lot of stupid things.]] I just want to remind you that you're the one who keeps slipping. You are the one who confuses Kosovo refugees with economic immigrants. Look at the title of the debate day, look at your earlier statements. You're the ones who have been consciously and unscrupulously slipping and lying for weeks. You are the ones who consciously, purposefully confuse these categories. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] At the time of Viktor Orbán's first prime minister, he said that Hungary should receive millions of immigrants in the next five years, so that it can ensure the pace of economic growth. He also said that Hungary can provide a living for up to 14 million people. Dear Parliament, It is also worth considering what suggestions have been made here in recent weeks. They're talking about accelerated procedures. Lajos Kósa went so far that for three days - three days! - would reduce this procedure. It's simply not possible. It should be taken into account that a significant part of asylum seekers - I am not talking about Kosovo, it is not just about them. [[György Balla: Why not about them?]] -, for asylum seekers... [[Lajos Kósa: 90% of them are from Kosovo!]] Mr. President, try to clean this up, or have the housekeeper take it out...
u2015-02-20-86	Don't advise the president, don't criticize the president's actions.
u2015-02-20-87	Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-88	Get your thoughts together. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] You guys calm down. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] You guys calm down. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. ) We've got Friday all afternoon, everyone, if you ask for the floor, you'll get it. (Performance in the ranks of Fidesz. )
u2015-02-20-89	I am glad that this reveals to Szilárd Németh that when persecuted people arrive in Hungary or in any foreign continent, country, there are seriously traumatized people who, in many cases, cannot be questioned within three days. Where appropriate, traces of torture shall be recorded, expert advice shall be obtained, as appropriate. [[Lajos Kósa: Stop fooling around, Andrew.]] You need to ask questions in a foreign country. Compared to this, this procedure is one of the fastest in Europe today: it is possible to reach the final decision in 3-6 months. As far as asylum detention is concerned, what you are proposing is exactly what would turn Hungary into a refugee camp. No budgetary resources are currently available for this. Between 2007 and 2009, when there was no practice of automatically arresting persons, 2-4 thousand people applied for asylum. In 2014, when strict detention practices came in, there were 43 thousand asylum seekers. So it is not true that automatic asylum detention will deter people from seeking asylum, so to speak. Dear Parliament, I think it is important, for example, to talk about the collapse of statehood in Kosovo itself, because that is the reason that we are here, that is what we should be talking about. We should talk about Hungary's international development policy. We should talk about Hungary's initiatives on the European Union's asylum policy and immigration policy. We should talk about how a deeper integration of immigration policy could be achieved within the European Union. And last but not least, until there is no response to global imbalances within the European Union, there is no response to the United States of America, these problems will continue to grow again. The exploitation of economic policy around the world will produce refugee price data over and over again. The fact is that today the European Union is the most competitive economy in Germany; it is the most competitive economy because it exploits the ability to employ them for low wages for 8 million immigrants. As long as Hungary wants to compete with other countries in the downward price and wage competition, it will also be a fan [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] the global processes that, by the way, continue to cause a flood of refugees. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-90	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, so we now have an independent speech. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a total of 8 minutes for independent Members throughout the debate. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó, who was the first to apply. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, If you listen to me... [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] You lie, you lie and you lie. And with the best of intentions, I have to say [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Bakes of you!]] That they have no idea what they're talking about, is when they say in one of their sentences that they've fled, and in the other, they say that they're an economic immigrant. Viktor Orbán and you repeat as parrot that we will not be a refugee camp [[György Balla: That's right!]] But in their next sentence, they say that, of course, we have to help asylum seekers, and then they say that we are not really a refugee camp here, but we are the target of living immigrants. And then they say that Hungary is not, in fact, the target of immigrants, because they do not want to stay here. Károly Kontrat said more than once that Hungary is a transit country. [[Károly Kontra: Now!]] So you have no idea what you're talking about with the best of intentions. There was never a purpose for immigrants in Hungary, you said so yourself. Unfortunately, while we're talking about this, what we're seeing is that it's your buddies who are handing out settlement bonds for exactly, many, many millions of dollars. Your friends, ex-bibo co-workers in Malta are handing out this thing to applicants for establishment in Somalia, Azerbaijan, South Africa and Thailand. Károly Kontra said that Hungarian people are rightly concerned about this issue. But, Mr Secretary, the Hungarian people do not care about this issue! This is a question you're generating. [[István Tukacs: Exactly! He's right.]] It's because even you can't decide whether it's a refugee or an immigration issue and it's being washed up with terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, It is no more eloquent example that you have no idea what you're talking about, Antal Rogán's recent statement at the RTL Club, where György Baló asked him the first obvious question about how many immigrants you think live in Hungary. Antal Rogán said, quote: "I cannot answer that, but we do not consider it an important question. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Then, my fellow members of the Government, what is the important issue here, if not how many immigrants there are in Hungary? ! [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Speak nicely in Parliament! There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You're lying about this whole thing, confusing concepts. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] But do you know who the immigrant is in Hungary? I'll tell you. For example, in Gábor Kubatov's Ferencváros football team, the battler Somalia. Or the goalkeeper Branislav Danilovich, on the way up. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Racist! That's a racist speech!]] Or, dear Lajos Kósa, on your team in Debrecen, Ibrahima Sidi, Senegal, who scored 53 goals in the last 132 matches. [[Lajos Kósa: He is a French citizen!]] He's still an immigrant! [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell. Lajos Kósa: Nazism! He's negroing!]] Senegalese origin, French...
u2015-02-20-92	Stop!
u2015-02-20-93	The French citizen is also an immigrant if he lives here, my dear fellow Member. [[Constant interruptions. Lajos Kósa: Shame on you! You're talking about a French citizen!]]
u2015-02-20-94	Dear fellow Members, Hang on, let's stop the clock. Honourable pro-government and opposition representatives!
u2015-02-20-95	But with your standards...
u2015-02-20-96	Even Congressman Lajos Kósa! The thing is...
u2015-02-20-97	... even Orbán Rachel is an immigrant...
u2015-02-20-98	...you have three more hours, everyone can speak up. [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-99	Mr. President, please stop the clock for this time. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2015-02-20-100	Everyone can say the word, and you'll get the floor. Just hold back a little, and then the weekend will come, and you can relax.
u2015-02-20-101	That's right, thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-02-20-102	Three hours is still available from the debate. Let us restore the clock to the Congresswoman and tell her what she has to say, and you will listen with respect, as everyone else has said. Here.
u2015-02-20-103	Mr President, I'm gonna need a 30-minute extension for that. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You lie even when you say that the European Union is not helping Hungary. Hungary receives more than five billion forints a year from the European Union for border protection and asylum. We didn't understand and look at these spendings, and what we see is that hundreds of millions of forints are spent on night vision cameras, for example. Well, maybe you need to spend it more intelligently. But where do these immigrants come in, my dear Secretary of State? [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: There are not enough night vision cameras!]] Maybe we shouldn't spend it on night vision cameras, we should spend it for a better purpose. They are lying, my honourable members of the Government, about detention as well. Asylum seekers could already be held for six months, and you are holding them for exactly six months. All the detention centers are full in Hungary today, and unfortunately, for the most part, asylum seekers are actually being held. By the way, I will tell you what would happen, my fellow Members, if your family were tortured, if your wife, your partner, were raped, tortured, killed, and fled from war. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You think these people won't run away from their country just because they're gonna be held prisoner for a few months? When they fear for their lives and flee from death? What a thought that is! ? A little more humane with these fellows. [[12.50]] Unfortunately, it is also a lie, my dear fellow Member Kósa, how to speed this up. I can't! Even so, they can be held for 6 months, 4-5 months in the procedure. Then they can be held longer than the procedure takes - then why tighten it up? The Curia has also said that it should not be tightened up, but indeed, if I have understood correctly from the words of the Secretary of State, the Commonwealth is now being capitalised a little bit, so to speak, to hire more people. Indeed, it can be a solution, but speeding up time is physically impossible. And do you know why? Not because of the Union, but because of the European Convention on Human Rights, because if they speed up on this, then I will also say this to Gergely Gulyás, who knows at least the law. [[Defiance. Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] - The treaty will be crushed, because if they don't let the procedure go through, they'll be violating their right to a fair trial. What's gonna lead to this? A series of Strasbourg procedures. What's gonna lead to that? Punishments and hundreds of millions of fines that the Hungarian State will have to pay. [[Szabó Timea drinks water from the glass in front of him. Intercom from Fidesz: We're not in the pub!]] No, don't confuse me, my fellow Member, I'm not in the pub, because I've been drinking water, but I'm here among you, although many times you really create a pub atmosphere here. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The problem in Kosovo does exist, but it is not the kind of answers you give. For example, if I understood correctly, it may have been said that temporary camps are being opened to care for these unfortunates. It is indeed a solution that we could support, that especially now, in wintertime, and unlike Matthias Firtl, I cannot agree with or interpret the fact that they are throwing away their clothes for miles. Of course, a man with an unfortunate fate on the run during winter does nothing like throwing away his clothes and going on in his bathing suit because it's his hobby. So, really, let's at least leave these Borner things in the walls of this House. Help them with temporary accommodation, help them to get back if they really do not meet the requirements for asylum and the Geneva Convention. But what do border guards do now, what does the Hungarian authorities do? By the way, not for his own fault, I would add that they cannot be returned on land, so they must be returned through the Vienna or Istanbul airport with a very expensive procedure, because since Malév went bankrupt, they cannot be returned by air. I would suggest to my fellow Members that, before continuing this completely insane debate day that you have initiated, you should answer where you are going for the 5 billion forints a year given by the Union. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] How do you want to help? And, for example, do you think that...
u2015-02-20-104	I'm asking you to stop.
u2015-02-20-105	... that the problem must be prevented at its source, and, let's say, lobbying the EU to bring more development money to Kosovo, because it will not self-absorption. [[They're shutting off his mike.]] , the problem must be eliminated at its root.
u2015-02-20-106	Congresswoman, I've given you half a minute, and you've gone a quarter of a minute. I'm gonna need you to finish your comment. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dear Parliament, There are now two-minute speeches. In a number of ways, it is beneficial that Mr Lajos Kósa first applied for a statement. You have the floor.
u2015-02-20-107	Mr. President. Dear House, In the beginning, I said that we really should avoid confusing concepts, and most speakers said things out of context. For example, my fellow Member Schiffer accused us of confusing immigration with terrorism, and then began to talk about the terrorist threat for a long time, while, by the way, it is about immigration. Many have made the mistake of mixing citizens of the EU Member State working in our country with immigrants who otherwise seek asylum in the European Union outside the European Union. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a fundamental right in the European Union that allows citizens of the European Union to freely decide on the territory of the European Union. They are not immigrants or immigrants, as they were saying from Mr Harangozó to Szabó Timea. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] I would like to point out once again that the fundamental right of the European Union is that any European citizen can decide where he wishes to live, work, study freely and not be confused with the fact that, for example, tens of thousands of people are seeking refugee status in the European Union at the Hungarian border. You guys keep confusing this. [[Interview from Fidesz: They don't understand.]] I'm sure you don't understand this concept, but they're not emigrants, they're not immigrants, they're European citizens. It was quite astonishing that the Hungarian political refugee wave in connection with the events of 56 was emphasized by the speaker of the MSZP, forgetting that those people fled from your predecessors of rights from a war country, which became a war country because your predecessors called the Soviet army into the country. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: How many have gone out in five years because of you? How many have left the country?]] Mixing this with the current refugee wave is outrageous! [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Discuss with Putin! Soviets, that's the truth, Bolsheviks! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-20-108	Dear Parliament, As no other Members have asked for a word in two minutes, we will continue and begin the contributions of the speakers who have been announced. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mátrai, representative of Fidesz. Here you go. I would ask you to listen to the speaker. Here.
u2015-02-20-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Today we are discussing a point on which we are unfortunately not able to say good things. It is a sad fact that when a person has to flee his homeland, it is disappointing if he cannot live in his country, and it is not easy for people with unknown habits to settle in compulsively with other peoples with all their difficulties. There is not a single uplifting moment in this story, but it needs to be addressed, because in this uncertain period of global economy and politics, society is causing unrest and has a serious impact on our everyday lives. It is therefore our job for politicians to get to know the views of society and each other, talk about possible solutions and try to anticipate the possible consequences. It is predictable that we do not agree on everything, but responsible thinking and direct speech are the only solution here. We must address the issue of immigration without any actual political gain, with the seriousness and responsibility of people who can understand each other. The questions of immigration management concern the future, but our answers can only feed on past experiences and the knowledge of the present. The civil government has also laid down the moral principles of Hungary in the Fundamental Law, so we will protect the life of the generations that follow us. This is why the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association has proposed a common thinking about the current problem affecting the future of the nation, but also at European level, which is disturbing. Immigration in Europe is not a new problem, but our vision and hearing did not want to understand its real significance. In this area, therefore, we must stay away from the unworthy thinking of anti- Alienism and act as responsible politicians, understand and feel all the risks involved. A list of dogmatic platitudes should be avoided because it does not clear our ability to understand each other or the situation. What are the principles and practical needs of immigration in Europe today? - we can ask the question. The reception of aliens is based on the humanity of European social principles, based on a millennia of suffering stories based on persecution, humiliation, wars, genocide and cruelty. The experience of European survival is now enshrined in international conventions - see Geneva Convention - and law, the law on the protection of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of those who are forced to leave their country, the 2007 LXXX. law on asylum. Dear Parliament, Another consequence of the issue of immigration is the comfort of European generations of well-being. While people in developed European countries have fewer children because of their individual life goals, this declining population has become a demanding worker with high expectations. [[13.00]] Immigration has been encouraged in certain jobs and at certain times. Without the help of immigrants, their comfortable lives would collapse in weeks. This is not the case in Hungarian society, however. We have busy hands, who also undertake uncomfortable work, and even the civil government encourages Hungarian people to live from work rather than from support. We believe that any work that creates value and makes a living is useful. We primarily expect immigrants to have expertise, new knowledge, better habits and more colorful everyday life. The starting point is that we are not discussing immigration as a theoretical question far from us, but as a European problem, which directly or indirectly affects all countries. We can factually draw the conclusion from the processes and data that we are no longer talking about immigration, but about migration. On the sea and on land, refugee flows are so large that it is no longer an immigration issue but a part of security policy. The fleeing masses do not come by war and not by weapons, but by organization, by masses, by families and finally. They're looking for a new country for their people. We must therefore raise this issue not only as a question of alien police at European level, but also as a matter of resettlement. Honor calls for a mention that today, unfortunately, part of the desperate migration was caused by the short-sightedness that led the peoples of other customs to believe that the spread of welfare democracy could make their country better and fairer. The export of democracy has failed badly. Wherever these missionaries went, they were accompanied by weapons, and today there is chaos and more hopelessness than before the revolutions, and hundreds of thousands of civil wars and refugees. Hundreds of thousands of people perished in the plan to improve, countries broke down, cruelty reached unimaginable proportions, and millions became land runners and fled their countries. We should also mention the risk associated with immigration. It is also necessary to face the fact that immigrants who do not have the means to make a living that they imagine can easily get lost in their struggle for existence. Increasing immigration aims to create jobs and ensure a decent living on the part of the state, which is significantly hampered by the lack of language skills and the diversity of cultural habits. The other area is the public health risk. France today has one of the richest experiences on immigration in Europe. The second, third-generation immigrants who were born in France went to French school, taught French culture, and remained strangers. The question of whether they feel French is answered in a choir that they don't. Some people come from culture who are easily integrated, while others will never adapt to the custom of the host country. If we answer the question by not wanting to integrate immigrants and encourage them to remain in the faith and customs of their ancestors, to what extent can the presence of foreign customs and new life forms be tolerated in Hungarian cities? - anyone can ask that question. Who is now in certain districts of Paris, London or Brussels, if he did not look up to the centuries-old buildings, he would sometimes feel out of Europe. The immigrant can be expected to respect local traditions on behalf of the heirs of language knowledge, tradition and culture, while maintaining local customs and the right to free religious practice. The resulting conflicts cannot be interpreted according to the needs of immigrants. Those who resent our traditions have come to the wrong place. Dear Parliament, In addition, our commitments to the persecuted must be fulfilled, whose lives are in danger in their homeland. Refugees are also provided for in international conventions and laws. Returning to the big questions of the debate day, it is worth looking for historical examples. For us Hungarians, the warnings of our King Szent István can provide guidance, evaluated in other historical circumstances and circumstances. I don't think we should go any further today. The guests and the newcomers benefit so much that they can stand in the sixth place of royal dignity. After all, the Roman Empire grew in the beginning, so that the kings of Rome were exalted and glorified, that many noble and wise came to them from different lands. For as the guests come from different lands and provinces, they bring with them a different language and custom, a different example and a different weapon, and all this adorns the country, raises the light of the court, and deters foreigners from puffing. Because a country with one language and a custom is weak and fallible. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, In the correct interpretation of the wise advice of the founder of the Hungarian state, we must highlight some of the historical turns that still apply today. The aliens profit, the arrivals are noble and wise. They set a different example, which adorns the country and raises the light of the court. I believe that Hungary has no better guidelines on immigration after a thousand years. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches and the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-20-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, will follow. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-111	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, In fact, it cannot be understood that he is an immigrant for a living. Fidesz invented this term to brand foreigners arriving here to find another scapegoat that people might be angry with. That's his extreme right rhetoric. The government has led us to dangerous waters. We know that they talk about this to distract attention from the real problems. What are these real problems, questions? One of the issues that has been on the table for years is the corruption business, the smack machine that Fidesz-KDNP operates for friends, but we can also talk about two other very related issues. Let's talk emigration. In recent years hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens have left the country in search of a better life. There are many numbers orbiting emigration, but even KSH accounts for at least 350,000 people, but some people talk about 500,000 people. It is certain that if we ask our acquaintances, everyone has heard, knows about emigrating Hungarians, but few know about the problem in Kosovo, some of whom would not be here if they had not been taken off the train. Who do you think are the Hungarian citizens emigrating from Hungary? What do they call them? Living for emigrants? What would we think if a German or British government party spoke of our countrymen as living immigrants? I would like to tell you one thing: today 19 out of 20 18-year-olds surveyed say that they want to leave Hungary. How does the government feel about spending 3-4 percent of GDP today on the money that the outsiders send home to their families so that they can make a living at home? Surveys show that this is the real income for many today, not what they can earn at home with work, or not what the state gives with great kindness, and otherwise, in a few decades' time, we will need immigrants to leave our country if young people leave our country like this. Let's talk about the other main issue, poverty. This is perhaps the most important issue in Hungary today. Although Minister Zoltán Balog believes that it is primitive and foolish to argue that poverty is decreasing or rising, let us not forget that the proportion of people living in poverty, including children, is rising dynamically, I say this based on OECD, Eurostat and UNICEF data, but they are not accused of claiming stupidity. Today we also know that poverty should not be talked about in Hungary - as in the curse. Instead of the poor, there are people in need, instead of a stadium it is a sports establishment, because Hungary is performing better. It's not enough to believe that, so you have to communicate so that the world is deeply, subconsciously rewritten, so that we can brainwash ourselves in case the government propaganda machine, called the 80 billion-dollar public service media, doesn't get the results. [[13.10]] This is what the Ministry Guide is about, which tells workers what terms should be used and what should not be used. In essence, instead of telling the truth, the government encourages its subordinates to lie, rather than explain the facts. True, the people, the voters can be deceived. Fidesz knows that very well. But you can't keep them lying for long, because the truth always comes out. It turns out that the disabled who have been called impostors have indeed changed their ability to work; it turns out that what they have been promised, when they have lost their care, there is no job - even for healthy ones. There were not a million new jobs, there were no more normally paid jobs, there were no more in the pockets of Hungarian families. They promised the pensioners safety, but it turns out they took away a few hundred thousand people's pensions, their benefits. They said they wouldn't leave anyone on the side of the road, but it turns out they did. Now they're taking away the social benefits of hundreds of thousands of people. When they've left everyone on the side of the road, all they do is dig an even wider ditch so that there's room to push everyone in. Today, this is the main issue in Hungary and not immigration. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-20-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Here comes the group of MEP László Földi, Christian Democratic People's Party. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Hungary's history has always been an inclusive country. Several times throughout history, he proved that he was able to help those in distress by exerting his strength. The fact that the current government and parliamentary majority are doing their work in the interests of the Hungarian people does not contradict this is particularly important for us to have a home, a job and a safety of life for the Hungarian people. This is what we were authorized to do by the voters, which is what we swore when we won our mandate. In recent weeks, we have faced a long - seen flood of refugees. This is not just our problem, not just our cause, but the problem that calls for an immediate solution for the European Union as a whole. At the same time, because of the geographical features, our country is in a special situation, because we are the border of the Union from Serbia, so this places us in a serious position. Under Union rules, Schengen countries are entitled, without further justification, to return illegal border crossings to the country from which they came and to carry out proceedings in relation to them. I think we all agree that we do not want Hungary to become a refugee camp, but if we do not act forcefully, then there is a danger of this. We must act, as will the German and Austrian governments. German and Austrian decision-makers will certainly change the rules on immigrants. Thus, refugees arriving in Hungary will not be able to go any further, but will be stranded here. An invaluable number of economic immigrants can surprise our country, and none of us would like that, so we need to act decisively against border offenders accordingly. In the case of living and economic immigrants, the rules need to be tightened up, the possibility for police officers to take migrants into foreign police custody and to expel them from Hungary as soon as possible, in order to ensure that Hungary is truly only able to grant refugee status to those in need. I believe that thanks to the strong action of the Hungarian police, it will also become clear in the Balkans that it is not worth coming to Hungary, as they will be deported. If all of this happens, the flow of refugees will automatically calm down, I am convinced. Those who say that we should not close our borders to economic immigrants may not be aware of Hungary's economic potential. I would add that those who closed them to Hungarians across the border on 5 December 2004 would now open the gates to migrants. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right.]] But let their conscience deal with it. This situation was resolved six years later, but now we cannot wait another six years, and action must be taken. Just because the Hungarian reception centres operate with maximum utilisation, it is impossible to place a flood of refugees, and this is what they would expect us to do because of the German and Austrian regulations that are expected to tighten. This also represents a significant financial burden for Hungary, as we need to provide accommodation, health care and other support to refugees. We cannot do this even with the dynamic development of our economy. It has to be said that we are not able to provide care and work for living immigrants. It follows that we must find an immediate solution to the problem. I would like to remind you that we have already made this decision once, but the Union has brought proceedings against us, so the government had to change these standards in 2013. Subsequently, the number of illegal immigrants increased. Ladies and gentlemen, We have no choice but to make a decision in the interests of the Hungarian people. The use of words may be tough, but it is still true: we must close the gates of Hungary and the European Union to economic immigrants. To do this, we need to make the right, strict decisions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-114	Thank you very much. Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik, please.
u2015-02-20-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about a less affected and less frequently said topic, migration or, if you like, immigration health, because we also need to see that there is room for a serious assessment and assessment of the situation from a health point of view, when we are talking about the issue of migration, as these are strictly security issues, which also raise public health and epidemiological issues. So the most important thing is to first assess the health emergency, to recognise whether our country or even our region is in an emergency. The possibilities for health care and the possibilities of epidemiological measures must also be examined; it is also necessary to examine whether our current health structure is suitable and what changes need to be made in it, and what legislative changes are necessary to be able to adequately combat and manage the current wave of immigration and movements, which are otherwise reaching Hungary and which are becoming more and more powerful, even if we do not act against it. The first is therefore the detection of danger and danger. I think it is not disputed to anyone that the growing number of refugees or immigrants come from countries where there are absolutely no adequate public health conditions, even in Kosovo, which is further south of us, there are serious public health or epidemiological challenges, and in Hungary, by the way, we can say that there are no traces of the highest level of public health and epidemiological situation at European level, especially if we open its spectrum a little wider and whether we are talking about the Eastern countries or even African countries. It is very clear that in Kosovo, where the majority of immigrants come from, for example, from January 2015 to today, there has been a tularemia epidemic that last occurred in the early 1990s, which is spreading quite rapidly, as 206 diseases have occurred in the course of this month. All you need to know about this danger, tularemia, is what the common language calls a rabbit plague, a highly contagious and potentially fatal epidemic that could otherwise be treated well with antibiotics, and one of the treatments is a very radical surgical removal of pus lymph nodes. And how dangerous this epidemic or this infection itself is, it shows that the United States, the Soviet Union, and Japan have been experimenting with it for months to develop biological weapons, and have developed such biological weapons that could have been used to commit virtually more serious acts. So, if you will, a biological weapon, a weapon that is about to be unleashed by a migration process, lies next door to us. The emergency is also shown by the diseases of people from countries, typically Africans, coming to or coming to the European Union, to which the Ebola has drawn attention. At the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, everything in the international press, where public health and epidemiology were concerned, was the subject of ebola. [[13.20]] And indeed, a lot of people in those areas could potentially carry or carry this disease, although there are different positions in this, since the virus itself has an incubation period or overlaps in its path. However, the fact that there is such an epidemic creates a real emergency in Hungary, and this was not said first by the Hungarians, but by Italy, and he drew attention to the fact that they have to deal with immigrants from Ebola infected areas. Fortunately, the proportion of immigrants and arrivals from these countries is much lower in Hungary, but it is a real threat. The other, which is an immanent, i.e. an immediate emergency, means immigrants arriving in a long, exhausting and inhumane environment, practically eviscerated, who arrive at the border with health problems, or come to our country with health problems that require immediate, often life-saving care, during winter conditions and winter periods. Children, pregnant mothers and young people in cold or cold need a lot of intervention, which is a heavy burden for the Hungarian state and draws serious resources from health care, which is already not very good. The further danger that arises in this regard, both health and public health, is how we relate to these immigrants, so what is the process in which we can control their health at all. Here, then, it is necessary to divide those who, by some means or according to their own skill, are practically slipping out of the hands of the authority and can cross over and can proceed to the country without any control at all, without having been subjected to any public health or epidemiological investigations. These persons then go beyond public transport and are in contact with countless Hungarian citizens or travelers who may be potentially at risk; we can even say that with banal diseases such as, say, a flu epidemic that can have fatal consequences in some age groups, whether in children, older people or chronic patients. The process of investigations is much simpler when the state talks about the people who have been admitted, because it is mandatory to carry out these investigations at the reception centre, and I am telling you this because I hope that the public will get to know this otherwise well-heared detail a little better. Therefore, screening tests carried out at a statutory reception centre include or carry out activities such as ectoparasite screening, which relate to coagulation, lice testing, but is also carried out by blood taking, in addition to testing for HIV-1 and HIV-2 infections and for certain syphilis and sexual diseases, hepatitis B, C screenings are also carried out in these individuals. So we can say that the real problem may be that people who are accepted are in a good and controlled environment, and let's just say that although they place a heavy burden on Hungarian health care, they still receive a safe care at a relatively high level of health in Hungary. They will receive a secure screening that will otherwise prevent them from endangering the Hungarian population, but with those who somehow slip out of the hands of the authorities. Or, by the way, in view of the large number of refugees, they cannot or cannot fully carry out these screening tests for them, and they can leave these reception centres without them, or otherwise they will not be sent to a reception centre. So it would also be very important, and this is perhaps a European level, but since we are talking about Hungary, it is also a development of a Hungarian strategy that can help health screening to be extremely effective and immediate, and this requires a very effective Hungarian legislation. After all, it seems that for those who are not detained and accepted, it is a serious challenge for them to continue to communicate at all in a healthy way, and not to leave the Hungarian population untouched. In this respect, there were, by the way, some signals, and there was a research in which it was formulated that perhaps the most effective way to deal with this issue is with public health intervention and prevention, and that the best and most appropriate response in border areas could be prepared for care. This is in the joint paper by Péter Csepregi, Róbert Révai and András Huszár, published in the Hadtudományi Szemle, which says that it is possible to prepare for this by revealing the knowledge of the size and nature of the risk, the preparation for risk management, the morbidity profiles of the country of origin, the health culture and religious differences and related health and public health concerns. Professionals prepared for the specific needs of migrants should be employed and these professionals should be easily accessible. And, by the way, you can't really talk about border guards here, but the training of border guards in the field of health should take place even in the initial training, taking into account special needs and health risks, because without it, immigrants are a risk factor that we can't or can't handle in public health. In any case, it can also be said that the current health system is already facing major challenges for people who are admitted and staying at reception centres, since basic care, either basic or inpatient care, is a serious burden for the state. And it seems to be a heavy burden for the government as well, and often even regrets the money, and now it is necessary to share this health care and healthcare capacity with those who have been taken in, who also use our few doctors, who are also recovering in the indebted hospitals. They have the right to do so, and this should not be withheld, nor should it be concealed, that every person has the right to receive such care, but it is necessary to think about the resources that the Hungarian State can finance and provide these benefits when there are serious problems with its own internal care. Here, before the agenda, I have already mentioned the debt, and let's think about how much an even greater number of people admitted will be burdened with health care, and how much the debt of health institutions of a hundred billion will be increased by the investigations to be carried out in this case. But we can also say who will be the doctor who will otherwise go out, or who will be the general physician who is territorially competent, and who will, for example, carry out the necessary tests in Debrecen. And when will you carry out the tests that will be carried out on the Hungarian, regionally competent patients? What I propose as a future question and as a future point of view, and perhaps this is also a starting point in this area, because if it is a consultation, then let us say something that we would like to ask you to consult: here it is necessary to clarify how the people who are admitted or even refugees have access to health care. What status should it depend on? It should therefore depend on the status of the immigrant, they will be entitled to do so in the case of illegal immigrants; these conditions should also be clarified in the European Union, since there is no crystal clear legislation in this area, and even now professionals are working to define the individual health rights by definition and to link them to the individual status. On the other hand, it is necessary to clarify, as I have read here, the framework for effective action, on the basis of which legislation Hungary will be able to act in public health and epidemiological terms. It is necessary to clarify what to do with those who pass through without control and go on their way to Western Europe, who use Hungary as a transit country, what will become of the infectious diseases that come to Hungary on this transit route. Today, the Hungarian state is able to handle health care quite well with people who have been taken in or in custody, and this has been clarified, but it also needs to be clarified who will bear the burden of this and from what source it will bear. I have just mentioned that health care is under a heavy burden, on the one hand, the government does not seem to want to spend any money on it, and on the other hand, the money is very small. We are facing a global problem here: Hungary is spending money on health care in proportion to GDP, compared to all other countries. If more people need to be given more care, as this is our public health and epidemiological interest, we will have to spend more on health care. Question: Should this be borne by Hungary alone, these burdens should be borne by Hungarian taxpayers, Hungarian citizens, or should the European Union contribute, where appropriate, with much more resources than it currently contributes? Therefore, as a long-term solution, I propose that a solution be sought that does not impose a burden on the budget, does not create an extra burden on the health care system in this case, so that neither the institutions' indebtedness nor the human resources side, but that the population be effectively protected. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, my fellow Members, is interested and committed to maintaining and improving public health conditions at this level and to preventing epidemic diseases. It seems very much that Hungary, Italy and Great Britain currently represent Europe's public health villas, as they can be the last refuge of diseases not known or already missing in Europe, or their last bastion, which, if it falls, falls, will approach Europe's internal areas of already missing or unknown diseases without obstacles. [[13.30]] So I think that we should take these signals, these wordings, and proposals into account when we talk about what legislation can effectively compete with the health risks of migration, immigrants and the epidemiological risks of immigrants, so I suggest that we take these into account. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-116	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-02-20-117	Mr President, Dear House, We are very pleased that the second speaker of the KDNP has reached the point that action must be taken today. The question is what forms of action we can talk about, since more than 15 thousand people have crossed Hungary's borders illegally, essentially undisturbed, since the first government and Fidesz-KDNP leadership statements. So the substantive change is not yet visible in reality, but one of the KDNP speakers here has also spoken about the adoption of some kind of law. I don't know if he's looking over the agenda, or if there's a law coming up that we oppositionists don't know about. If there is such a thing, we are very happy about it, but obviously, in the realm of reality, there are no traces of it yet. And we also need to think about how the current government wants to protect our borders in practice, because the impossible situation - and there are a lot of people here to answer that - is that we are, in essence, the only Schengen border Member State in the European Union whose literal border guards are not equipped with the right means. So this untenable situation and contradiction should be resolved somehow. And it is also an important question for an answer - which we have already asked, but no one has answered it - about who the government is and which body of the European Union has already sat at a negotiating table or at all indicated to them that Hungary is suffering from this very serious situation, and there should be something to be done here in terms of burden sharing, and also in order not for Hungarian taxpayers to pay the costs that should not necessarily be borne by us as transit countries. So while the government, I say, is trying to overtake Jobbik from the right in rhetoric and communication, I would like to know the facts of reality: have they already contacted the European Union in this matter, and how, in particular, do they intend to guard the border until we have a permanent solution to the problems surrounding the restoration of the border guard? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-118	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to make a few points to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's speech, because within the countries of the European Union, Member, we cannot talk about immigration or emigration; more so, because people are moving within a common willed economic area. It is very ignorant to talk about emigrating from Hungary to England, Germany, France, or to list other EU countries for work, as you know that Hungary has been a member of the European Union since 1 May 2004. It is different, however, that if people come from countries outside the territory of the European Union with a mass of people, we call this immigration, because this is also declared by EU law - which is worth reading - because if a person crosses the border of Hungary without authorisation, Congresswoman, he is committing a prohibited border crossing, which is a criminal offence according to the legislation in force today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-120	Congressman Nándor Gúr is next, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Immigration or emigration? I would like to approach the issue from the point of view of Hungarian economic refugees from other countries in Europe, i.e. in their home country, so that you know that by 2010 there were about 80,000 people who lived their lives elsewhere and worked within the framework of the European Union, and in 2012 it was 280 to 300 thousand people. According to Matolcsy, in 2013, 500,000 people, and now we are talking about 600,000 people: 300,000 people in England, 100,000 people in Germany, 50,000 people in Austria and 50,000 people in other countries of the European Union, but I would add that this is 2013. In 2014, in the course of a year, the number of emigrants and economic refugees from Hungary to Austria increased by 20,000. You have a responsibility that you do not create normal conditions for people living here at home, that there is no job opportunity for people and that there is no normal livelihood. Bringing the issue of immigration into the walls of Parliament is cynical, because this is not a story about immigration. Now, what it is about is the flow of refugees, and there is the right legislative framework to address this issue. It is no coincidence, since last year there were 43,000 refugees, and out of 43,000 there were only 240 people who could actually stay here and land in Hungary. If we didn't have the rules, that wouldn't be the result of the story. So I would like to draw the government's attention to the need to focus on emigration and to draw its attention to the fact that they should not start national consultations, but seek solutions so that Hungarian people with working skills should not leave this country, but can stay home and earn decent wages. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-20-122	Thank you very much. Szilárd Németh is next, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I've been thinking about telling you about my pre-written speech. But I do not see that in this situation I would expect this at this short time, which I have at my disposal, because some things must be cleared up here in any way. I see that Parliament has been divided into two parts today: on the one hand, there are the successors of the Communist parties who are sitting here [[Uproar and clarity in the ranks of the MSZP.]] And they're practically on the side of illegal arrivals, illegal immigrants, economic refugees. It doesn't matter what the experience in this country is, it doesn't matter that those Hungarian citizens, the sons of our country, who are forced to suffer this flood every day, what they experience, what they say, what message they send to us, we've only heard such a bureaucrat, liberal mantra in Brussels all day, and it's practically added to a little Orbán-phobia, and then they told us their own business in this respect. However, I think that as a responsible party of government, we cannot stop at such a simple debate, we must constantly represent the interests of the Hungarian people, Hungary, on this issue as well. It is quite clear to everyone that the situation of illegal immigrants in 2015 is one of Hungary's biggest economic challenges and societal challenges. You can see how the numbers turned out: last year there were 43,000 illegal immigrants, not 270 of them, but almost 500 of them - but the others disappeared. They could disappear because they could go to Austria and Germany as a destination country today, but this will end as of 1 June, since both the Germans and Austria have made it clear that they will stop illegal economic immigration within their borders. However, as a Schengen country, we will be forced to suffer at this moment that the tens of thousands of people - and we are now in 2015, that by 19 February 2015, until 19 February 2015, there were almost 27 thousand such immigrants, and if we multiply this by six more by the end of the year, then we are going to have 150,000 people arriving in Hungary - these people will be back here in the second half of the year, this is the main problem. The main problem is that, at present, we cannot, on the basis of a 2012 EU procedure, apply the alien police procedure that we have been able to apply until 2012. The point of this was not, as they are trying to say here, to keep these people in prison by hundreds of thousands and thousands - I do not know what numbers have been said - but to keep them in prisons and jails, but to do so, with this alien police procedure, it was possible to achieve that tens of thousands of people from Kosovo did not come to Hungary every month so that they could drop off Germany or Austria as targets. So as the decision of the European Union was taken in 2012, the figures for 2013, 2014 and the 2015 figures I mentioned earlier make it clear that Hungary is forced to accept tens of thousands as a very serious transit country. [[13.40]] We have heard the warnings of King Szent István, and we have also heard the need for strangers to arrive in Hungary, the power of Hungary, the diversity of Hungary, to be represented by foreigners. This is a very important and very nice procedure if this is not done illegally. The people we're talking about on this debate day are illegal immigrants. Otherwise, those who come not from the European Union, but from outside the European Union, have all kinds of travel documents without a visa; if you will, they are already committing an infringement when crossing the border with Hungary. Of course, the comrades deliberately confuse this with the free flow of capital, services and labour within Europe. It's not the same thing. The European Union document was signed during your governance on 1 May 2004. You know exactly what's in this document, and you know exactly what you're doing is a simple slide, just to keep your own social-liberal ideas up. By the way, your solutions do not serve the interests of the Hungarian people, but only the interests of the economic refugees arriving here. There is also an immigration policy here, which we know is not an immigration policy, but a settlement policy, and it is also not worth mixing... [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP. One voice: Semantically! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Semantically, it's no good. It is also not on the issue that we are talking about today, because it is not an illegal matter, but a policy issued entirely by law. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: Offshore! Anita Heringes: How much is a Hungarian citizenship worth?]] Those who buy this bond...
u2015-02-20-124	I'm asking you to keep an eye on each other.
u2015-02-20-125	... they will pay for the possibility of settling in Hungary or in the European Union and having economic activity in Hungary or in the European Union, if you like, decorating and enriching our country, because there is a price. This bond also benefits those who are able to buy the bond and, of course, Hungary will benefit. If I look at the bond purchases so far, the Hungarian budget has so far increased by HUF 20 billion in terms of issuing the bonds. They also confuse terrorism and immigration. No one's talking about terrorism. We did not mention the word terrorism, but your representatives were sitting at the meeting of the National Security Committee, where experts - either counterintelligence, intelligence, counter-terrorism, or immigration and civil society officials - made it clear that Europe is not only dealing with the issue of the relationship between immigration and terrorism, but also at European level. If we only think of Paris, Hamburg or Copenhagen, then I think that you understand what this is about, but this is not the subject of today's parliamentary session. The reason we asked for this parliamentary debate day is because, in our opinion, in terms of the future, not in terms of the past time, the change in 2015 that will take place in Austria and Germany; the main question is whether Hungarian political parties are in favour of us here in Parliament, whether people are in favour of arresting those who come to us illegally from a third country while the foreign police procedure is ongoing, and if they do not comply with it - I will say the number once again, 500 out of 43 thousand, and if 42 500 out of 43 thousand are not in line, then they can be expelled from the country. That's why we're here today, and you're going to have to answer these questions, and we're going to have to answer them, and that's what we want people to answer. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-20-126	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for Congressman Gábor Bellozó, MSZP. You have the floor.
u2015-02-20-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. For the poor will always be with you, and whenever you want, you can do them good; but I will not always be with you. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Mark 14:7]] Ladies and gentlemen, The Republic of Hungary, I want to say, is a moderate representative of Hungary's Christian party representing civil values, Antal Rogán has announced a debate day with the following title: "Hungary does not need immigrants for a living. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Even from the title there is Christian understanding and patience, which has already been manifested several times since 47,000 forints, and later the Szerencségy Zrt. by Fidesz representatives, who have paid millions of dollars in their work, whose activities involve the unconstitutional persecution of the homeless, the slaving of the poor and condemning them to poverty. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] It is a pity that we do not have a fellow Member, Antal Rogán, present in this Chamber, and will not take part in the whole debate, because I would like to hold a mirror for him now, because it seems that these devices have worn out in his growing home every day, even though I think a few Gucci bags could be used to run on him in one of his suddenly increased villas. [[A voice from the benches of MSZP:]] It seems clear to Fidesz that in his performance called Shadow Boxes, the shadow opponents ran out, so now we need to create a new, defeatable opponent, who was found in our poorest, most persecuted fellows, who do not even want to come to Hungary or settle down here. As a Renaissance man, Antal Rogán, who is equally well informed on the issues of settlement and migration from primary school through the Trafiks, chases the poor who are not responsible for their fate by selling out Hungarian citizenship in an uncontrolled way for the reward of offshore knights - pardons, mates - billion. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Shame! It's a shame.]] My fellow Members who sell home, and the foreigners who are willing to pay Rogán friends for the usury, are welcome guests in the country of the tax collector government. Say, fellow Members, the refugee in Kosovo, who is being pulled off a train right now, how much can he legally buy Hungarian citizenship with your offshore buddies? How much is the Hungarian piece for you? [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Same amount! It's the same as the Chinese. István Szilárd Németh intervenes several times. The president's ringing the bell.]] And how much better are you than those smugglers who smuggle these poor people into the EU for 700-800 euros with the promise of living standards in the Western world? ! Have you ever asked yourself that question? And I sincerely ask you not to hide for me the protection of Hungarian citizens by damaging the Hungarian citizens by billions of items every day, protected and invented by Antal Rogán. The Hungarians are smarter - and I'll tell you something else - than their politicians who lie to themselves as Christians. Because there are Hungarians who do not consider themselves Christians from Sunday's closed hours, but simply think that way. [[A voice from the benches of Fidesz: in 2014!]] Dear fellow Members, Here, in this place, we should not be arguing about the expulsion of the unfortunate fugitives, but about the billions of settlement bonds, offshore Rogán agents. But we could debate the hundreds of thousands of Hungarian economic emigrants who, as a member of the new Hungarian exodus, are seeking their prosperity in a European country. There's something to talk about. The enlightened and wise rulers of this country knew that we should welcome those who arrived here warmly and learn all the new things they give us, because in a confident and stable country we are not only more with them, but also more with them, because those who come to a prosperous, forward-looking and healthy country want to become Hungarian as soon as possible. Of course, now's fugitives aren't stupid either. They don't want a miserable and feudalist country devastated by oligarchs! They have no intention of staying in Hungary. Dobrodošli na Madžarschem. [[Rush and applause in the pro-government benches: Bravo! Dr. Répássy Róbert: Let the Kosmetians vote for you! You're going for the Kosmet vote now!? It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Antal Rogán's grandparents were thus received in Hungary, and they could be very, very grateful that they were not received by a short-sighted, cynical and infinitely populist descendant of the Slovenian-born Rogan family coming to Hungary. [[13.50]] Mr. Rogán would expel himself and his own family from this country. In a specific way, I ask Antal Rogán to overcome humanity, Christianity, through the record or via television, and if all of this is not familiar to him, look at his family tree, because it will provide him with useful knowledge. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-02-20-128	Please try to listen to each other with respect, everyone gets a word. For example, Congressman Tuzson, who is the next speaker from the Fidesz faction. I'd like everyone, opposition and pro-government, to speak in such a way that you can hear the other one. Now, for example, let us listen to Congressman Tuzson Bence. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, After a slightly intense, eclectic and less understandable comment, allow me to go back to today's topic, which is ultimately about immigration, economic immigration and livelihood immigration. Hungary's population in the European Union is only 2 percent, 2 percent of the total population of the European Union, but 16 percent of asylum applications were submitted in Hungary on the basis of last year. This means that this is a particular burden for us Hungarians, for the Hungarian people and for the Hungarian authorities. Accordingly, we must take appropriate weight on this issue both in Hungary and in the European Union. With regard to border surveillance, Jobbik asked whether the Hungarian authorities were well protected by the Hungarian border. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Hungary's Schengen border is 1109 kilometers, and there are 4 thousand border officers in Hungary, and there are 1100 people on the 164 kilometer Serbian-Hungarian border. That means there are seven people each kilometer. Overall, the primary problem is not that they cross the border without being caught later, as 95 percent of people crossing the border illegally are caught, and the remaining 5 percent are usually caught during the depth check. So that's not the basic problem. The fundamental problem is that, according to EU legislation, anyone who enters Hungary walks to the first border police officer and says that he wants to apply for asylum, starts the procedure and can defend himself in the process 90 percent of the cases during the procedure by moving freely in the European Union. Of course, this would not be a problem if Hungary were not primarily a transit country, but due to our being a transit country, a large part of the people disappear during the procedure, and as long as it disappears during the procedure, it cannot be continued against it. Therefore, the procedure will be initiated, and then people in the European Union who are not known who they are and have not been dealt with, and no decision has been taken on the basis of which they can stay in the European Union in the long term. This is a particularly big problem. It is a big problem for everyone who is here in Hungary, but I would also like to highlight a specific aspect of this matter. In my constituency, Foton, there is also an institution that has the peculiarity of having children, children who arrive to the European Union alone without parental supervision. There's a lot of kids coming to this facility. 858 children should provide care to this institution, so many of them were in here, and among these, my fellow Members, 790 have disappeared. There are 68 children left in this facility. This is a mistake of European regulation! Children under the age of 18 disappear in the European Union by not allowing the supervision that these institutions should provide to take care of these children in this way. There are hundreds of children in the European Union who should go to school. But these children can't go to school, and they don't go to school anywhere, because if they applied to some authority somewhere, they would put them back in Hungary. We don't know what's going on with these kids. We don't even know if these kids are in a network of organ dealers or human traffickers. We do not know where they are, they are lost in the European Union. This is a particularly big problem, and this issue must also be approached in this respect, and this issue, too, must be dealt with separately. The European enabling regulation, which is essentially due to the fact that they did not measure these rules for transit countries, was not designed for them, but for the countries of destination, resulting in large numbers of people entering Hungary simply disappear during the procedure, because European legislation was based on the basic idea that, where these people arrive, they would seek asylum, and where they would seek asylum, they would receive asylum. The procedure will begin, but since these people do not want to stay here, they want to go further, they will go to Germany or Austria. The long-term consequence is, of course, that countries such as Germany and Austria today apply European rules liberally in a certain way. After all, Germany is not using it to catch these people and to send them back to the country of the European Union where the border has been crossed - namely Hungary - but to inform them to go to the authorities there, but before they go to the authorities, they are moving elsewhere, because of course they do not want to return to Hungary, they do not want the procedure to take place here against them, and the expulsion should end. So this is a specific problem. This is the issue that we need to resolve, and we need to establish appropriate rules. It is necessary to coordinate with the European Union, to initiate changes to the rules, but if the European Union refuses to amend its rules, then we Hungarians must act and create Hungarian rules, even if this means going against the European Union. We cannot wait for European bureaucracy to slow down! We must act and create our own Hungarian rules to protect Hungarian people! It is a very important issue - my fellow Members have repeatedly referred to this - that we do not confuse concepts with one another. We did not join the European Union by accident. We are a community of values, and we did not want to create an economic community for nothing. There are fundamental rights in this community. Fundamentality is that everyone in this community can go wherever they want to get a job wherever they want. This issue, the issue of the European Union, should not in any way be confused with issues outside the European Union and with those which are not thus part of the fundamental rights of the community. That is why I ask you not to confuse these issues with each other, but to deal with the real problem of hundreds, thousands of people crossing the Hungarian border and making an application to move freely throughout the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-130	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt is the next speaker, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-02-20-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Although several speakers have told me not to confuse the concepts, I feel that this has happened in the Parliament. When, for example, refugees in Kosovo are mentioned mainly by the MSZP, or Szabó Timea has been ringing all kinds of alarm bells here to stand up for the rights of raped women and kidnapped children, it should be added, even liberal rights organisations declare that the Kosovans are not refugees, they are not persecuted by anyone in their country. They may be called economic immigrants, but they're not legally refugees. Of course, as long as this is assessed - many speakers have said this to me - it may take months or even half a year to carry out various activities here, or even to move on to Western European countries. So it is necessary to distinguish between those who are actually fleeing something; this is 8-9 percent based on the Hungarian statistics of 2013-14, so less than one tenth of asylum seekers have earned refugee status by decision of the authorities, i.e. they were entitled to greater protection, while nine tenths or even more of those crossing the border have migrated for other reasons. So the liberal hysteria about who is being persecuted in his own country is in most cases not true. [[14.00]] It should also be said that although we are talking about the Hungarian Parliament's decision-making options, we are talking about a pan-European problem. And we can't stick our heads in the sand, because as a member of the Union, on the one hand, our hands are tied, the Hungarian Parliament is tied, on the other hand, it's not a good answer that we're not a country of destination, so whoever comes here will go on anyway. Even if he makes the request, then tries to go to Austria, he tries to go to Germany. However, we need to think much more European. And we think that although many people use Jobbikra for all kinds of signs, we believe that Europe's problem is a common problem in this area. And we didn't solve the problem if these people moved on to Austria, Germany. Because it may seem like a solution today, but in 10 to 20 years, we'll be able to get this problem back from the western direction again. So we need to think about common solutions. At the same time, we need to observe whether there are European responses to this problem. The questioning may have just happened, even misplaced, but the answers are completely lacking. If you have listened to the debate of the Commission's presidential candidates, in which immigration has also appeared as an important issue, and the management of illegal immigration, most candidates have replied that it is unacceptable to fight illegal immigration by legalising it. Do you understand? If, let's say, too many homicides in Hungary, then take the facts out of Btk. and it doesn't conflict with Btk. But his number won't change or even grow. Now, these are the answers the European Union has. I would very much like the Hungarian Government to take a more effective position when it comes to finding answers to these questions at European level. It is certain that these issues will come up, because Western countries are increasingly affected by the problem, and voters there will certainly force their own governments to do so, even if they did not want to deal with it, so that they will certainly take it out and find effective solutions. Liberal or liberal parties, or any side that ignores this, will disappear into the sink of Europe and will barely receive votes. We're quite certain of that. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]] Let us not forget, as my fellow Members Z. Carpathian said, that the rights of the majority are often put in the background. When we make laws and debate in the Hungarian Parliament, let us not forget the people who suffer from immigration and who experience the deterioration of public security that very many abuse refugee status. After all, as I have said, their nine-tenths are not going to get it, and they are only going to do it because, in the meantime, they are going to benefit from it, which means they are going to abuse these rights, and they have to give them some kind of answer. But the problem in Switzerland is so great that in a referendum there, too, they decided to limit it, and further steps are to be taken. There, by the way, there are 80,000 extra per year for immigration migration, so 80,000 people migrate to Switzerland every year, and the Swiss population can't stand it, the Swiss economy can't stand it, and people don't want the Switzerland that they know today to disappear completely in 20-30 years. I think that's understandable in every way for the Swiss people. By the way, if someone saw it on the Internet, it happened in Switzerland that they wanted to drop immigrants off at a rural reception centre, who were upset that they had to get out of the country, because they were thinking of a big city, a vibrant city, and they refused to get off the bus. If you're really chasing someone, I don't think your biggest problem is spending your days in the countryside or in a busy big city. Another interesting question is that while unemployment in Europe is high and youth is extremely high, the leaders of the European Union are talking about the need for immigration in order to fill jobs, as the demographic situation is tragic. We feel the contradiction in this. If there are jobs and labour needs in the European Union, why can't young workers fill it, who are largely unemployed in some countries up to 30-40 percent? On the other hand, if we are thinking about a 20-30-year perspective, perhaps we should change the demographic situation rather than think about how we should encourage these people outside Europe to settle here. It is an important basis for what we hold for Europe, what are the foundations of European existence. We consider Roman law, Greek thinking, and Christian morality to be the defining three elements that hold Europe together. And if we do not insist on doing so at any cost, Europe will not be what we have thought for Europe today and for a thousand years. It is also worth looking at the statistics that have also been published in the Hungarian press, for example, in Sweden, the 4 percent immigrant has committed 77% of the crimes. They're pretty serious numbers, though. And after the Swedes start to get to the point where this is unsustainable with their big liberal immigration policy, they propose such excellent ideas that then all countries accept immigrants entering Sweden. So the problem has to be divided. Isn't that an excellent solution? Nice liberal principles, everyone go there, and then, when they're fed up, they'll try to distribute these immigrants to the Eastern European region. I don't think that's a viable option. And by the end of the day, I just want to say that we're happy that Fidesz is facing the problem, and he's trying to do something about it. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we were discussing the transposition of European directives here in Parliament, in the case of immigration. In particular, legal aid and legal assistance for immigrants have been put on the agenda. At the time, I said that Parliament, on fidesz proposals, sometimes goes beyond what the European Union otherwise expects. I would remind you that we have said that the European Union has only required free legal assistance to immigrants in cases where they are in fact in need of financial and income conditions. This was granted by the Hungarian Parliament without any investigation, without an examination of the income and wealth, which we resented here in Parliament at the time. After all, if the European directive defines a limit from one to the other, the Hungarian Parliament should also try to act in a more stringent direction. I hope that if such problems come up in the future, the majority of Fidesz-KDNP will also have a slightly different opinion, because at the moment, free legal assistance is also due to these people, even if they have demonstrably large assets, despite the fact that they had to leave their own country. This is not the way for Hungarian citizens, so I very much hope that this flare from Fidesz-KDNP will be reflected in Parliamentary legislation in the future, whether in the transposition of EU directives or in the attempt to lead EU legislation on many issues in the direction that will guarantee Europe's future. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-132	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We would now have two-minute speeches, but no one has applied for such a speech. Accordingly, we will continue to work with pre-notified speeches. First, Mr Tamás László, representative of Fidesz, takes the floor. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! At times, this debate is very high, and I say this with some irony, which makes it easy for the arrows to miss, because the problem is down in the field. Perhaps we should look at this from the bottom not from a bird's perspective, but rather from the bottom. Therefore, my proposal is to tackle this whole problem in a simpler, more specific and more understandable way. I address this increasingly escalating issue in a variety of qualities, but it can be judged in many ways. We can look at the matter from a social, economic, budgetary, mental and police perspective, and there are apparently many other aspects of the issue that require an increasingly pan-European approach. First, I will address the subject as a member of the Committee on Budgets. It has already been said that if the current economic migration trend continues, it is expected that the supply of migrant families will cost HUF 1.5 billion per month; I repeat: monthly. This means that 16,000 apartments in New Palota can be renovated in a month on a very high level, i.e. 12,000 apartments can be renovated in 12 months. [[14.10]] Or another comparison: at least half of the 70 GPs in the district are in very bad shape. With monthly money, all clinics can be renovated at a high level, and everyone can find similar examples. I speak to him as a representative of Rákospalota, Pestújhely, Újpalota and partly of Újpest. In New Palota, about one third of the 40,000 inhabitants live in a single small pensioner, under very modest conditions. Another third is a single - parent family, a hard - to - live mother raising two or three children. When it comes to living migrants as families with children, we look at them with compassion and compassion, then, please, think of our own children, and even a little sooner. For whom the government has done and done a great deal. Let's just look at the many-spoken mass caterers, for example. The government has raised the norm to an extreme extent, and from September, full preschooling will further expand the system of children's meals. However, illegal migration is expanding unhindered, and even if we were to keep it at the level of 2014, this is already putting our national ambitions at risk. Our primary responsibility, I believe, is to help and support our own countrymen, which is our so-called state duty. Another number: over the past four years, the number of poor people in the country has decreased by 240 thousand, with very significant efforts. This significant result would be eliminated in a single year by the unhindered admission of livelihood migrants. For this reason, in our own well-conceived interests, on the basis of national interests, it is our duty not only to deal with the issue in principle but also strictly in practice. We need quick, strict, but also humane solutions for all of us. At the same time, the debate shows that we need to find a narrow path, sail through the cliffs. [[István Tukacs: Between Sküllas and Kharübdisek!]] That is why we can find this path together, taking into account national interests, and move on it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-02-20-134	Mr István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, is the next speaker.
u2015-02-20-135	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, After many people have been accused of washing everything together, as the wife accuses a husband who doesn't know how to wash, I would like to make clear that we are discussing a proposal that bears the title of immigration, and otherwise it is about refugees. So much for washing up. Added to it is another very kind sign: it is a, as if someone was going somewhere else because they didn't want a better, nicer or more pleasant life. Ladies and gentlemen, if I have to choose between the representatives of the government side to deal with this problem, either as a serious political matter or as a communication and voter maneuver due to their broken popularity, I vote for the latter. Just because it was surprisingly easy to get from the danger of terrorism to the refugees after the bloody story in Paris. So nothing else has happened, honourable Members, but they have found an enemy again. They find it easy, by the way, to add, because they find the patient who's called the pension cheater and the invalid, they find the poor guy, and they find the baker. Really, what about the bakers, Mr. Rogán? However, training an enemy image is not always practical. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have chosen the communication manoeuvre, let me warn you, there will be trouble. The lack of compassion you're dealing with is going to undermine the relationship between people and people at home. Because you're treating this case with no pity. Compassion is a human value, not just a Christian! I am saying this, fellow Members, because you are telling me to go somewhere else, go somewhere else, go back or close it first and then go back to where you came from, but by no means treat this whole matter with compassion, these poor bastards. Therefore, as a saboteur, here is what I must say to you, fellow Members, warning you of the danger. I see in the Zahony, selling a lady across the border, the product of poor Ukrainian shops. Because it's cheaper. I see the Ukrainian citizen who established a permanent residence, who is expecting a Hungarian pension. [[Dr. Attila Tilki's intervention.]] [[Dr. Attila Tilki's intervention.]] My fellow Member from the region is nodding. (Dr. Attila Tilki's intervention.) I see the man who works, crossing the border, in the farmer's land, no different from the young Hungarian who went to London. If they will be treated unforgivingly, where will this problem go, my fellow Members? I think we need to be a little bit more sensitive about this, and not just treating it as a vote. Second thought: I heard from two politicians today that the situation in Ukraine is critical and the so-called ceasefire treaty is fragile. If there is a problem there, and there is no need to be too keen of insight that it may be wrong for those who cannot live there to come to us, Hungarians or not, what will we tell them? Consider this aspect. Finally, you say that the one who went to London does nothing but work a little further away. Are you serious about this? Do you really think that the child of the mother who told me that I would never come back is just going to work away and not coming home to her family's place of birth? Do you really think this isn't emigration? Do you really think he didn't do it for economic reasons because he wants to live? I ask you to talk about this because it seems that one parliamentary debate day was not enough. Three doctors leave every day, not to mention everyone else who thinks they can live better there. That should therefore be the case, my fellow Members, rather than the fact that for propaganda reasons we are dealing with a problem with a police solution that can be solved in practice in a different way. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-136	Thank you very much. Here comes Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Data on immigration are shocking. On the first 45 days of the year, the number of asylum seekers in our country reached more than half of last year. More than 23,000 have applied to the Hungarian authorities so far. These figures show that we all have to deal with the issue with responsibility. Here in Parliament, in Hungarian society as a whole and in the European Union. Known fact: In 2014, unemployment in Hungary fell to the greatest extent, and Hungary had the biggest economic growth this year, so last year. This shows that Hungary will become a place where the prospects for the future are encouraging. Although we have significantly reduced unemployment, Hungary is not yet able to create a large number of jobs for illegally arriving immigrants. Hungary is not able to receive a large number of living immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, We all have a responsibility to the people here. We want everyone who lives here to work, to strengthen families, to broaden the social security system. The question is, and we count on the views of the parties, social organisations and, above all, of the people who live here, that, apart from the truly political refugees persecuted, I stress that outside the truly political refugees, our budget is able to provide the Hungarian people in the domestic social care system and economic immigrants living in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps few of you know what kind of social and health care is being provided to refugees in Hungary right now, even at this moment. [[14.20]] I would like to highlight some of these in my speech. A person recognised as a refugee or protected may conclude a contract of integration with the asylum authority. The refugee and the protected person shall be entitled to stay at a reception centre for a maximum of 60 days from the date of the final decision on recognition after 1 January 2014 and to receive benefits. The social integration of the refugee and his family is supported by the family support service. After the signing of the integration agreement, the immigrant is entitled to monthly integration support, which must be managed to achieve the objectives set out in the care plan. [[Erzsébet Schmuck will be replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] The amount of integration support that we provide to those who come to us today, immigrants, should not be subpoenaed into the walls of this House. The refugee is entitled to integration support under the decision of the asylum authority during the integration contract. The amount of aid shall be reduced every six months and shall differ in the case of a single person or a family member. Now, let's look at the numbers. First, let's look at single people. In the first half, you will receive HUF 90,000 per month, HUF 67 500 per month in the second half, HUF 45 thousand per month in the first half of the second year, and HUF 22 500 per month in the last and fourth semester. They're the single ones. Let's see how much support we provide to family members in the framework of the contract. In the case of family members, the adult receives 85 thousand forints per month in the first half of the month, 63 750 forints per month in the second half, 42 500 forints per month in the third half and 21 250 forints per month in the fourth half. After minors - we are talking about families - we support immigrants living here under a grant agreement with additional amounts. In the first half of the year, we provide HUF 25,000 per month, in the second half HUF 18 750 per month, in the first half of the second year HUF 12 500 per month, in the fourth semester HUF 6250 per month. Of course, this amount is maximized, for a family it should not exceed HUF 215 thousand per family. I stress that we Hungarians provide this benefit to immigrants from the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian taxpayers' money, regardless of whether someone comes to our country for economic reasons or actually asks for political asylum, there is no difference in this respect. We have already mentioned a certain part of health care, and I would like to add a few more points to that. What kind of health care do we provide for refugees? Persons arriving in Hungary will be subject to the provisions of the Health Act, which provides that all persons residing in Hungary must be free of charge, regardless of their legal status, until the person concerned has initiated the procedure and is not in a social security relationship. I stress that we are talking about people who may have just crossed the border five minutes ago. So what should be provided free of charge immediately? Among the epidemiological benefits, compulsory vaccination, screening of the epidemiological interest, compulsory medical examination, epidemiological isolation, transport of infectious patients, rescue, if the person needs immediate care, the benefits provided for in a separate legislation if necessary. The refugee is entitled to the same rights and obligations as the Hungarian citizens under different provisions of the law or government decree. The refugee seeking his or her recognition shall be entitled, if he or she is not in a social security status, to free of charge, to the medical services of general medical care, to the examinations and treatment of outpatients required in the event of urgent need, to the medical treatment, to the medical treatment required by the doctor, to the medicine, to the outpatient care and to the meals required for the treatment, to the outpatient care or to the hospital treatment, to the necessary examination and treatment provided by the doctor, to the other medical aids ordered by the doctor, to emergency dental care and dental treatment, to the care of the pregnant person, to the maternity care, to the maternity care, to the maternity care, and to the length of the medical care provided, because every person who is in the territory of Hungary requires and we provide for him or her. A person recognised as a refugee or a protected person who is not in a social security relationship shall be entitled to health care for a period of one year from the date on which the recognition decision becomes effective. After the end of one year, refugees with domesticities shall be subject to the general social security rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I could still list many numbers and forms of supply here, but I think that there will be enough data to show that if we accept and supply refugees arriving in Hungary in the current legal environment, within the current regulatory framework, without paying attention to the fact that we are dealing with economic immigrants or who are seeking political asylum, the tens of thousands of people who arrive here within a very short period of time, even hundreds of thousands, can create a situation that we cannot maintain this year's budget. The question is basically whether we should transfer from Hungarian taxpayers' money, from the forints of taxpayers living here, to immigrants arriving to us for a living, who - I would like to stress once again - arrive illegally in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, The positions that we have heard in today's debate, which have been of substance - there have been a great number of them - I would ask that we compare them responsibly and consider them impartially, regardless of party standing. Let us listen to all Hungarian people in the coming weeks, months, and then, please, let us establish a common national position in our immigration policy. It is important to address this issue quickly, without delay or delay, and to remedy it. I'm asking for your help in this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-138	Thank you very much. Mr President Novak, representative of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here.
u2015-02-20-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, As President of the National Assembly's Population Policy Sub-Committee, I would like to highlight the biggest problem of Hungary, the demographic disaster caused by immigrants, in addition to the economic and public security risks of immigration, which we have discussed here, because, for example, Dániel Z. Kárpát may not be our specialist politician today, but in general he has said several times about this issue, there are indeed times when more immigrants arrive in Hungary than the number of children are born. What is more, it is possible that this year - not only a few weeks, months, taken away, but it is possible that more alien immigrants will arrive in Hungary during the whole year of 2015 than the number of children born. [[14.30]] And then I didn't agree to how much of the people born here are Hungarian, because there are 13 minorities, nationalities, including the Gypsy, whose reproduction and the children to be born count against the not even one hundred thousand children a year, yet it seems that this year there may be less than the number of alien immigrants arriving in Hungary. This should also be pointed out, as our country's biggest problem is the demographic disaster. And these immigrants are free to arrive, although, in particular, they prefer to show those images in public service news, as it is true, the police are taking these immigrants into custody, but we know very well that, after some certification, they are free to go around the country after some paperwork, and they can still use very serious state aid to do so. All over the country, but perhaps the most advanced problem is the situation in the fifth largest village in Hungary, at the Asotthalom near the Serbian border. I am very sorry that Mayor László Toroczkai cannot be in our expert box right now, because as a result of László Kövér's small kingship he has banned him from the Hungarian Parliament, and therefore we cannot continue professional discussions with him here or in the Office House. Of course, we had the opportunity, but I had the opportunity to see the vast border area of Asotthalom, which is obviously not enough for one or two field guards, without an independent border guard. We could also quote a long time ago from Béla Hell's book The End Days of Europe, which ATV, one of its hosts, recently described as racist literature, but let me nevertheless seriously recommend to you what all parliamentary representatives of the previous term have received as a tribute to Béla Hell. From the Béla Hell, who is now a member of the Constitutional Court, and he has certainly highlighted the end days of Europe, the fact that Hungarians, for example, are halved from generation to generation. If we add that the population of Gypsy is doubled from generation to generation, then Hungary is in danger of a very serious demographic disaster. And to that comes the immigration that we have unfortunately not seen any action on. Nice words, yes, and, of course, you should also be glad that Fidesz is brave at least on the level of words, because we do not see, let us say, the same on the Gypsy issue on the part of Fidesz. Obviously because they have the right to vote against immigrants [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: They are Hungarian citizens!]] However, we would be pleased to see that they want to address the demographic problem, not only at words but also at the level of action. And don't point a finger at the European Union here, because Hungary can do what may be followed by a infringement procedure on the basis of its self-determination, but as in other cases it has not bothered you, I think that we should not point to the European Union, set up committees, hold debates, but act here. Then, if the European Union does not like it, then let us discuss it, but let us not drag this debate here for years, while every year the number of immigrants arriving in our country multiplies. If we really believe that Hungary's biggest problem is population loss, which unfortunately can only be read in Jobbik's programme, in the government programme, in the government programmes and even in party programmes, then we would not be able to wipe out our proposals for demographic change based on a lack of resources. While, as we have heard today, for example, an immigrant family can receive up to HUF 215 000 per family in Hungary, while in Hungary we see that they still do not get it - there have been serious progress, I do not dispute that, under the government of Fidesz, but they still do not receive the necessary and worthy subsidies. This is why it should be said that Hungary's biggest problem is the demographic disaster, which, unfortunately, is one of the most recent aspects of which is the immigration of aliens. Let us learn from the example of Kosovo and from the fact that we cannot allow a population with three or four growth potential, such as the Albanians in Kosovo, into our country. On the other hand, for the population of Hungary to grow, for demographic change, financial resources should also be transferred to our own budget, and that is why we should not point to the European Union when we have domestic opportunities. For example, a radical VAT reduction would have to be carried out in the articles needed to raise children, if you accepted the European Union's requirement, only 5%, but even the European Union would not oppose this. A State-supported home- and rental-building and purchase programme should also be established so that families can be set up at home instead of fleeing abroad, because this is indeed the issue that needs to be addressed, even on this debate day. The social card should be introduced so that money for family support and any other social expenditure does not translate into the needs or passions of parents or other aid workers that do not affect child rearing. Family tax relief should be extended to a number of other taxes, as we have seen processes in this regard. However, this is still far from enough, since lower-income workers are unable to make full use of the amounts mentioned in the news as facts, which, therefore, do not have access to. The fourth child should also increase the amount of the family tax allowance per child, even to a symbolic extent, but I think it would be justified to appreciate and promote the family model with four children. The second child benefit should be introduced in a number of areas, such as public transport, camping and mass catering, where today only large families are entitled to a benefit and the family support system should be followed up by inflation, as in the case of pension schemes, since the news generally refers to an increase in family support from year to year, this is not really the case. The amount of tax relief for many of the mentioned second children has not increased, but they talk about what they plan to do over many years, while, in real terms, the amount of child benefit, family allowance and family tax allowance you have mentioned so much is also decreasing year after year. The kindergarten care fee should be abolished and the number of institutions and their places should be increased for kindergartens. I also have to draw attention to this because the measures that you carry out in the name of family support, which may even seem positive at times, are extremely controversial, because they have indeed increased the number of cradle seats, but they have made it pay, by introducing the nursery care fee under the previous government, you, Fidesz, have made the nursery service pay. They seem to support the institution of marriage, but in the meantime, the partnership was raised in the Ptk. They restored the three-year-old child, but only with a work restriction, and we could list the contradictions that characterize your family policy. Therefore, I ask you to say what you have not been willing to say, or just missed, whether it is the Minister of State or not, but even at ministerial and prime minister level, I did not get a clear answer to the Minister with the title whether he agrees that the greatest problem of Hungarians is the loss of population. One of the biggest problems is that many things can be said, but we were brave enough to say in Jobbik's programme that this is Hungary's biggest problem. And since it is the end of Hungarianism here, there is also a threat of disappearance in the Carpathian Basin, allow me to conclude my speech with the ranks of Count Klebelsberg Kunó, Minister of Culture, and a 1926 speech that highlights the problem of population loss, as well as the fertility of Hungarian mothers as a great treasure. He put it this way: We know from our own history that, in Turkish times, the Great Plain, which is today the great and main resource of our national forces, has been destroyed by the Turks. When it's the 17th. At the end of the century, our authorities returned there, found swamps, deserts, barren areas, single-handed church towers, from which the temple collapsed, destroyed the village, where these lonely towers only declared destruction to posterity. And then the fertility of Hungarian mothers is the 18th. 1st century and 19th century In the first half of the century, he populated the destroyed area. Few people think that the verbs of the wilderness and death are common, and it means that there are dead places here. What was waste then is today full of Hungarian farms, whose fresh, healthy, morally healthy air we breathe the strength to rebuild the country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thus said and worked Count Klebelsberg Kuno for the salvation of the country, especially the countryside, for the countryside, or for the farmland, let us think of the launching of the farm schools he supported, the farmland, which is now most threatened by immigration at the southern ends, and not only by public security, but also by economic but also demographic and demographic policy. I therefore call for this aspect of immigration, the danger of immigration, to be considered. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.40]]
u2015-02-20-140	Now we have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP. Here.
u2015-02-20-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To the previous comment, we did not leave the room by accident, Mr President. The voice of the betterman MEP has begun a race-defense discussion that is simply unworthy of the walls of this House, even as it is. Ladies and gentlemen, Mónika Dunai gave a long list of the financial support that refugees receive, but he did not add that these are the refugees whose number, by the way, if we look at it, we are talking about 500 people last year, or 500 people. After that, Mónika Dunai talked for a long time about the fact that the refugees arriving here are entitled to medical care, including epidemiological care, or emergency life-saving treatment with our money. Let's continue with the thought, fellow Members of the Fidesz, shall we? ! Please tell me what the B-solution is. Do you think the B-solution is to let the children die on the border? Be kind, Mónika Dunai, to continue with the idea that you started here, because when we talk about incitement to hatred and hysteria, we talked about your comment exactly in its tone, though not in its content, my honourable fellow Member. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-142	Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, for a two-minute speech.
u2015-02-20-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to respond to Congressman Bellozó's sentences. I do not understand why if someone is talking about population policy, if one is talking about population loss, if one is talking about reproduction, then why is this racial theory, when these are indeed the problems of today's Hungary, and they must be spoken out in our opinion, and there must be an open exchange of views. So here, I feel that, once again, on the part of the MSZP, we are faced with nothing but to divert the word from the real problems to different histics. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-144	Congresswoman Mónika Dunai asked to speak for two minutes.
u2015-02-20-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If my fellow Member had paid more attention, he would have felt from my list that I was referring to the opposite. I said that we take care of everyone who lives here in Hungary or crosses our borders; that's what I was talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-20-146	Dear Parliament, We will return to the series of speeches that have been announced in advance. Mr László Pósán is a member of the next speaker, the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Many of the comments - András Schiffer or Timea Szabó, but Tamás Harangozó also said the same thing - revealed to me that from here, from the capital, this problem really seems to come up as a theoretical thing, but allow me, as a representative of Debrecen, where there is a very large refugee camp, to say a few words from the bottom. I'm just giving you some data to detect the extent of the problem. In January 2013, the number of people at the reception centre was 334, in June 1114. Only the extent of the increase shows that in July, the same magnitude, 1119, and then gradually declines, in December 517. On average, 589 people per month in 2014 and obviously there are differences in each month. The difference does not occur, honourable Members, because the migratory pressure would have diminished, but because several new stations had to be opened in the meantime. But at the same time, it is good to know what type of problems this has raised in everyday life. May 2013: In the contemporary press, there was plenty to read about, two Algerians robbed two girls in Debrecen. Since then, the case has already been convicted by a court, where one of the defendants has been sentenced to 16 years. I'm just saying, the severity of the verdict shows that the crime that happened at that time didn't belong to the category to be dropped. Also in 2013, in June, near the reception centre, refugees fought at a nightclub, and at the end of June there was a mass struggle in the refugee camp, with about 600 policemen to stop it. By the way, imagine the type of mobilization, money, logistics and much more, so I think it is likely that these police forces could have been used at that moment in a number of other places. 160 people in the refugee camp are taking care of order to this day, and even then we didn't even talk about the fact that, as a result of free transport, entrepreneurs in Debrecen often come out of contact with them as a victim on a daily basis. In particular, in Debrecen, the university learns about 3,500 foreign students who, of course, pay for the training, they take part in English courses. Many times, refugees in refugee camps pretend to be students, ordering a taxi or a pizza in this way, or sit in any nightclub, and then, taking advantage of the slightest carelessness, simply leave, they don't pay, so there are forintable damages in everyday life. On the basis of all this, if someone says that there is a particular xenophobic rise and a new image of the enemy here, then I think that they do not realize that people who, on the other hand, are injured in such a situation, will not be an ideological issue for those who, on the other hand, will be an ideological issue, but rather simply a daily practical experience, so they are completely different to the question. So I would also suggest to the honourable socialist Members that they call on their representative in Debrecen, the socialists in Debrecen, to stand before the people there, and say that please, this is right, let the refugees come in peace, and suffer all that comes with it, because that is right. Please do this. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: That is not what we were talking about. Ágnes Kunhalmi: How to confront each other!]] I somehow didn't see the Socialists of Debrecen so enthusiastically waving a flag for that purpose. It may be easy to do so here in Budapest, but that is not the case here. Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite simply a nonsense situation that has already been raised by several people, and it is right that the fact of the prohibited border crossing, which is otherwise a criminal category, is being mixed up very often with the problem of legal change of residence; these are two separate cases. Illegal border crossings are also a category that can be interpreted as a criminal offence, regardless of who does it. The question must indeed be settled after the person has been persecuted for political reasons and is therefore entitled to asylum, protection or for some other reason. I would just like to mention one example: so often, especially on the left, to quote the United States of America as a model and example to follow. Ladies and gentlemen, The U.S.-Mexico border is so tight on border controls, not in one case with wire fences, and I don't know what else there is, that the chances of illegal border crossings are minimal and, of course, punished there. He's being punished there too! If you have such a serious objection to the intention of taking more decisive action against the fact of illegal border crossing, please also signal this to the American Ambassador. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-20-148	Member László Kiss, member of the MSZP fraction, is the next speaker. Here.
u2015-02-20-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I still refuse to apologize, and I do not encourage my constituents to apologize to everyone because they are members of a tolerant community in Obuda, who believe that the most painful questions in this country are not the fake trouble they bring here, but the lack of poverty, corruption and security. [[14.50]] I refuse to apologize for that. And I don't think, by the way, that it's not normal for someone who doesn't identify with these fake propagandas that you're constantly putting in front of us and expose the population to national insults, fake questions, fake research. I think the normal person who condemns this should not be the one who condemns it, but the one who brings more and more lies to us, just like this one. From my own past, if I may, I recall some stories about illegal border crossings. I was a child when my class received two children who crossed the border illegally, who fled from Ceauşescu's dictatorship, and both of them enjoyed practically the full respect of the state at that time, quite rightly. In fact, the two children, my two classmates, found great love among us, because we felt that it was good for the Hungarian community to support these people, it is good that they are here, we help them in everything we can. I was older in high school when young people fleeing from the hell of the South Slavic War came to my high school class. They were also illegal border crossings, as the Serbian government... [[Interview from Jobbik: They were Hungarians. Hungarians.]] - That's right, they were Hungarian people, of course -... they didn't support these Hungarian people who fled their homes just because they didn't want to be a victim of the hell of war. According to your concept, all three families we are talking about are illegal border crossings, and, in my opinion, Hungarian people who are home-found and looking for them, who could count on the support of the country. I am afraid that in the Ukrainian disaster, which is becoming more and more serious, the situation will be similar because of your irresponsible incitement, our citizens, those Hungarian people in Transcarpathia who flee to Hungary from the horrors of the Ukrainian war, or even because of the difficulty of being Ukrainian, are trying to find refuge here in Hungary because of the collapse of the state. I ask you to stop this irresponsible behavior. And if KDNP didn't do it, let me say a few words. In the summer of 2014, Pope Francis sent a message to all Christians, all Catholics, on how to deal with this issue:. We are witnessing a truly wide-ranging migration in our time; many leave their place of origin, undertake risky trips, carry their hopes, fears, and luggage full of their desires. However, this wandering movement often causes distrust and hostility, even in the Christian community. These suspicions and prejudices conflict with the Bible's command to receive a needy stranger with respect and compassionate love. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-02-20-150	Mr Zoltán Tessely, representative of Fidesz, is the next speaker. Here.
u2015-02-20-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The small town of 12,000 inhabitants, whose mayor I have been for six years, and which is now the centre of my constituency, is rightly a small town of Bicske with a long history and even greater heart. Yes, with great heart, since the Bicskeans are the best example of inclusion. The inhabitants of Bicske have lived in harmony with the Gypsy minority for 275 years. Over the past 85 years, thousands of difficult - fate children from all over the country have been changed between the protective walls of the children's home. Our nursing and care center has helped hundreds of elderly people in our county, and for more than 25 years we have been providing shelter for foreign refugees arriving in our country in Bicsk. Yes, you can see from all of this: it has an important role in the character of the people who live here, and it has an important role to play with the arrivals in peace, side by side, silently, but never indifferent to the other's fate. Rather, Bicsken can be said, you know, only with tolerance, tranquility, understanding, love and care, i.e. with the heart can only respond to the challenges caused by these varied, difficult situations of life. Whether it is white or coloured, Muslim, Catholic or Baptist, Roma, Hungarian or African, orphan or abandoned, if he followed the rules of living together, he could always find a home and shelter in Bicsk. So that's our city, Bicske, and that's what people in it are like. It's a small town with a long past and a bigger heart. Dear fellow Members, This great heart begins to question the recent events of the refugee camp, its bitter new experiences, and the sense of justice of the people here calls for help. I know that the experiences of the past have taught the people here - because they had the opportunity to experience it themselves - that it is a good thing to help themselves, but there is also a understandable reason why it breaks it down, why it destroys the trust built up one step at a time in a quarter of a century. The nightmare began in mid-2013. The system, built with good professionalism over the decades, exploded when, under pressure from the European Union, asylum seekers were prohibited from being detained by foreign police and the shelters were stopped. That's when he flooded our city. In contrast to the 200 eligible refugees in the budget of the Bicske reception centre in the town of 12 thousand people, the number of people in the camp increased to the peak by June 2013 to 753. This placed a huge, almost unbearable burden on both the camp workers and the city's population. Within the camp, this meant people everywhere, crowded rooms, beds, mattresses in the corridors, in the sports hall, and finally in the tent camp. Yeah, military tent forest on the edge of town. In order to deal with emerging situations within the camp, it was that there were 14 civil servants within the institution to provide 750 refugees. Because of the unbearable workload, it is understandable that many have abandoned their profession for decades. The situation in the city can be described as devastated, trashy public areas, broken benches, crushed candelabers, crushed flower gardens and fences, pickled kitchen gardens, deteriorating sense of security, their work, their children's population, acne atmosphere. To the end, the municipality is seeking to remedy the situation, not attack, and is not pouring oil on the fire, but is looking for solutions, it is also doing its best, it is strengthening the vigilante, it is building a camera monitoring network, it is paying particular attention to the cleanliness of public areas, it is helping to develop the Wi-Fi network within the camp, and it is also involved in the expansion of the machine park of the camp's computer rooms. And the Home Office will give you all the help you need. In addition to significant targeted financial support during the summer, 20 members of the Alert Police will help restore public safety. We can bring in a significant number of public workers to clean up our public areas. The expansion of our camera monitoring network is also supported by a tender, and our proposals to change the legislative environment will be considered in all cases.By the beginning of 2014, it seemed that our joint efforts could also help to normalise the situation. Unfortunately, it didn't, because in the last few months, everything started all over again. [[15.00]] In our view, the asylum seekers have recently changed. It seems to us that we find that most of all they come to us to support them. Most of them are not cooperative at all, most do not want to do anything to improve their own circumstances, but at the same time demand. They demand, and they usually do this in a very bad style, causing fear and distaste for all good - feeling people. There have always been other hygiene habits, but there is a serious risk of infection, abuse of forbidden pleasure articles and prostitution were not typical; unfortunately, it is now. Refugees have always had material desires, but this was rarely thought to be acquired by stealing others' belongings. Unfortunately, that's not true anymore. There have always been applicants who were hard to believe, persecuted, but for Hungarian people living under average financial conditions, it is not realistic to spend HUF 4,500 a day on public money on chasers who use smartphones and tablets that often seem unattainable. In recent years, there have been anti-social cases of other cultural roots, but brutality, violence, aggressive demands have never been the case until now; unfortunately, they are now. The sense of justice of the people of Bicske calls for help. We demand that asylum be once again about the really persecuted, the real refugees, their help. We demand, yes, that we be able to help those in need again with a good heart and to relive that doing good is good. I sincerely hope that the answers to the questions of the national consultation concerning immigration can equip the government of Hungary with enough ammunition to provide a reassuring solution to the dangerous situation that has arisen. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-20-152	Thank you very much. Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here.
u2015-02-20-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the spirit of the ideas of the Holy Crown, which have been constantly attacked by the extreme liberals which tend to pervert St. Stephen's warnings, there have been hundreds of charisians, flutes, beesengers, jasiks and many other nationalities here in Hungary. By the way, there may have been a reverend, so the second man after the king is Dénes Tomaj, of besenyő origin, who then gave his life in the battle of Muhi, fighting against Batu Khan for this country. This is where the Kuns installed in the middle of the Great Plain became proud Hungarian patriots. ANNEX II This is where Europe's first territorial autonomy for Saxons settled in the South Transylvania was created, and while the blind fanaticism of the night of St. Bartholomew sat elsewhere, here in Torda, there was a decision on religious freedom, and here, in the country of the Holy Crown, it was also possible that the Zrinites were respected as one by two nations at the same time. Indeed, here in Hungary, a nationality, the glorious Rusin of Transcarpathia, could become the most powerful people in our war of freedom, and they could be called II. To the most loyal people of Prince Ferenc Rákóczi, the Gens fidelissima. We know it's the 18th. In the 18th century, the Shvabs installed in the South Country joined with great diligence in the reconstruction of a new country for them after the Turkish occupation. We also know that in vain he tried to use them for the Germanization purposes of the Viennese Court, as the excellent Hungarian writer Ferenc Herczeg wrote in his Seven Swabians, our Germans defended the Hungarian country with great loyalty, say, in 1848-49. It is also a model of perseverance, as my narrower Patria, Somogyország has built up the village of Sulok, which is installed on the land of nine golden crowns per cadastral moon. In Hungary, we had the unimaginable, unparalleled miracle that was embodied in the martyr generals executed in Arad, where Austrian, German, Swabian, Croatian, Serbian, Armenian and Hungarian joined together for a common cause, fighting for the flowering of our country. This is where Sopron and most of the surrounding settlements' ethnic population declared their residence in Hungary and made Sopron a city of fivitas fidelissim, a city of loyalty. Yes, let's be proud of it, we had the thing that during World War II, the unfortunate refugees of Poland who had been swept off the map in the world had a unique opportunity to open a high school in Balatonboglár. The line could still be continued both pro and versus, as we cannot hide the fate of the indigenous Hungarians in many places after Trianon in the Carpathian Basin, and after Trianon and Trianon, how the Serbs or Romanians, who had previously found refuge here, have taken refuge here. The positive examples, if you like, the stories of immigrants and their descendants of your age, these people never thought that they would find themselves in the life of a country that had no history before them, without Hungary having its own history and tradition before they arrived. They never thought that people who were already here should adapt to them. Before starting a family tree research here, let's say, the left, I would say that this is what my fatherly ancestors thought, who came from Tirol to Somogy, a long time ago, did not think that they would adapt to them, on the contrary, they wanted to be integrated and to become part of the nation. They did not demand it, but as the last words of the German-born General Lajos Aulich, Martyr of Arad, prove, I served and served, I have always served my beloved Hungarian people and my country. The multi-kultian catatonic and mass immigration, which was invented by these thinkers called the polkolct, and not by those who decided to kill Europe in the beautiful new world, has not followed this tradition. It is enough that I refer only to Robert Putnam, one of the world's most well-known political science professors at Harvard University, and his research certainly shook the multicultural dogmas thoroughly. In the voluntary ghettos of aliens who are incompetent of European standards, which are invading the old continent, to which Europeans who support them, as a hostile tribal area, are not advised, parallel societies are built, where frustration is the result of aggression, whose expendation is only a matter of time. Jobbik, on the other hand, does not ask for this vision, even if the present Seton Watsons and Wichkam Steeds of the anti-Hungarian anti-Hungarian anti-Hungarian campaign of a good century ago will certainly fill the ether with their mantras that there is no such extremist, exclusional people or party in Europe or perhaps in the world as Hungarian or Jobbik. We are used to it, and we also know why they are doing this, because we do not want to be pannon Palestinians in our own homeland, or natives trapped in bantustans, or if we look at even worse scenarios and scenarios, then we do not want to be prey animals. In a globalised world, we can almost speak of modern migration. Of course, we have humanitarian obligations, but we cannot bear the cross between the misery of immigrants who do not want to be integrated or unable to. [[15.10]] It is solved by the great powers exploiting the countries of periphery, inciting civil wars, and by the multinational corporations that are taking huge profits from it. It is no exaggeration to say, in connection with the speech of my fellow Member, Mr President Novak, that the most important challenge in Hungary is indeed a shocking population loss, rapid ageing and ethnic restructuring, the social consequences of which are completely incomprehensible to the politically correct ones acting like good ostriches; the distribution systems will become unsustainable and Hungarian society will face a huge crisis sooner or later. To add to all these problems, even with such mass immigration, I think it would be a historical sin for future generations, for our children. To offer immigration to these challenges, i.e. as a cure for population loss, is an infinite folly and historical irresponsible thing, but instead I am speaking to my fellow members of government: indeed, an economic policy should be pursued that would draw home hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians working with honour outside, and would encourage young people who remain here to dare to take on children. And to my fellow Members on the left, I can only tell you that it is time, let's say, for the former Speaker, that his article entitled "The Beautiful Stranger" should be wrinkled nicely and thrown into the paper basket to which it belongs. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-154	Member Gyula Vantara, the representative of Fidesz, has the floor, but first I have to give the floor in order of business, because Mr János Latorcai, Member of the KDNP Group, Vice-President of the Parliament, has applied in order of business. You have the floor first.
u2015-02-20-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. My point of order is a technical proposal: from the time frame of the KDNP Group [[Foreman Novak: Thank you very much.]] He'll give Fidesz 12 minutes. [[Yeah, I thought so. Defiance.]]
u2015-02-20-156	Clearly, clearly, even if some doubted earlier, they could now learn what the intention was. Well, then, Congressman Vantara, up to the floor. Your turn, please.
u2015-02-20-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to join you in the speech by Congresswoman Mónika Dunai - and I am very sorry that Congressman Bellozó is not here - by adding a comment from the bottom-up too, and extending and joining what has been said. All you need to know is that this station, this central station, is in Békéscsaba. Békéscsaba is known - it is difficult for me, but the settlement in the Klebelsberg section, which was read by my better fellow Member, which died out in the Turkish period and was then resettled, is inhabited by many nationalities - over the centuries there has been an inclusive environment that has created a friend for aliens who arrive here, other religious people, and those who have been displaced and resettled have always found a home. Joining, therefore, with what my colleague from the Danube said, we are officially talking about the asylum-guarded reception centre of the Immigration and Nationality Office, which includes the majority of the stations that have already been mentioned, from Bicske onwards, through Debrecen. Here, too, the name shows that it is a closed and secure institution, so this is the category where immigrants are kept without a passport or for other reasons. This was perhaps one of the most sensitive points of today's debate about dealing with them. Most of the 185 seats are occupied, and three meals are served at the station, two of which are hot meals, 24-hour health care, social workers care for children, teachers, kindergarten teachers help their work and the daily lives of immigrants. In addition, there are free internet usage, a variety of conditioning rooms, sports halls, TV rooms and cultural programs. This shows that at the station, in the centre, the people who are admitted are treated in excess of EU standards, which are also supported by regular investigations by the D.A.'s supervisory authority. To sum up, we can therefore say that the news about the quality of supply is not true, and here we hear this from the opposition's side several times. We can also say that, above all, the Hungarian State provides for this area of immigrants, and it has been said several times today that in Hungary, in relation to the expected measures in the summer of the countries concerned - Austria, Germany - there is a need to seek a solution that can only be achieved through cooperation, cooperation and cooperation between political actors, but, above all, I believe that the proposal for a solution to wide-ranging consultation is taking into accountitis, not on the basis of momentary or longer-term Sanda policy objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-158	Thank you very much. Mr László Szakács, from the group of the MSZP, has the floor.
u2015-02-20-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Today's wavy-quality debate, I think I've been thinking about whether it's us socialists who are running across the Mexican border or smuggling people or fideses who are running after immigrants who don't pay their pizza in Debrecen. This is a real problem somewhere, there is no problem at all; you want to make it a problem that can be perceived in any way by today's debate. There's nothing wrong with a ruling party wanting to focus on political life, but I think they've crossed a line now. They crossed the border because they had done so, because not so long ago we had the public debt in shining blood before us, and we had a modest success in these matters, but the political discourse was the subject of the ruling party. Now, the reason you've crossed a line is because what you're doing now has a face, a name, a child, a family. I'm not saying they're all well-meaning, neither of us can decide. This is a completely unprofessional debate. There are specialised bodies that could have proposed, suggested, how to deal with the flood of refugees that we expect, see, experience, bring it to us, we can discuss, we can argue about. Without a profession, a political debate day can be held, where it can be hysterized, the other can be scolded, and otherwise a public address can be given, because it doesn't make sense because we're talking about flesh and blood people. It started when after the assassination in Paris... and make no mistake before they accuse me of how liberal I am. No, if someone expresses their opinion, it should not be shot to death, terrorism should be persecuted - our prime minister goes to Paris, and we think that if he disappoints us, he will go there with honor, he will stand up for the rights and freedoms that he has known even better than he did today for 25 years. Instead, we already have the communication spell that from now on, immigrants will be standing in front of us in shields, we will fight against them, and the Prime Minister will say that we do not want to see a significant minority with different cultural qualities and backgrounds between us. I tell you quietly, they are also protected by Hungarian law, currently thirteen. How can the Prime Minister say that? ! If we also add what Gábor Staudt said, we can also agree in part that there are European values, there are European values. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Don't try to hurt me.]] I don't mean any harm. [[Interjection: We'll investigate!]] There is Roman law, there is Catholic values, but there is another one that belongs to Europe's values in the XV-XVI. Since the first century, it's called humanism. [[15.20]] Those who caused hysteria against humans in Europe were not tolerated. Bring me a presentation, tell me how to do it next, what to do with the rules and where to tighten it up, and then we can make a decision. And they stop hystericalisation because it seems that you have only measured one thing now, that prejudice is paying better in politics in Hungary today. That's why they're doing all day. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-20-160	Mr Mihály Balla is the next speaker from the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2015-02-20-161	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, I was a little surprised to hear the previous speech. I would like to point out in my speech that what we are here for today is not only a huge challenge for Hungary but also for Europe, because the refugee flood that is targeting Germany, Austria and, where appropriate, Hungary is also a European problem. But in the same way, we could talk to the Italians about the same thing or the French, or we could talk to our fellow Members from Spain about the problem of migration for them. As a Member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of Parliament, I know that the issue of migration and migration within Europe are often raised in the negotiations. In fact, we are talking about the increase in illegal immigration. It may be possible to express strict thoughts about this, as Mr Szakács did, but the facts are also quite strict, as the number of illegal border crossing data has increased nearly 800 times in the last year and the number of cases involved compared to 2010-11-12. And it doesn't just affect us. If we look at a European map of smuggling or migration, we can see - if we start from Greece or Turkey - that, according to unofficial data in Greece of 11 million people, they are trying to do something with about one and a half million refugees. In addition, it is natural that the directions where refugees move towards the centre of Europe are the routes where they can do so, where they are given the opportunity to cross different countries, even under organised criminal frameworks, and they will reach Hungary and through Hungary Austria and Germany. We know that this is a growing challenge in Germany as well. They have already indicated in several provinces that they are unable to hold illegally arriving refugees, I stress, we are talking about refugees from beyond the Schengen borders, and they are planning to tighten the rules. Since 1 January 2014, the Dublin Regulation confirms that refugees from different countries can be returned to the same location. In English, if such a decision is made in Germany or Austria, then refugees can return to Hungary in the order of hundreds of thousands, those who cannot prove that they are seeking asylum for political reasons or for the protection of their lives and are therefore expelled from the country. This means that this problem will accumulate in Hungary. That is why it is important to think about a system of rules that will tighten up, and in the next period, perhaps it will give us the opportunity to form unity in this way, to consult the Hungarian people, and to take a stand in front of them that we want to ensure that this does not fall back to Hungary in a cumulative way. It is not the problem that my fellow Members have raised, i.e. the problem is not the humanitarian approach. In Balassagyarmat, where I am a Member, there is a community hostel where 60 to 100 people - when - live people who have applied for refugee status. In many cases, the authorities cannot even determine where these people came from and what nationality they are. There's only one janitor in the community center, and everyone can walk in and out. These people are being treated there. There are mainly families and families with children, but there are also adults who are not related to families. And if any minor incident, violation, or serious crime occurs or is suspected to occur in Balassagyarmat, then the anger is annoyed, precisely because more than once it can be seen that, although these people receive help, receive care, protection, there are many cases in which the police have to take action, and criminal proceedings have to be initiated. The problem is essentially not the humanitarian approach. The problem is the impact on local public security, the impact on the public security of the settlements of immigrants who have gone somewhere they could not reach and are being expelled. The things that this can cause, we'll leave it to the professionals. But if we look at European processes, we see that this is a serious problem in more and more countries, including Hungary, because after Italy, the second most illegal border crossings are made in Hungary, which in many cases happens by crossing the border and literally surrendering themselves to police officers and border guards. At the same time, they are a problem that the asylum authority or the Immigration Office, which takes matters, must decide. Let's just think that the cases have multiplied by eight hundred. Meanwhile, here I hear an assessment that the time taken to deal with matters should be reduced and that the procedure should be provided as quickly as possible. That's true, too. However, I think so, but we also believe within the Fidesz fraction that these rules need to be changed, where appropriate, by starting the European way of thinking about tightening the rules, and perhaps we can achieve the result that we can restore balance. Because today, the refugee situation in Europe is basically about the imbalance between the European Community and the European Community three or four years ago. This balance has been disrupted by the huge refugee flood that has arrived in Europe over the past one-and-a-half years, in many cases directly to Central Europe through Hungary or, where appropriate, for a Hungarian purpose. So when we are here and we are talking about these matters, what we need to do is to clarify, above all, whether we can unite for a common objective that there are rules on illegal immigration, which must be tightened up, which must be tightened up even in European matters, possibly debating certain positions within the European community. This debate needs to be held, but it requires support in a country. This is what the national consultation, which has been initiated by several people, is for this to go through, and we are asking for the government's support. But it's all about restoring a manageable balance that characterized this country three to four or five years ago. By the way, about the accommodation in Balassagyarmat, it may even be worth telling you that it was still the decision of 2009, the decision of the then government to create that accommodation. I believe that this was a good decision from a certain humanitarian point of view, but not necessarily in many respects, which could affect public safety or heightened anger in Balassagyarmat. For example, it would be helpful to follow a stricter timetable in certain procedures, in certain cases, through different rules and procedures. Thank you very much for your attention. I urge my fellow Members present to support the effort to keep this matter on the agenda. Otherwise, it is not about creating an enemy image now, it is not about Hungary or us, as representatives, not about performing any humanitarian task, but about the fact that there are certain frameworks and rules that need to be tightened up because there has been a balance between Europe, Central Europe and Hungary three or four years ago. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-162	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary of the Parliament from the Jobbik Group, is the next speaker. Here. [[15.30]]
u2015-02-20-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Here in the last few hours, the pro-government representatives have described with extremely colourful words and images the otherwise truly terrible situation that the current refugee situation is in Hungary today. This is all the more interesting, because the pro-government representatives spoke less about what are the basic documents that define Hungary's policy in this respect. As an introduction, I would like to talk to you about one of these basic documents. This is 1698/2013. a government decision, and this is the migration strategy for Hungary today. I'm gonna say this one more time: 1698/2013. - a government decision was adopted by the Hungarian government in October 2013; that is, just 16 months ago, when it began to become apparent to all sober Hungarian citizens that significant changes were needed here in the area of asylum. So the extremely liberal policy that the European Union requires of us will no longer be viable. However, once again, your government adopted a loose migration strategy 16 months ago, which I would like to discuss briefly. I would like to highlight a sentence or two from this, if it becomes hair-scarring, I apologize, which is included in the document. For example, the basic principles of the strategy are right here. The first principle that this document explains is that Hungary supports all forms of migration. Hungary supports all forms of migration. The second is based on another very important document, the so-called foreign policy strategy, and it refers to it and takes over sentences from it, for example: in addition to domestic population loss, migration can also promote growth, redistribution and the sustainability of pensions. Yes, this is President Novák and my fellow Member, Balázs Ander, talking about one of the fate issues of the Hungarian nation, the tragedy that population loss and demographic disaster mean for us. But you seem to think, on the basis of this migration strategy, with migration, with refugees, of solving the not small problem, which is today, for example, the sustainability of pensions in Hungary, or the loss of population. But I will go on: the third point, which I think is interesting, and it is worth talking about, is a SWOT analysis, including the possibilities of making Hungary an attractive destination, i.e. its destination country. This is therefore included in this document. After that, based on this document, the Ministry of Interior sent out a call to all Hungarian municipalities about three months ago, yes, you, Mr Secretary of State, to offer 5 thousand square meters of real estate, built-in and public works for the purpose of creating an alien property. So all 3,200 municipalities have been put under government pressure to offer very important properties for the establishment of refugee camps, of course, for free and obviously. This happened after the fact that, until December 2014, the number of immigrants in Hungary was increasing not linearly, but exponentially. After that, once again, all Hungarian settlements would have had the unheard of responsibility to create a settlement with 150 people per object. We know that, unfortunately, several municipalities have taken advantage of this opportunity. For example, the municipality of Újfehértó offers such a huge area, or Kunszentmárton also offered such an area. Every time we know this, we are trying to do something about it with a local referendum initiative, because we seriously believe that this asylum policy in Hungary is unsustainable, as opposed to the government and the prominent representatives of the government present. Because we believe that the responsibility of such a refugee camp cannot be pinned on our settlements. They've had enough trouble, thanks to you, anyway. You can't put a burden like that out there anymore. However, it seems that we are alone in this regard, because it is likely that every local government where this came up was supported by the Fideszes that there should be a refugee camp in that settlement. You obviously didn't go against your own government. Here we have heard from so many pro-government representatives, such as Zoltán Tessely, Mr Pósán or Mihály Balla, about the rate of the increase in the number of crimes in and around the settlements where a refugee camp was established. You can't wash yourself that the refugee camp in Balassagyarmat wasn't put there at your time, but as a result of an earlier, let's say, socialist decision. But it is clear that you would have initiated the establishment of refugee camps in every Hungarian settlement. And by the way, they wrapped this up in the kind of lying and deceitful communication that you and these refugee camps want to create jobs in those settlements. Thank God there were relatively few settlements that took this stupid propaganda seriously. What kind of jobs can a refugee camp basically create? I'm sure it doesn't produce jobs that this country really needs, but let's just say, crime scene investigators will definitely need more in or around the settlement where a refugee camp is going to take place. Now, let's get back to the strategy that you have created, Mr. Secretary of State. Tell me now that this proposal expired after 15 January, how many municipalities have signed up to set up a refugee camp in their own settlement, filled with your fantastic migration strategy! So how many municipalities were there? Two. Come on, have they been informed since about two weeks after the 15th that Hungary's Prime Minister said that Hungary's door should be locked, so that the wind has changed a little bit, and do you not think that in fact there should be a refugee camp in every Hungarian settlement? Come on, tell me when you want to withdraw this migration strategy. Here, Mónika Dunai told us that we are here, we are here on this day of debate, so that we can jointly develop the migration policy of the Hungarian government, Hungary as a whole. Okay, okay, let's do this. In order to take you seriously, please take a moment at the next government meeting to withdraw this migration strategy. Then you could actually believe that what is going on here is not a cheap charade, but they really mean that Hungary needs a different migration policy today. Until then, it's just a charade. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-164	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Two-minute speech, Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-02-20-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To remain on the specific figures, I would like to present you with a Eurobarometer survey, which says that 57 percent of the citizens of the European Union do not want Europe or its own country to be subject to further immigration. 57 percent! By the way, this is 67 percent for Hungary. So two thirds of the Hungarian population do not want large numbers of immigrants arriving in the country. By the way, before it can be said that the Hungarian population would be xenophobic and would have all kinds of prejudice against other ethnic groups, that these figures are much smaller, based on the Eurobarometer, in relation to nations with freedom of movement within Europe. So the people of the European Union know perfectly well what the difference is between coming from within the European Union and taking a job in their country or perhaps from outside the EU. [[15.40]] And indeed, although it may be possible to counter this, the United States may be a good example, they have closed the borders in Mexico, because they know that if they opened up and said that whoever wants to come would be a burden even to the strongest economy in the world, which would be disrupted and completely disrupted by the current forces. It must be added, and when we are talking about Europe's Christian roots, we also understand that if we opened up borders for anyone who wants to come to Europe, who wants to come to Europe in the hope of a better life, in the hope of a higher salary, then we really shouldn't need a few decades or even more, and we couldn't talk about a Christian Europe, Europe would cease to be what it is right now. By the way, very interesting articles have appeared in connection with Kosovo's immigration these days on the Internet, read it, not even the poorest come from Kosovo, and not even those who are often the most vulnerable, but who are actually not satisfied with their own standard of living there, selling everything and coming. So it's demagogy we've heard from the liberal side. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-166	There are no more candidates for two minutes of speeches, and we will therefore return to the comments announced in advance. Congressman Ákos Kara, from the Fidesz fraction.
u2015-02-20-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On the other hand, I would like to approach the subject briefly. On the side of solidarity, I have to say that in recent years Hungary, but my constituency, Győr and the surrounding settlements have also set a good example of the fact that Hungarian people can be in solidarity in the case of immigration and asylum and solidarity in Hungary. But I think there are limits to that. And I think that I can now say with a calm conscience, as someone who has recently gained experience from opening an institution, that, although we are solidarity, the border has arrived, and we can see that there is a definite need for a new approach to solidarity, and that European fora must be very firmly aware of the need to use completely new approaches in the case of asylum and immigration in Europe. What can we do? Obviously, we can do something from our point of view, and I have to say, if there is a community of solidarity, and this was the community of Győr and Customs Free, and he said that finally there should be a reception centre in the village of Vámosszabadi, and there with honor and honor, those who need it - men, women, families, children - they receive care, that is right, but we cannot accept the incredible amount of refugees that have arrived in Hungary in the last two months, but even in the second half of the last year. The fact is that if we really do not want to have a host home in all Hungarian settlements - in the settlement of our fellow Member Harangozó or in the settlement of any other Member - then we have to say that a completely new approach is needed, and this new approach must obviously have a specific system of Hungarian institutions and decision-making, because we also see that some political forces in Europe do not understand this problem, they do not understand this problem as much as others do. Thank God, as I read the newspaper, for example, politicians already exist in Bavaria who dare to say a new approach in Germany in a completely different way, but I think that it is our responsibility now in Parliament and our responsibility in the future national consultation to try to create a future, a vision with the greatest possible support of Hungarian people, where, in addition to solidarity settlements and solidarity-based Hungarian communities, there must also be a very strong and very serious defence mechanism in order to give Hungarian families and Hungarian people a safe, safe vision for living and everything else. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-168	Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP. Here.
u2015-02-20-169	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, EU Member States already committed to developing a common European asylum system in 99 to better address asylum problems in Member States. The central principle of handling it has never been the development of means of getting rid of refugees, but rather the establishment of a fair procedure, humane treatment and burden sharing between Member States against refugees. To this end, Member States' asylum systems, procedures and overall Member States' asylum systems had to be coordinated. The EU has established the asylum fund, thereby providing financial support to Member States in the operation of their asylum systems, and in addition, a Community-based IT system is established that is suitable for checking fingerprints and determining whether they have not submitted an application in another Member State. Despite the directives and regulations aimed at European harmonisation, it appears that there are still differences between Member States in the approaches to protection in terms of reception conditions. Because these circumstances not only mean the living conditions of the country in which a refugee is situated, but also whether the refugee is properly informed of the information about his request, how long the procedure is, whether it restricts and how the refugee's freedom of movement is. I would like to refer here to what Antal Rogán has repeatedly suggested about the means he would use in this regard. And now some sentences from the report published by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. All over the world, the number of people forced to leave their homes is far above 50 million, which has never been done before. Some of the people involved seek asylum as an internal refugee, in their home country, and others seek security outside the countries. But the vast majority of the latter are accepted by the poorest countries in the world. I would like to draw your attention here, Hungary is a transit country, not a destination country. There are huge problems with concepts, as you can see. Here, illegal migration is mixed up with immigration from economic immigrants, but it is certain that 42,000 asylum seekers were registered last year, 500 people received total refugee status, so we are talking about a hystericalisation of government communication. The question is why 30 days is not enough to carry out the procedure, because otherwise all the tools are in the hands of the government. Let us say two things: one is that Hungarian legislation is the strictest regulation of the European Union; the other is this, which I have already mentioned, that Hungary is a transit country. So we should simply implement the regulation. Here I see that there is no coherence between the statements of Antal Rogán and Secretary of State Kontra. So I think you guys could talk about it. If it comes to making any changes to the rules, it can only come up with a pan-European solution, and it will be very close to the attempts that we have seen to expand their powers, to make a legislative change that serves the Fidesz' own self-power policy. After all the lies you've told here today, I don't know how you're gonna look in the mirror.
u2015-02-20-170	Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-02-20-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am also looking at this through Debrecen glasses, like my colleague László Pósán. I broadly agree with what the Congressman has to say. I would like to add and then interpret Jobbik's position on the situation in Debrecen and to make suggestions for solutions. The state of the reception centre in Debrecen in 2015 was not mentioned. In January about a thousand refugees arrived, and in the first two weeks of February 700 arrived at the Debrecen refugee camp. These numbers are also alarmingly high. As has already been said by many of my fellow Members, public safety is what is most damaging to the presence of the refugee camp in Debrecen. I am amazed at the wording that András Schiffer said, and I am very sorry that he is not here now, that he believes that refugees are victims of crime rather than perpetrators. I do not know of any such cases, at least in cases where Hungarians would have abused refugees, otherwise there are countless examples that these people commit crimes against Hungarians. I do call immigrants who commit crimes and pursue a criminal lifestyle in Hungary. In Debrecen, comments are common that they are intoxicated, harassing Hungarians both on the street and on the bus, harassing Hungarians, with special regard to lonely women, not afraid of indecent exposure. The gravity of the situation is also shown by the fact that in January 2013, two Iraqi immigrant criminals in downtown Debrecen almost stabbed a young Hungarian to death. There are more and more cases of abuse or insulting young Hungarians at entertainment venues. [[15.50]] And although my fellow Member Szabó Timea is not here, I would say to him that these acts were not committed by the foreign legions of the VSC of Debrecen. According to the official information of the Debrecen Police Commissioner, a local government representative from Debrecen at a municipal meeting said that in a week the police had dealt with refugees for 12 crimes, a serious assault and 14 violations of property. Again, I would like to point out that all this happened in Debrecen in a week. It has already been said that two Algerians attacked two young Hungarian girls and held a knife to their throats, robbed them, said my fellow Member, and talked about a serious fight in the refugee camp in Debrecen. In addition to the known crimes, without the need for completeness, I would like to say some of the cases that local people in Debrecen have told us and local journalists. In these cases, there has been no report, this is not in criminal statistics, but there have been cases. There was a young lady who reported that in the street opposite the camp, four of them ran after them, after her and her mother, and had to flee into the woods; fortunately, a police patrol car arrived, and the attackers fled. Another refugee camper started harassing a young girl on the bus, grabbing her, and she didn't have much to do with other assaults. And a young woman reported that when she was a mother, even when she was a mother, she was called in, not least, sexually offered to her by the refugees, which I do not consider refugees. And an elderly woman told me that a girl and her girlfriend had fled into her house after a group of campers went after them. They won't let their kids leave without an escort even in the daytime anywhere in the neighborhood. It has also been said from the mouth of my colleague László Lukács that there is a public health risk on this subject, and indeed, people in Debrecen are also afraid of infections. This fear is justified, because - think about the previous numbers. - if a thousand people, thousands of refugees were admitted by the station in Debrecen, then 200 to 300 people per week are almost impossible to examine carefully, to conduct a thorough medical examination and to do so, so the public health risk is real. We also need to include in the deck that these people are coming from Szeged, Budapest, Győr without an escort, as has already been the case, and they are in contact with a lot of people, they can visit many places. I would like to highlight a few things regarding the local treatment of the issue. On the one hand, thanks to the Debrecen police, their work has helped prevent more crimes and increase people's sense of security. That's a positive. However, there are also some negatives, such as the fact that recently 112 million forints were spent to make the reception centre in Debrecen more comfortable, and tea kitchens, gyms and sports halls were created. I think this is a very bad direction. This amount could also have been spent on, say, setting up a refugee camp or renovating a building outside of the town of Debrecen for this purpose; if that amount had not been enough, this process could have at least started. And the fact that the Helsinki Committee can only talk about how difficult the fate of poor refugees in the Debrecen refugee camp is, that is not true, I personally visited the refugee camp about a year and a half ago, it is not true that they live in distress; this is the real hysteria, and this should be stopped. Not to mention the opinion of the Democratic Coalition - and there are no representatives here for a reason - that illegal immigration must be made legal and legal migration must be revived. I'd rather not comment on that attitude or position. But what should we do? It should be taken strictly so that, until they have undergone a full medical examination, refugees are not allowed outside the camp. It has been said several times from the mouth of right-wing Members, right-wing politicians, that the reception centre in Debrecen should be declared closed, and in this case we would expect the government's position, as I have asked Károly Kontra several times, and he has generally avoided the answer to the Hungarian government's position on the closure, because at this moment, as a symptomatic treatment, this would solve the problem of public security in Debrecen. In the longer term, however, these reception centres, I am talking about Debrecen, or even other cities where there are such refugee camps, should be moved from the populated areas, so as to spare the people of Debrecen and the people who live there, to improve public security. And what is another aspect, and people around the Debrecen reception centre have brought to my attention that they are affected not only by public security issues, but also by property prices in the area, they have fallen greatly in recent times, and the Hungarian people in Debrecen are also drinking the juice of this issue. Once again, I would like to see the government's position on whether or not to support the closure of the refugee camp in Debrecen, and in the longer term, moving from populated areas would be the best solution in our opinion. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-172	Thank you very much. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP - I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you do not have a full two minutes.
u2015-02-20-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Immigration, emigration. So I would like to suggest to the pro-government representatives that they should always be aware of how they look at half a million to six hundred thousand Hungarians who live there as economic persecuted people. I would like you to note that London is the fifth largest city in Hungary, so it would be the fifth largest city in Hungary if we were to rely on the number of Hungarian residents. I want you to know how many people want to leave this country somewhere else to create more normal, better living conditions for themselves, and who they are: basically young people, and in a proportion that is terrible. [[Mihály Balla intervenes.]] And why is that? Because there's no job because there's no normal living. That's what you've created in five years. And, you know, the problem is, most of these working people don't want to come home. And my last sentence is that instead of national consultation, I recommend that you do your job, your duty, and then you do not have to organise a parliamentary debate like today. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-20-174	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik, here you go.
u2015-02-20-175	Mr President, Dear House, I think it is very dangerous that, if the issue of emigration and mass emigration, hundreds of thousands of emigration is interpreted by the Fidesz MEPs as part of freedom or even as an adventure wish. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame! It's a shame.]] It is dangerous to understand Hungary's elimination and the threat to the Hungarian nation's body. That is why Jobbik also started a debate day on emigration. This is now the debate day on immigration, but this is why so many arguments have conflicted, and the fact remains, there is a need for the government to really respond to specific questions. Would you be willing to help Balassagyarmat, Debrecen and the other affected cities to close down their refugee hostels and to put an end to walking in and out until the subjective and objective security and security of their population can be guaranteed? Furthermore, the question arises as to whether you are willing to restore border surveillance with a fair asset park, since we know very well who built the border guard. We also need to discuss whether they are willing to place similar hostels in the long term only outside of populated areas; here they have not responded to the local government circular either. So there are a lot of questions in the air without which you can't stand up fairly from this table now, and you should see what the government wants, what the concrete thing it does next. You said your position on a debate day, enhanced rhetorical tuning, and then we go home and nothing happens? Where are their billings? Where are the paper versions of their better intentions? So there is a strong expectation that they will answer the questions asked, that it will turn into concrete action that we have talked about, but most importantly, that Hungary's borders will be protected at any time, against anyone, and that the subjective sense of security of the population here can finally be restored. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] so that we can address the most important problem: the re-building of Hungary. Thank you.
u2015-02-20-176	Mr László Teleki, MSZP, as a normal word applicant up to the maximum time frame.
u2015-02-20-177	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think that the Fidesz can sit back because he re-enacts what he normally does: that he exercises grace when he launches such a debate day and really wants to favour Jobbik so that he can express his extremist views. [[16.00]] I am thinking here that today we have heard nothing but how exclusion, stigma, and the reduction of demographic waves can be achieved. I think the Fidesz is going in the right direction to make the Jobbik stronger, because all we've heard today - as I said - is these. Therefore, Fidesz has demonstrated today that it is unfit to govern. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-178	Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I'll ask if anyone who belongs to a faction who still has a time frame would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna make sure no one wants to say anything. This means that the Members' speeches are over. So I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra. You have 20 minutes tops, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the floor. Thank you for putting the issue of subsistence immigration on the agenda at the initiative of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association. I would like to thank all the factions and all the Members who have expressed their views in the debate. It is an important issue, which rightly employs Hungarian people, the Hungarian public. We believe that, with this debate today, we have taken a significant step towards making decisions on the issue of living immigration which are considered and which are valid for all Hungarian interests. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] On the basis of what has been said, we can say that there is no doubt that if there is no effective solution to the management of the refugee flood, Hungary will soon become a destination country, which means that refugees can remain permanently in Hungary. Many refugees are not fleeing from a real problem, there is no war in their country, they are not chasing him or his family, they are not in danger of life because of his nationality, religion or political creed; they come from a safe country, they flee their homeland for economic reasons. Their aim is to make a better living, so that immigrants of livelihoods abuse the protection provided by international law. It is also apparent, Honourable Parliament, that if we do not have strict laws in time, we cannot protect Hungary from the economic refugees that are stranded here. Hungary can become a refugee camp. I don't think we can afford that. We believe that we need a united and clear response from the Hungarian public on this issue. The government continues to insist that the Hungarian people have to decide on all the important issues, including the refugee issue, because their daily lives are influenced by living immigrants. Dear Parliament, I would now like to respond to some of the points raised in the debate. Mr Tamás Harangozó - I do not know if he is still here - asked why these procedures would not be completed quickly. I will tell you in the answer that the authority in the proceedings gives rise to an exception in the assessment of manifestly unfounded claims. If the client is at the authority's disposal, so stays there and does not disappear immediately, the decision may be taken within a few days or two. It should be stressed that this is only possible if the client does not leave an unknown place. It's an experiential, practical fact that 80 percent of them go away in a few days. How can he disappear? In the case of 90 percent, the reception centre shall be designated as the place of residence for the duration of the procedure, which may be left freely during the day on the basis of the policy of that reception centre. So they are not under restrictions of freedom, they take advantage of this legislative opportunity and move on and continue to travel. We also agree that it is necessary to ensure that the client waits for the decision-making process. However, this can only be done by detention, and this must be said. His comment that immigrants do not want to come to Hungary is somewhat disproved by statistics on legal migration. This has also been the subject of today's debate. I would like to say and to say the good news that these show that the number of applications for residence permits and the number of applications for establishment have also increased in recent years. This shows that Hungary's attractiveness is increasing, and we can all be happy about that. It is not true that the government has been idle, a number of government measures have been taken to reduce illegal migration, from technical developments to the transfer of forces. The result of this is that the border police reveals 95 percent of illegal border crossings at the state border, and in addition it also acts in the deep check of illegal migrants in accordance with Schengen rules, which is precisely served by the measures applied at railway stations. Several of our fellow Members have objected to this as a form of action. Dear Parliament, These are not pretend measures, but measures to control the depth resulting from the EU's obligation, which the Hungarian police are carrying out. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát challenged the force of the police and the police forces, the border police forces, and expressed his comments on the number of them, and also dealt with technical conditions. Border police agencies, border police offices, carry out Schengen border control tasks with appropriate technical means and personal conditions, and, in the case of deep check-ups, account must be taken of the fact that all police officers in the country's depth are also obliged to carry out checks in the interests of aliens, so all police officers are required to carry out checks. This means that if we look back at the facts, the border police integration took place on 1 January 2008. At the time, in December 2007, the number of border guards was around 11,000, and the number of policemen was 46,000. So there is more power in this regard. Of course, I'm not saying that every police officer carries out a border police task, but in principle, every police officer has an obligation to carry out this task if it happens, if he receives such an order. As to his statement regarding Asotthalom, I must note that border surveillance at the Schengen external border is not only based on a stable thermal camera, patrols are located in several lines, they also have mobile thermal cameras and night vision devices, which allow them to catch prohibited border crossings even if thermal camera detection is not possible. I believe that this is also demonstrated by practical numbers. And it has also been said in the debate that we have recently significantly strengthened the number of border officers serving on the Hungarian-Serbian border, and that technical equipment has also increased, so I think this is a significant step forward. Neither is it true that someone here has suggested that migrants cross the country uncontrolled, because, following the discovery of illegal border crossings, the police, if it is a asylum seeker, will record the applicant's data: fingerprints, photos, precisely to enable the necessary checks to be carried out in different registers. In the course of the asylum procedure, the law enforcement bodies, the Constitutional Protection Office and the TEK shall also carry out checks on persons staying at the reception centre. We are also having ongoing discussions with the Union, and at the Home Affairs Council, either Minister or on several occasions, we have raised the need for tightening up and joint action. Joint action with Frontex, the EU Border Agency and the Austrian, Serbian and German authorities are continuing in this area. [[György Szilágyi: So everything is fine.]] It's not all right, Congressman, but if you don't mind, I will continue, and thank you very much for your patience. Member András Schiffer, whom I welcome now and who appears to be only in the soul, is now not in Parliament's Chamber: in asylum proceedings, the Constitutional Protection Office and the TEK are administrative authorities, thus eliminating persons who pose a risk to terrorism. Several applicants have been screened in the last year, and in 13 cases TEK has taken measures in the case of 13 applicants. TEK also cooperates closely with national bodies, with regular exchange of information. The lack of recognition has been undermined by Congressman Schiffer. The reason why the number of recognitions is so low is because a large majority of clients are excluded from the procedures. That's what we talked about. In fact, if they had remained more present until the procedure was conducted, they would have exceeded 10,000 beneficiaries of international protection. Asylum detention can only be imposed in a narrow manner, which is absolutely necessary to change the rule. This detention is not intended to deter applicants, but to enable the procedure to be carried out. [[16.10]] I would also like to thank the Members who have shared with us the experiences of those living next to reception centres, whether it be Debrecen, Bicske, Vámosszabadi, Balassagyarmat, Nyírbátor or Nagyfa stations. I think that people in those settlements should be thanked for their patience, solidarity, so that these reception centres can operate there. Dear Parliament, In the course of the debate, it also became clear that if Hungary can act strongly against the mass emergence of living immigrants, it will also become clear in the Balkans that it is not worth coming to Hungary illegally. I trust that today's debate has also helped us to adopt rules, regulations, laws that express Hungarian interests; these are stricter laws, laws that speed up the procedure, which allow Hungary not to be the country of destination for immigrants of livelihoods, and in the interests of the Hungarian people, we can create rules that serve the interests of the people of Hungary. We are confident that the national consultation will also help the legislators, the legislators, to create the right legislation, and this will also contribute to Hungary's interests, the security of Hungary, to making our lives safer. Allow me to finally thank you myself once more. [[György Szilágyi: What are the plans?]] to the staff of the Office for Immigration and Nationality, to the police, to the staff of TEK, to all authorities and to the staff of all organisations involved in this very important task and working for the safety of all of us, the service without which we cannot say that Hungary is carrying out the tasks arising from the EU's obligation on the one hand and that their activities make a major contribution to our safety. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I would like to thank all the factions [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] to all Members for taking part in the debate and giving their views. [[György Szilágyi: What changes will there be? Mr. Secretary, don't stop.]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-20-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The political debate is closed. Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for the floor in order of order. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, I would like to initiate the meeting of the House Committee by 10.30 a.m. on Monday morning on the agenda for next week, and the Jobbik Group will formally initiate this in the appropriate form. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-182	Thank you very much. I will inform the House of this. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with general debates. The 2011 CXC on national public education follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Mr László Kucsák Fideszes made a separate motion by our fellow Member T/3119. He may have been recognized. First, I give the floor to Mr László Kucsák, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame, who will speak from here on the platform. We'll wait for Congressman to wake up. Thank you very much, Congressman. You have the floor, please.
u2015-02-20-183	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, My motion for an independent amendment concerns the tasks and related tasks of the National Public Education Act concerning the operation of the Public Education Institution of municipal municipalities. It is worth recalling that in this area, two categories were created by the Public Education Act, the municipalities of more than 3,000 inhabitants, and the settlements of a population not exceeding 3,000 inhabitants. According to the main rule, the legal passage currently in force provides for an operating obligation for settlements with a population of more than 3 000 persons, and for settlements not exceeding 3 000 persons, the State accepts the obligation as the main rule. In particular, the municipality with a population of more than 3 000 inhabitants must, according to the current rules, ensure the operation of movable and immovable property, other than the vocational training school, in the area of competence of all self-owned public education institutions maintained by the State institution-supporting centre. In another category, municipalities with a population not exceeding 3 000 inhabitants may, with the exception of vocational training schools, undertake to provide for the operation of movable and immovable property belonging to all public education institutions in their area of competence which are owned and maintained by the State Institution Maintenance Centre. It is also possible to request exemption from the obligation to operate for all institutions, but this is also the case for municipalities with a population of more than 3 000 inhabitants and for municipalities with a population not exceeding 3 000 inhabitants, if, despite the fact that this is not an obligation, it intends to operate the public education institutions in its area of competence, the State institution-support centre, i.e. the Klebelsberg Institution-Sustaining Centre, which is to shorten the public education institutions operating in the maintenance of Klik. It may be worth mentioning that there are examples in both cases. In fact, there are currently 120 public education institutions which, in the case of municipalities with a population of more than 3 thousand, have been exempted from the obligation to operate, and there are 55 municipalities with a population not exceeding 3 thousand that have taken over the operation from the State. Both applications, i.e. exemption from operation and voluntary undertaking of operation, can be submitted subject to a closed deadline and are for a local government election cycle. The Public Education Act is 76. According to paragraph 4 of the Act, the local government may submit an application by 31 March of the year following the election of the local government representatives if it is able to take over the operation from the next school year from the state or is unable to carry out the operation. The local government which is exempted from the obligation to operate shall pay a specified amount of contribution. The contribution shall be set at the same amount per month for the period up to 31 August following 1 September following the year of the next election of local government representatives and up to 31 August following the year of the subsequent election of local government representatives. The review will take place in the year following the forthcoming election of the local government representatives. National Public Education Act 74. Paragraph 6 of this Article. In the proposal submitted, I wish to postpone the deadline of 31 March, as indicated above, until 15 June, and in addition to that, for all local authorities concerned, in whose territory the public education institution maintained by KLIK operates in municipal municipal buildings, regardless of the number of inhabitants, we would impose a declaration obligation. The reason for delaying the deadline is that changes to the obligation of local authorities to operate can be dealt with in a uniform manner, while giving the local authorities concerned more time to prepare the necessary data. The obligation to make a declaration is necessary in order to reduce the number of potential errors resulting from the provision of municipal data. Therefore, there should be no doubt that the intention of a municipality other than the main rule of the law must be confirmed even if its application was granted in 2012. [[16.20]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, the municipality may submit an application by 31 March of the year following the election of the local government representatives if it is able to take over the operation from the next school year from the State or is unable to carry out the operation. The local government which is exempted from the obligation to operate shall pay a specified amount of contribution. The contribution shall be set at the same amount per month for the period up to 31 August following 1 September following the year of the next election of local government representatives and up to 31 August following the year of the subsequent election of local government representatives. The review will take place in the year following the forthcoming election of the local government representatives. National Public Education Act 74. Paragraph 6 of this Article. In the proposal submitted, I wish to postpone the deadline of 31 March, as indicated above, until 15 June, and in addition to that, for all local authorities concerned, in whose territory the public education institution maintained by KLIK operates in municipal municipal buildings, regardless of the number of inhabitants, we would impose a declaration obligation. The reason for delaying the deadline is that changes to the obligation of local authorities to operate can be dealt with in a uniform manner, while giving the local authorities concerned more time to prepare the necessary data. The obligation to make a declaration is necessary in order to reduce the number of potential errors resulting from the provision of municipal data. Therefore, there should be no doubt that the intention of a municipality other than the main rule of the law must be confirmed even if its application was granted in 2012. (16.20) It is important, therefore, the provision under the proposal states that, in the absence of a declaration, the state of the main rules of the law will enter into force, i.e. the municipal municipality with a population of more than 3 000 inhabitants is obliged to operate, and KLIK will ensure the operation from 1 September of the year following the election of local government representatives, as part of the reservation. The obligation to make a declaration addresses the situation in which a local government would interpret the legal provisions in such a way that it does not need to confirm its request for exemption from the KLIK 3 years ago, i.e. in 2012, but, failing that, the obligation to operate would be withdrawn from KLIK from 1 September 2015. The same is true for the operation: KLIK operates from 1 September 2015 in the territory of a municipality not exceeding 3 000 persons in the absence of a further request. The bill clarifies the legislative provisions concerned, sets out even clearer, to say, detailed rules, and strengthens the interpretation of the law in accordance with its original legislative intention. To sum up, the proposal leaves more time to make a declaration, instead of 31 March, it would postpone this deadline to 15 June and it would be possible to manage a single case by providing a declaration to all the municipalities concerned with full data. I call on the honourable Members to consider what has been said and to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-20-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Dr. Judit Bertalan, Secretary of State, if she wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2015-02-20-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We support the bill tabled by my fellow Member Kucsák on the part of the Government, and we agree with its content, and I ask the House to support the bill on the grounds of the security of the institutions' operation and the proper cooperation with local authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-20-186	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I would like to inform this House that the Fidesz and the KDNP Group have indicated that they will present the views of the political groups later in the debate. I therefore give the floor first to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, in 15 minutes. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-02-20-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Madam Secretary! The proposal before us is nothing more than a consequence. In recent years, we have been able to watch the Hungarian education system attempt to adapt it to its own world image, to the fragmentary and, to a large extent, misinterpretation of reality that you have at all. The Fidesz government's education policy has identified some problems in recent years. There was one of these, which was undoubtedly a real problem, and since the change of regime, right- and left-wing governments have been rolling before them, having difficulty doing what they did with it, and there was something that simply didn't exist in your mind, and they invented an institution, and unfortunately, they created an entire ideology for it. Such a problem, which was a real problem, is an existing problem in the system of Hungarian public education, and you should have sought to resolve it, and we should have moved forward, for example, the issue of segregation, and you will make it worse. But this is the serious selection issue of the Hungarian school system, which also raises a very big problem. The same problem is that our educational system has a disadvantage-enhancing function instead of creating odds, unfortunately. There is a problem in the public education system today, and you have done nothing, and don't look at me with big eyes, because this tiny amendment of the proposal is exactly about trying to solve the problem you create with a fake problem, it's over-centralization, and it's not the real problems you're facing. Such a real problem, for example, is that the country is full of functional illiterates, and you have done nothing to eliminate it, not even trying to eliminate it, that in the Hungarian education system the problem of understanding text, thinking ability, differentiated thinking, logical ability of children is very limited, the ability of learning, the ability to dare to make mistakes. You uniform, centralize, and do nothing to enable children in a modern world to stand up and build an education system that helps them to adapt not only to the education system, but also to the actors and children. They did nothing to create a new pedagogical culture in Hungary and a new classroom culture that will help the Hungarian school system to develop. Compared to this, you have created a rigid, uniformed system and an over-centralized system. They're pushing the system full of non-existent problems like the lack of ideological education before. There was no need for this, but the Hungarian school system did not need a national master plan which, in our opinion, contains an unteachable and unteachable amount of lexical knowledge. Teachers and children are drowning in all this learning, unnecessary, because their abilities are not actually improving. But that's not the kind of problem you shouldn't have touched, the textbook system. It was very unnecessary, for example, to take away the independence of schools; it was also not a problem; but the obligation to teach was something they should not have touched, not to talk about the powers of directors and the demotion and demotion of them; I could mention it. I just wanted to draw the attention of this House and my fellow members of the Government to the fact that today the state is going in violently where it has no place to go and exits - and whether it is education, health or social system, because it is not possible to talk alone about the problem of education, whenever it is about education in this House, only in its complexity - and you are going to withdraw the state from it, where otherwise there is an incredible need. For example, the children should hold hands with the state, the poor children. Yeah, the problem was funding. The local funding of schools in the fragmented municipal system has created an increasing problem for the state and the municipality together. The problem, my fellow Members, is that you have given the worst possible answer that politics can squeeze out of itself, and that is full centralization. I would like to mention this to you, in the previous Social Democratic governments in the process of preparing decisions, this idea, such a role of the state, has come up, but another thing is that a government in preparation for decisions has a problem, and another thing is that someone does it foolishly, and this is wrong. So they nationalized the entire sector, put all schools under one center. The consequences can be seen, please: absences at every point of the system, thousands of malfunctions, missing chalk, missing tablets, shocking lack of resources everywhere; there were teachers who had not paid their contributions, in many schools there were no basic conditions for teaching, no paper or paint, no printer. You simply have not been able to comprehend in recent years that a single centre, a departmental room, cannot operate a system of such a large, enormous number of actors, either technically or pedagogically. And when the Prime Minister himself asked the Commissioner to go to the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, look at what is happening, because it is quite simply impossible that we cannot set up an institution without obstacles and rolling, and, by the way, we didn't even expect everything to go smoothly, because there are always flaws in a system when there is such a transformation, but there are fundamental problems and lack of resources, I don't think the Prime Minister himself and the government, but even the Commissioner didn't think so. I'll tell you, I didn't think I'd be able to do the centralization that you supported and that we didn't support. I have to mention the nationalisation of the textbook market here, as the whole amending proposal is about one of the twisting and bugging of nationalisation. Here you nationalised the textbook production, distribution, and development are now under the control of the state. [[16.30]] I must say that the law on the order of the textbook market came from the first Orbán government, it was a very good textbook law. We Socdems protected and protected him for two cycles. Unfortunately, you have succeeded in nationalising this. Entrepreneurship was destroyed, and as a result, students received the mid-term certificate before the textbooks in some schools. And the poorness of the equatorial book, I don't think it's worth mentioning, because it's some kind of scandal. I could give examples endlessly. The fact is that the design economy has failed for a reason, my fellow members of the government. It is also a coincidence that the first-time leaders of the two major flagships of nationalization - the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center and the Library Supply Center - have already failed. Madam Secretary, your predecessor, who, by the way, managed the entire nationalization, is no longer in place. What you've come up with just doesn't work, because it doesn't match everyday reality. It is quite clear that they have no idea what kind of educational revolution is taking place in the world today, they have no idea of the single years of public education, early development, the changed significance of primary school development years, the tolerant, inclusive, cooperative, creative and democratic - de-mok-ra-ti-kus - school on the basis of the school, my fellow Members. They think that the school of industrial society combined with a design economy is a good solution, but it hasn't been done right so far. Therefore, this should be done better in some way. I have to disappoint you. The design economy can't be done right in 2015. The very wide variety of children's needs for development in today's technological environment cannot be solved. Now that programmes that have been running for 2-3 years have accumulated a nasty setback, spectacularly impaired children's performance, spectacularly dissimilar to reality, and will inevitably show up on the results of a generation's studies, they are now starting to work. This amendment is nothing more than a Mekk masterpiece. They're trying to reorganize a flawed idea with more force, a little bit here and there, and I'm still waiting for some ideology to be manufactured. [[László Kucsák: That's tough! Read it. Dr. András Aradski: What school did you teach at?]] Congressman Kucsák, ideology has been canceled, I see the system is weakening. Be more prepared, at least stick to your own paradigm. But the biggest problem is that every year, under your government, another generation of children aged 6-7 goes into schools and comes out with useless knowledge without abilities. The bill before us now does not dissipate the sense of thoughtlessness. Actually, it's a confession. It only interrupts time limits and builds up functions that seek to clarify and save faults due to the system's inability to function. For example, it pushes out the reporting possibilities of the municipality that cannot assume its operational obligation by 15 July, as it is written, so that the municipalities can carry out their budgets with responsibility. Well, the date is not in line with the deadline for adoption of the municipal budget. The same question arises about the reorganization of data provision. I would like to say to you that at the last meeting of the Cultural Committee, Imre Sipos, Deputy State Secretary for Public Education, made a surprising remark to the proposal. He said that it was necessary to rewrite the rules on data collection in order to ensure that all schools, regardless of the number of settlements in which they operate, can provide data to the Ministry in time, regardless of the number of settlements under 3,000. Question: What kind of data does the additional data collection option even apply? Do these additional data collection options cover personal or other specific data? Please tell me that's not true. And could the time be pushed from 31 March to 15 June be explained by the fact that more time is needed to collect data? In addition, the CLIK has not shown in recent years that if, let's say, on 15 June something came to its attention that it had to take over an institution, it would be able to resolve it without disruption, so we still have fears about it. In fact, this amendment is somewhere to admit the malfunction of the CLIK. If there is a need to rearrange the request for data, increase the possibilities and change the deadline for the request, KLIK is not in fact suitable for carrying out its tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The original purpose of nationalization would have been, wouldn't it - and you said so - so that the state could better manage everything in the system from one centre. It should be more effective, cheaper, smoother and eliminate all the problems that governments - right and left governments - have been unable to solve in recent years or more difficult to solve. Please, you have been able to nationalise it so that today the Klebelsberg Institutional Center has become the main source of problems, unfortunately, not the key to a solution. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Chicks! Laughing:]] I'm gonna turn it into a The whole concept is wrong and inoperable, and we believe that decentralisation, strengthening local decision-making, and ultimately the breakdown of total centralization madness are still necessary. As has been the case so far, we continue to represent this, and the next Social Government will take the initiative to do so, along with the profession. We will not contribute to this further destruction. Of course, we do not support the bill. Come to your senses, fellow Members. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-188	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Dóra Dúró. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-02-20-189	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I don't promise to be able to talk about a one-page amendment, say, thirteen and a half minutes, as Ágnes Kunhalmi did in front of me, and I don't promise to interpret the house rule as freely as he did. So I would not like to bring here, by the way, legitimate and very important criticisms that you have said about the order of the textbook market or the operation of the CLIK, because that is simply not the subject of the bill. Here the change in the reporting deadline is the most important amendment that this amendment, once again, consists of two paragraphs, where Article 2 states that: § is only the entry into force, so it is a substantive paragraph that we need to talk about. Indeed, in order to see the background of the whole, I think it is justified that we take a little into account the logic of public reservation and the situation of settlements of less than 3 thousand people and settlements of more than 3 thousand people with regard to their relations with education and education institutions. The main rule is that settlements of less than 3,000 people are operators of their schools, so certain material conditions, which are not closely linked to education, ensure them and have no say in the life of their own schools. On the other hand, the situation is reversed: they remained operating in settlements over 3,000 people, while they do not even perform this task according to the main rule in less than 3 thousand. If you want to change this, so you want to get out of this main rule, then you have the opportunity to make this statement, which will be postponed. Deputy Secretary of State said why it is that this is what I have said... - and I have already said at the committee meeting that they are forced to introduce a deadline on 15 June, which was deemed to be too late, and must be adapted to another deadline which expires on 31 May. But it seems to me that, in the light of the operation of the KLIK so far, the flow of these actuator changes will not be smooth. On 15 June, the school year is over, or it ends a day or two later, but in any case, I find it difficult to imagine that this change of actuator can be carried out smoothly during a summer period. On the one hand, not only the operation of the KLIK must be taken into account, but there are clearly different obligations and participation from the municipality in this process. During the summer period, all administration is slower, not only in education but also in other areas, so we also consider this deadline on 15 June to be a concern, too. If we compare it to the deadline of 31 May, it would, of course, be acceptable, but it would be worth watching the whole process to see if all the deadlines are justified and could not be squeezed a little bit on each of them, so that the 15th of June is also a little further ahead, so that they can continue this safely and smoothly. [[16.40]] In the case of public reservation, there was virtually no choice for the municipalities, the maintainer of virtually no municipality could remain for the schools in its own municipality. We have already criticised this, and I still think that this was not a good decision. In the case of settlements of less than 3 000 inhabitants and over 3 000 inhabitants, I think it was a wrong move to exclude municipalities from the reservation. There were a lot of settlements that, at the expense of other sectors and at the benefit of their own school, made decisions that cherished this school, took it to heart, and fought a lot for decades, even to keep the school itself. In this case, the municipalities often had to make painful decisions against other sectors, but the school is a last resort in every settlement for the survival of the settlement itself, especially in the case of small settlements, because if the children will leave the settlement from the age of 6 years, then there is much less chance that they will continue their lives as employees or in any other way. On the other hand, there are municipalities where not only the other social aspects would be justified, but also the specific educational result, so let's say that the school has performed the measurements in the maintenance of the municipality above the national average. I think that if such a situation had arisen, we can say that this municipality was a good owner of that school, because the children had come out of these institutions with more than national average knowledge, and I do think it would have been important for them to retain it, to remain their own owner of these institutions, and they would not have been in such a humiliating situation that only the provision of technical tools would fall within their competence. We need to say a few more words about the operation of the KLIK, precisely because it is practically a six-week period when we have to conduct this new transfer-over, which may not be expected to be a mass phenomenon, but in the life of the municipality itself it is a big thing to take over or return a school to KLIK. So, on the part of the CLIK, we hope that there will be no disruption, no mass transfer, but we can see that this mammoth institution is able to slip for several months in terms of various asset purchases, which has still not been effective. This may also be a concern which does not consider it appropriate to introduce this very late deadline on 15 June in this respect. I ask that the whole process be treated comprehensively and that all deadlines may be moved forward, not only with regard to the budgets, but also with regard to the deadline already mentioned on 31 May. So in this form, we will not be able to support this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-02-20-190	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is István Ikotity. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The latest amendment to the Public Education Act has been implemented on a regular basis. These constant changes are no longer required, nor are they numbered. In the previous cycle, József Michl and his casual associates, Pál Hoffman and Péter Hoppál, did this crafty, law-carved work and tried to deal with the ongoing problems of the public education system with individual proposals. Not so long ago, at the end of last year, we discussed the education salad provided by the Ministry of Human Resources in Parliament, and part of it also covered the operation of educational institutions. That's what we have to deal with right now. In February 2015, László Kucsák is coming to the aid of the national public education system. As a result of the genre of his individual representatives' motion, he avoids the forced and unpleasant conduct of consultations and consultations. As before, the competent department of the Ministry of Human Resources has already put the changes in the pen. They woke up late, and due to certain deadlines, the rules on operation need to be changed quickly, who knows how many times already. László Kucsák's specific proposal would briefly standardise the obligation to declare the operation of local authorities and postpone the deadline for this. According to Rózsa Hoffmann's concept of school maintenance, municipalities with a population of more than 3,000 inhabitants are the operators of the institutions. However, municipalities with a population not exceeding 3,000 people do not even ensure operation. If they do otherwise, they can indicate this intention by submitting an application. The details of this have now been slightly altered. This is not the interesting thing, but rather the fact that they are still trying to regulate a fundamentally flawed school-supporting system. Nor is it really interesting that they are doing this again, not with a ministry proposal, but with a request from individual representatives. The point is that we are still not talking about how to change this basically flawed maintenance system. The convulsive centralization, the system-alien mammoth institution, which is KLIK, the permanent shortage of resources - according to experts, nearly HUF 200 billion is missing from the budget - the continuous changes, all of which contribute to operational problems, system failures and daily disturbances. Although it has already been discussed to review the current system, we do not know whether this is in progress and what changes will be made. For the time being, Sándor Czomba, under the leadership of State Secretary for Employment Policy, the Ministry of National Economy highlights vocational training institutions under the authority of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre. We don't know what kind of change that's gonna make, but it can't get any worse than it already is. The Possibly Other Politics not only formulates criticism, we try to be constructive, we also represent an intermediate solution to the operation of maintenance. After the change of regime, a centralised, fragmented municipal maintenance model was built. In large part, the significant inequalities in the system are due to the fact that smaller municipalities have not been able to offer quality education to local residents due to a lack of money, such as better-placed municipalities. Free schooling provided an opportunity to migrate between institutions, parents could take their children to larger cities, better schools. However, after 2010, we fell on the other side of the horse. Public reservation and comprehensive centralization have frozen the system, tied the hands of teachers, tied the hands of school principals, and the scope of the institutions has ceased. However, less and less money will be spent on the system, not least until the teacher raises wages. Although a teacher's wage increase is indeed pumping significant resources into the system of public education, and there is a great need for it - in parentheses, of course, increasing the career model and the workload is already a less successful story - but this does not help the management and maintenance issues. The intermediate solution of the LMP is that instead of the central state, the role of the maintenance of local communities should be strengthened and, where the municipality so requests, the schools should be returned to the local community and the state should provide the necessary resources to carry out the additional tasks undertaken. Of course, we are aware that from today to tomorrow, the system cannot be reconfigured, neither can the KLIK be closed. However, there is a need to find a solution as soon as possible to the question of school maintenance and operation; the former liberal decentralised model and the current nationalised centralised public education with a view to socialism does not work either. The solution is somewhere between the two. This should be created, agreed and introduced as soon as possible after proper preparation instead of whittling. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-02-20-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr László Kucsák, as rapporteur, asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, Mr President said that the Fidesz and the KDNP groups will express their position on the proposal later. I am able to inform my fellow Members here that the members of these two political groups have given their support to this proposal, so it has obviously been reflected in the vote on which former Minister István Hiller was not present at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, but we have decided with majority support on inclusion in the series. [[16.50]] Allow me to react briefly to one or two of these things. It was interesting to hear that we were able to hear contributions of quite different duration and quality on a proposal that was not too long. If you'll excuse me, I wouldn't be indecent, but I'd go backwards in the timeline. I've heard some pretty interesting ratings about myself, and I've made a note of them. István Ikotity, a fellow member of the committee, may have referred to me as an industrialist. If we agree to support the SME sector, I do not see this as a negative comment. And if we agree on what kind of business I am in, then I am very happy to be available, and I will try to help, as you say in this case. Commission President Dóra Dúró, on behalf of Jobbik, tried to keep the subject matter in mind, and he said that it did not go beyond what this proposal aims and puts forward; although we could hear a general outlook here too. These debates have been held over the past few years, but there will obviously still be more on the table. At the same time - and I would like to say this to Ágnes Kunhalmi, the representative of the MSZP - the genre of salad-like proposals is known in the various legislative proposals, amendments and other genres. Yours was a salad-like comment on a short, concrete, targeted and relevant amendment proposal, in which I also helped, my dear Agnes, at the beginning, because I indicated that in the National Public Education Act, this proposal aims to address issues related to the operation of the public education institutions of local authorities. It is not too long, however, in this salad-like comment - let us trust that in a salad-like comment suitable for human consumption - we have heard again a kind of national death-vision from Ágnes Kunhalmi. I fear that an old speech has been made, because we have heard it all with great interest. Of course, what you say is based on a professional basis, we have no doubt that you are an authentic source of teaching, methodology, segregation, ideological education, financing issues and all the other issues you have outlined, and we all feed from pure sources. So we continue to wish you success and good health in your work. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I live in Salad!]] At the same time, it would be fortunate for you to be able to focus on what this particular proposal is aimed at, precisely, on the fact that local authorities - not the public education institutions, the municipal authorities - will be able to say, at present, by 31 March. We may agree that it is appropriate to allow as much time as possible for a declaration for five years, taking into account the current electoral cycles. In this case - and I say this a little to Dóra Dúró - of course there is a possibility that the intention of the local government to state whether or not it considers its position different from the previous mainstream or the main rule. Obviously, this could happen sooner than on 15 June, but I also think that this deadline is justified because, in the context of the current regulatory system, this decision is about half a decade of institution management. I think it is also important for local authorities to be able to make this decision with as much knowledge and responsibility as possible. Agnes, what I could suggest is that you don't just use the one disk you have at your disposal right now. He would be lucky if he didn't fall into the same mistake as - perhaps he knows - in the fine film Picasso's Adventures, which deals with the life of the illustrious creator in an entertaining way, and in it appears a colorful character, Finnish designer, who knew only one song, also in Finnish. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-194	I would like to inform this House that a two-minute speech is not yet possible. Now, Mr Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member, will be able to make a proper speech and then two minutes of speeches. In the meantime, I'd like everyone to be patient. Thank you very much. Congressman Szabolcs Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I promise I'll be very quick, and we'll have a two-minute window in no time. On the one hand, I am not going to comment with the salad character because my fellow Member Kucsák has told me in quite detail what this legislative amendment proposal is about, and Ágnes Kunhalmi has said in very detail that there is a feeling that there is, otherwise, a system that is not working. My fellow Member Ikotity said that the system was being dealt with, and I would add that I believe that this is sufnituning, and then the salad notes were closed. Rather, I would like to make some major technical comments on this really short amendment proposal. On the one hand, it is an interesting question, which Dóra Dúró has put in detail, namely the deadline of 15 June. I fully understand what László Kucsák says, that five years ahead of the municipalities. The new body of representatives must obviously learn about this system, and on this basis the new representatives and mayors must make decisions, but I still think that there is a very great truth in what Dóra Dúró said that it would be decided in the middle of the summer, because we know well that the deadlines in Hungary are always followed by the fact that everything is ready for the last moment. I would also suggest that you consider once again whether this deadline could not be set a little sooner, even if the related date of May 31 should be made a little further. Once we change the law, we can finally change the deadline. What is also interesting about this bill: as László Kucsák said, in fact, there is a great deal of interest in it, because not only do municipalities other than the main rule have to speak now, but all municipalities, which are rather strange at first glance. Seems to me like a little circumstantial argument to make sure everyone else doesn't forget. When we discussed the subject series at the committee meeting, the representative of the wallet said that it was actually necessary to comb the databases in the different wallets. I asked him what databases it was, but I didn't understand the answer, and I've been thinking about it to this day. So I'd like to ask you once again what kind of databases we're talking about. I'm really interested in that. On the other hand, I assume that some specific procedural rule still needs to be codified for this declaration, I assume, at the level of the regulation. Is there anything you can tell me about that? I would also note that I am not a lawyer, and I usually find it difficult to read and interpret the legal language of the bull tree - this was particularly difficult - but when our lawyer said that there was a sentence in it that he had to read ten times, I was convinced that the error was not necessarily with me. Therefore, I would like to put it at the very least as a suggestion that perhaps a bit more refined in the text, so that it can be understood. This will be possible with regard to the amendments. Thank you very much, I would have been so short.
u2015-02-20-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor from the group of the MSZP to Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament. And I would ask Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi to remain logged in as she had been for a proper speech, because for two minutes only one of one faction will have the opportunity and you will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go, notary.
u2015-02-20-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Kucsák, I believe, and I believe that according to the house rules, it is not necessarily necessary to stick to what is drafted in the draft law within the framework of a general debate, but also to discuss what is related to this idea in a broader sense. I just want to establish that the criticism of the kind that Agnes Kunhalmi is concerned about in this regard is at least questionable. But that's not my basic problem. My fundamental problem is that in that brief summary, I should be looking for words about who he didn't start insulting. [[17.00]] Let's just say that your relationship with the association of craftsmen is not very strong, although I would like to say, and also note that if anyone could claim to be a craftsman over the past few years, they were usually people with expertise. For you, who considers yourself close to the subject in terms of public education and the relationship between education [[To László Kucsák:]] You should know, without showing off, what it really means to be a craftsman. And for the third time, I would like to say, in line with the issue itself, that you know that when society has faced so many torsos in the framework of Klebelsberg over the past few years, but I do not want to say society, just the multitude of people dealing with public education, then perhaps it would be worth talking a little more about this issue. Also, let's say the reason why vocational training institutions have now come out or are now out of this heavenly framework. There must be a reason. There must be a powerful reason for this and a lot of other things that have led to this. So it is also worth dissecting the bill in this way. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-20-198	Thank you very much. We will continue with the speeches. A proper speech will be followed by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, from the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-199	Mr. President, thank you very much. My dear fellow Member, I understand you're embarrassed, and it's embarrassing for you to listen to the elements of my salad. Believe me, my salad is healthier than yours. Don't let it get to you. I believe he's protecting himself from this. But I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary and you two more questions, in addition to personalizing and qualifying, in case you can answer that. In the light of previous looting government and parliamentary decisions, it is questionable to us what additional budget lines will be used to cut the revenue of the municipalities that have given up the task as compensation. Do we know how much withdrawal this will mean? My second question is that the municipalities that have so far kept and financed the operation of their schools could at least in some way communicate with their former institutions. What will happen next, my fellow members of the government? Will the possibility of contact with the institution completely cease? At the institutions where parents rightly expect the representative body of the settlement to represent and enforce the interests of the inhabitants of the settlements in school matters, the interests of the parents, who will they turn to next? Because as long as the schools were run, at least in some way the local government was there. Many times we received information from the mayor, representatives and educators of many settlements that until then, at least if they didn't have chalk, the municipality had helped them. If there was a problem because they missed it, they couldn't even keep in touch with the KLIK because it was so bureaucratic that they couldn't find anyone. Everyone pointed up to finding the answer to the problem to be solved in the legislation. Many times, the municipality still gave me emergency aid. What's next, my dear fellow Member? Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-200	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Sallai R. Benedek, from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I did not intend to comment initially on this agenda, but it became clear that in the general debate it was possible to examine a broader political and professional environment of the proposal, so it really was only one thing that came to my mind to look at this two-page material. I think it's eligible. Why can't it be? There's nothing like that in there. If you want to extend it, extend it. The fact that by May or June now, this is a professional issue that needs to be discussed by professionals. What I don't understand is: when Congressman Kucsák looks at Hungarian public education, the system of public education, is that really the biggest problem he sees in public education, that this is something to be touched on? You have been given such a serious mandate from Hungarian society with two thirds that you can transform everything, make everything better. At the same time, there are the village schools that the MSZP closed during its administration, but nothing happened to restore them. The system of Hungarian environmental education has collapsed, practically all of them have ceased. To date, it would be mandatory to hold forest schools and provide environmental education for children, but there is no financial background. We had our budget amendments, which made proposals in this direction, and they were wiped down one by one. So I fully understand that it is sometimes necessary to touch it in order to fulfil administrative obligations. Now is not the first and last time we have to go to a law that may not have been defined with sufficient care in the past. All I miss is that if you already have the authority to touch anything, then why don't you try to deal with the real roots of the problems and look at the system where the actual and bigger errors are. In the public education system, I think it would be a good thing to deal with, and once someone, an individual Member, wakes up with a single representative's motion at night, that heureka, I will submit an amendment to make a different date, then how good it would be to try to answer them on a technical basis, in a much broader context. I just wanted to say that there are a number of other areas of public education that need to be addressed. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-20-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since no pro-government representative has applied, the circle is over and a two-minute speech is possible. Meanwhile, Congressman László Kucsák asked for the floor. Then Congressman László Kucsák has the floor. It'll be two minutes from here.
u2015-02-20-203	Thank you very much. I promise I'll be very brief. I do not see Mr Nándor Gúr in the same Chamber. [[For signal:]] - Sorry, notary, yes, thank you very much, but you probably missed something. I didn't use the term "industrial," I just reacted to it. My fellow Member drew such a parallel, and he heard my reaction to it. There was nothing offensive about it, and I even tried to include myself in this category, and I left it to Congressman Ikotity to see which area might be considered. But then beyond what Sallai R. Benedict said, that's right. Obviously, many aspects of the field of public education are worthy of rethinking. This job is going on, by the way. I'd like to signal it. In particular, this proposal, which we are talking about, aims to postpone a date not too far away at the same time, I would like to point out this to Ágnes Kunhalmi, which, by the way, does not mean any reduction in the rights of school, parent or local government to do or to do so. Compared to the public education law currently in force, the time limit for making a declaration would be changed to 15 June instead of 31 March, and this circle would be widened by the fact that this obligation to make a declaration would affect each settlement in which the task of managing the maintenance of a public education institution would appear or appear in any way. So the municipality, if you wish to be an operator, can declare this, there is no restriction. If it were mandatory to operate according to the main rule, but you want to deviate from it, you can initiate this, there is no difference here. There is a difference that this should not be done by the municipality concerned as a final deadline by 31 March but by 15 June. That is why I mentioned in my previous speech that it is worth looking at the proposal itself, what it is really about. It doesn't expand beyond this particular circle. This is an important moment for many municipalities, and for public education institutions operated by local governments, thus also for children, parents and all concerned, of course, teachers working in it and staff helping teachers. That is what this proposal is about. I have proposed, of course respecting the institution of freedom of expression, that it may be worth discussing this in particular. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-20-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was interesting to observe the metacommunications of the Secretary of State here during the debate. I can say that I think this position as Secretary of State deserves a little more than seeing faces like this from the Secretary of State, as I have watched here, and the subject is a little more serious. This amendment may not have been tabled on so many pages and does not affect the subject in its width, but let me tell you that it would be interesting for me to take the trouble sometimes, the annual accounts of the educational institutions can be found in the annual accounts of the municipalities, and it may be interesting to look at it from time to time. [[17.10]] I would recommend that you read these reports sometimes, regardless of which settlement's report. It may also be interesting to read the annual accounts of the Fidesz settlements, where, say, the public education institutions of the settlements under Fidesz leadership have a report. Interesting things can be found there, very, very much criticism of the current system. From there, I promise you, for the next session, I'll be looking at you and bringing you some. There really is, believe me, the leaders of educational institutions in the settlements describe what is wrong with the system, and believe me, they honestly describe it in the annual accounts. If you don't believe us and, say, Agnes Kunhalmi, then at least believe them what's wrong with the current education system. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Teleki of the MSZP Group will be able to give a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-207	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In fact, I asked for the floor because last week, just on Saturday, the municipal leaders and mayors of the Mura settlements asked me to meet them, because their problem is that they cannot take the kindergarten fully. It is part of public education, but they receive so little funding that they cannot compensate their budgets for wages and maintenance. That's why you can wave, but you should check with the mayors. Their suggestion was to look into what could be done to prevent the municipalities from giving up their kindergarten. I've reached out to the spokespersons, their president, to find out what's going on with this question. He also said that this question was not solved, that the national kindergarten, and that where there is a school, the schooling should be treated. As a result, my question is whether you want to address this issue by giving more empathy, more attention to local authorities and at least respecting the forms of conciliation. Because the municipal representatives and mayors who contacted me did so because they miss that they cannot communicate with the government properly, and so they can fall into a situation that they do not want, which means that kindergartens should be closed. They talked about wages that they cannot farm and talked about maintenance, so two costs that definitely affect their settlement. It's no secret, by the way, I'm going to say it out loud and on the record, it was the town of Murakeresztúr, the town of Fiteház, where you have to ask the mayors what the problem is. If you have told me, I would like to tell you, too, although I have had the reaction that you cannot communicate with the government because you do not understand the gravity of this problem; because of the Croatian settlements, where for several decades the kindergartening, the maintenance of the school has not been a problem, but now it is a big problem. Therefore, in their defence and in their interest, I would like to ask what percentage of these municipalities will receive in order to maintain kindergartens and, if there is a school, schools. This is very important, I think, for the country, because you must know, and you know it, that besides education, there is quite a lot of professional work going on in the Croatian settlements, the preservation of language, the preservation of tradition and culture. I am talking about them now, but it is also possible to talk about the German, or about other institutions with minority self-government reservations, it is a very important activity. You have said and said many times that nationalities have to give a lot of things, so it is important to examine this issue from this aspect, too, what will happen to the situation of national nursery schools in the next period, and the municipalities, where there are still kindergartens, will receive support from you, help to continue operating and maintaining them. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not continue to comment on the story, but I would like to acknowledge that my fellow Member Kucsák has reached the point in second round that he has gained a positive wording for being a small industrialist, and that he is very fond of this kind of sign for himself. It is not a problem, my fellow Member, that an application of a law is being tabled by the Member as an individual motion, because he has the right to do so. But there is a problem with the government, not wanting to push this on this bill, but on the draft laws of greater severity, that is basically how the government avoids social consultation, practically everything that should necessarily be done in relation to these matters. The other thing I would like to mention is that I would like to ask Mrs Secretary of State with great respect not to end by saying three sentences, five or twelve in relation to the issues that may arise, but to be involved in the debate. It would be nice to know why vocational training institutions are excluded from the previous governance interface. It would be good to know what impact assessments were in the background, which established all this change. It would be good to know what reasonable arguments have triggered this process, if there are such reasonable arguments that have brought my fellow Member to this point to present such a proposal, with which, naturally, I believe, the government is identifying itself. So it would be good if we could talk about this and not just listen to the smarts, so to speak, in terms of closing thoughts. Thank you very much. I hope he does.
u2015-02-20-210	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the notary that, at the beginning of your speech, the Secretary of State asked for a word, but at that time I did not want to prevent you from saying your two minutes. So it's time for the secretary of state. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not want to abuse the time of my fellow Members, and I would really like to comment in accordance with the dignity of the case and public education. Yet let my fellow Member Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, allow a man who was on the side of the cathedra against whom children sat, to signal with his facial vibrations. It's normal in a classroom or in a test situation to send a message or a message to the student with his face. I apologize for having such natural movements when, let's say, I hear strange things that have no thank-you relationship to the proposal or reality. Such facial excursions may have been seen by my fellow Member when I heard Ágnes Kunhalmi mention the problem of public education institutions, which were rooted in quite a few earlier days. I must admit that I would have been pleased to have heard you say these problems so loudly and loudly from socialist education ministers or from socialist education management professionals. Indeed, a number of questions should have been answered at the time, and we should not have reached out to the device after 2010-11, which tries to create a chance through a single maintenance system, tries to drop out, tries to address catch-up questions and tries to answer the content of public education in terms of the future. It would have been good if these concerns, these loud words, had been said when the public education system, the rural schools, were being dismantled, when schools were being shut down in the countryside, when the local government budget chapter in 2006 was being taken away from the maintenance standards of the municipalities. I would have been happy to hear these active and truly powerful contributions from you back then. Then my face really shakes... [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: He was not a congressman!]] But he was an active member of the MSZP, and I think our fellow Member would have been able to form an opinion in this way even then. My face was shivered, or indeed my forehead was shuddered, when, with regard to the request for data on operation, which means, in practice, information relating to the budget closure of the Ministry of Interior and the municipalities in accordance with the rules of public finances, any extended data request that would affect personal data was made in a visual manner. I would inform you that if you clicked on the Public Finance Act and clicked on its corresponding sections, you would know what data is recorded, stored, applied and managed by the local government or the Hungarian Treasury, or any central government body that may or may pose a question in connection with this, let's say, public education law section concerning the deadline amendment. [[17.20]] In some cases, I understand, of course, that when the opportunity and opportunity arise, the panels must be drawn up and the communication panel factories must be put in motion again and there must be general criticisms. We are not closing this, because it is true: the general debate gives us the opportunity to talk about the system of public education in a slightly broader context. Therefore, if I may, Mr Gur, my fellow Member, I would reassure him that the process concerning vocational training that you are talking about requires legislative amendments; there will be plenty of ways for him to comment on the amendments to the law on public education and, obviously, to take part in his normal parliamentary debate and debate in the Commission on vocational training and vocational training. This section is indeed a decision that can be taken six months after the municipal elections, which has provided the municipalities with the possibility to do so before, and which remains after the establishment of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre in respect of the right of operation. This signal, the deadline for this announcement, is being amended as proposed by my fellow Member Kucsák - that is all, and that is nothing more. In addition, in line with all the amendments to the law, since on 1 January the rules and regulations for operation between the local government and the KLIK were amended, let us say that rules and simplified rules were clarified, the regulations and regulations for operation and maintenance were clarified. I think that this also justifies the fact that a clear picture of a June deadline after the local government closing account, which is also linked to the time limit for the restructuring decisions contained in the Public Education Act, so with the coexistence of these two, I think that the implementation of these municipal intentions can be ensured. On the other hand, let me say that this is not a matter of binding force, as it has also been said in the comments of my colleague Ágnes Kunhalmi that the municipalities will no longer have the right to do so. This was an opportunity, and it will remain an option in the Public Education Act later, it is written quite precisely in the general and detailed justification of the law submitted by my fellow Member, that it is there as an opportunity for settlements above 3 thousand and, in the case of settlements under 3 thousand, as a positive opportunity, if you want it, you can take over its operation. I do not think that mass logins are expected here, so the concerns that concern, say, administration concerns, are less justified in my reading, knowing the practice of these transfer transfer protocols. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore think that, returning to the individual motion amending the Public Education Act, I would like to propose that this deadline be extended on the basis of the decision of the local authorities on the grounds of the transfer-taking and the strengthening of the right to operate, and I would really like to ask you with respect that this topic and the freedom of the local authorities in this decision deserve a little more dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-212	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. A proper speech will be followed by Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi, representing the MSZP.
u2015-02-20-213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam State Secretary, we agree that education should only be dignified and believe me, if I had the opportunity in the country, if there was a first chance to establish a national minimum in Hungary, it would be a question of the school system. And that is exactly the problem, because until 2010, we sought together right- and left-wing governments, in which there was consensus in Hungary that we needed a modern, European, constantly changing education system focused on children, which is open and democratic [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] That's what we've been trying to do. We weren't perfect in everything, we couldn't solve a lot of things, but in many areas very good processes started, and what was the achievements of the first Orbán government, we defended it, and there was much more professional and civil consultation even during the first Orbán government. Understand this, that after 2010, everything fell apart and they gave up not only the poor children who were excluded from the system (Dr. László Pósán intervenes) But even middle-class kids don't get that ability because they buy knowledge outside. (Dr. László Pósán intervenes.) And you should know this precisely, because if you could still have a meaningful dialogue with someone (Dr. László Pósán intervenes.) That was you, you were one of the congressmen. I would like to say, for the record, that the socialist government has not closed any school, it has been closed by local governments. [[Defiance in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]] But I ask you, how many of you... no, let's not be half-hearted, how many of you have opened? And if we started tearing down the schools, I have to say, you put the entire education system on ice. In the last 20 seconds, I'd like to tell you... [[Interjection: Normal comment!]] Yeah, normal. Very good. So, back to the original subject, just to calm you down, Mr. Kucsák said that parents are not affected by any narrowing down, in the same way, so the school community will continue to have access to information, they will find a solution to their problems, won't they? Nod, my dear fellow Member, if you have said that this is still the case in the school system. [[László Kucsák nods slowly. Defiance.]] I've nodded, thank you. The problem is, that's not true. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So, in vain, my fellow Member nodded - [[To László Kucsák:]] Don't be so forgiving to an opposition representative, I expect a lot more discipline from you. [[Dr. Judit Bertalan Czunyiné: What is this?]] Once again, in your own paradigm, at least preserve your own will, if you are so far past our proposals. The problem today is that if any problems arise in the life of a school, not just a lack of resources, a technical problem, a conflict to be solved, then what happens? In your modified system, the parent turns to the director or teacher, the teacher looks at the director, the principal looks at the head of the district, the district manager looks at the head of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center, the secretary of state, the secretary of state, the minister of state, and the prime minister, what kind of cadaver education he should still be doing. It's not working! There's no law and obligation normally assigned to each other, they want to settle all conflicts by law, the teachers don't dare to decide, the schools have no independent free will, the directors have been demoted. Understand, in a country where local authorities cannot run a normal school system with residents, they will not be able to decide anywhere else and will be vulnerable. That's exactly our problem with nationalization. Earlier, a voter in a given settlement voted not only to have the mayor take the school's page, but also to have an IT lab at that school, because if he didn't implement it or lobby it, he might have been replaced. This was not the case in all settlements, of course, I do not say so, but in a democratic Hungary, the foundations of this began 25 years after the change of regime in the school system. As the maintenance of the school today, as there is a culture in the settlements, such as the culture in the classrooms, Hungary will be tomorrow. And you know, Madam Secretary, you've come to consolidate this system because the former Secretary of State has failed badly. Not only from the opposition side, but also from democratic right-wing voices. In this, we should return to the system that was before 2010, and I would ask for your support. Believe me, they cannot hear from us one speech or criticism that would not have been constructive. We are talking about our children, who are going to be craftsmen, and, going back to vocational training, one more sentence: - small-scale or not, do not create a vocational training system with a cadár system, because what you have done, I could list its elements, it would not have been enough in the Kádár system. Today, in the modern world, I cannot accept that during a vocational training debate, one of the fidesz congressmen yells, "What's for mechanics, just a screwdriver?" They don't believe that today they're installing certain western-type cars, not Trabants. And I don't accept that it's for a beautician only women who want to be beautiful, because it's also in one of the reports, because it's spoken from the mouths of the Members. The world is changing around us, Hungary has to adapt to it. It is not possible to close the blinds at national borders, to do an anti-democratic school, to adapt teachers, parents and politics to the modern environment in which Hungary has to manage, and this is the basis of our school system. Please cooperate in this and help us. Thank you. [[17 .30]]
u2015-02-20-214	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I would like to address Mrs Dóra Dúró, from the Jobbik Group.
u2015-02-20-215	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, First, I'd like to respond to some of Agnes Kunhalmi's statements. So when you speak as a socialist representative about who has given up on the education of poor children and poor children here, and this is what you accuse the KLIK of its system, if anything is justified, it is to reduce the funding differences between municipalities, and this would otherwise be appropriate for the basis for which the KLIK and the state reservation were established. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: On the way down.]] Another issue is that this cannot and cannot be achieved in this particular implementation. I thought when he started here to analyze who was looking at who, the principal, the head of the school district, until the Prime Minister, I thought that this would end with Putin, that he would run the Hungarian public education and the school principals. [[Defiance. Agnes Kunhalmi: How did you come up with Russia? Based on what reflexes?]] 'Cause it's been mentioned so many times. I really think it is a legitimate criticism that this has been tabled as an individual motion, and I do not object to the person of Mr Kucsák, but it was indeed an interesting situation at the committee meeting when we asked our questions, and Deputy Secretary of State came to the table on his own and answered our questions instead of the rapporteur. Obviously, I have no objection to the fact that if the wallet is at your heart about this motion, but I still think it's very talkative. The fact that the deadline is 15 June and, in relation to the procedure for the transfer and transfer, the Secretary of State here has indicated that there is no mass transfer expected or that these can practically happen on forms, we cannot rest on the basis of the operation of the KLIK so far. So a lot of things you'd think could be done in a week or two with common sense, that KLIK took months. That is why we are proposing that we look at the whole process, because the operation so far does not support the fact that the deadline of 15 June can be reassuring. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-216	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Nándor Gúr is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There was hope when the Secretary of State stood up. At the time, I thought we might have some answers to our questions, but I think the first three minutes of nearly seven minutes of speaking were about what happened at some point in the ancient times. You know, they've been steering for five years, five years. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Not 8.]] You know, this is a period that goes beyond the institutionalisation of vocational training, I could say, you know, and I could say a lot of other things. So we don't have to go that far back, enough for five years, four, three, and look at what happened during this period. To see, let's say, from the source of public education, but even in general within the education system, what the story looks like, how expanded - you feel that this is a bit cynical - the sources in this respect. At a time when one third of it was taken away, for example, from the system of higher education - I know now that it is public education, public education - but then how can you look back only 5 years, 8 years, 12 years ago with such a calm heart? Why don't we talk about this period that's behind our backs, the five years that I can't handle anymore. And the other thing about this half minute is that it would be nice if you really answered the question. So I wasn't curious about you holding an expo about something that wasn't the answer to the questions asked, but I wanted you to answer the questions. My colleague Teleki asked me, and I asked him. I did not ask what laws I would meet at some point, but why, if we are talking about the system of vocational training now, it is to get out of the sky. What does the relationship between Klebelsberg and the vocational training institutions look like, why is this change to be made? So, that's what the questions are about, Madam Secretary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-20-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I don't know how nicely, classically the notary said at the beginning that hope had gone away. I too have lost hope that we can finally get back to the subject that we are dealing with, because I see that in the course of both two-minute and other speeches, we are dealing with a lot of other issues that do not cut here. And since it has a genre for questions and answers, it is a genre of the Parliament, so I respectfully ask everyone to ask the question of the non-themed question. I will now ask this House if anyone else wishes to speak in this debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Kucsák if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[László Kucsák: Yes.]] Yes, he does. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman. I would like to make a statement to Congressman László Kucsák.
u2015-02-20-219	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for taking so much time, and we have planned for the subject of public education. However, I thank my fellow Members who have read the proposal and talked to me, with special appreciation, because, as Mr President mentioned, this would have been the agenda for this discussion. If we had cut off all that we could have heard before, it would have actually been a short and perhaps practical conversation or debate. With due respect, I would like to capacitate to everyone that, if you look at this text, you will see that this is a better-meaning proposal, which gives the municipalities the opportunity to make a declaration, and in a full declaration, we will have absolutely uniform information about which municipalities will stick to the main rule over the next five years, and which municipalities would like to deviate from it. This proposal is aimed at this, a well-intentioned, well-intentioned proposal [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Wrong system.]] I call for the support of all my well-intentioned fellow Members. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-02-20-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that it is possible to submit amendments on Wednesday 25 February at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on higher education until closure. The submission is T/3017. On the parliamentary IT network, it was accessible to everyone. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Mr Secretary of State will give his speech in place. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-221	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Parliament, T/3017 before this House on the amendment of certain laws relating to higher education For the greater part of the bill, the 2011 CXXXII on the National University of Public Service and on administrative, police and military higher education. The Act contains a short cut amendment to the NKE Act. In addition, in the context of the NKE legislative amendment, it is true, in a smaller extent, that the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Act No. Nftv, hereinafter referred to as "Nftv." , and the 1996 XLV on the status of heads, teachers and students of military and law enforcement higher education institutions. Some of the provisions of the Act are also amended. The Hungarian Parliament in 2011 is the XXXVI. founded the National University of Public Service on a proposal from the Government by law. The preamble to the Act set out the basic objectives of standardising previously diverse and partly specific public service training. The accuracy of the goals set at that time has been confirmed in our opinion. In the public service, strengthening vocation and expertise in civil administration, law enforcement, defence and national security services requires coordinated and planned replacement training. In order to ensure effective work for society instead of leaving a career, a system of further training should be implemented to support the public service career model. The uniform institutional foundations for higher education in public services appear to be realised within the framework of the National University of Public Service. [[17.40]] In addition to its role in higher education, the university has also become a general and central institution for further education in recent years. As an integral part of the Hungarian higher education system, but in line with the specific administrative, police, military and national security trainings, the NKE Act was established, which, together with the law on national higher education, provides the necessary legal framework for the operation of the university. This bill, which lies before this House, is the so-called NKE Act, amended in terms of subjects and content in some seven points. I would like to briefly describe these to the honourable Members1. Currently, the NKE Act is a category of administrative higher education, police higher education, military higher education and national security higher education. International and European public service higher education would be added as new ones. This new higher education would mean courses in the area of administrative, police and military training aimed at preparing for the international tasks of the public service and diplomatic tasks.2. The Nftv. According to the Act on Legal Status, the Education Office is obliged to obtain the opinion of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee for Higher Education, commonly known as the MAB, in matters relating to the authorisation of the operation of the higher education institution, the launch of training courses and the establishment of a doctoral school. The legislative proposal does not affect the most important, fundamental area of these matters, matters relating to institutional operating permits. These remain among the sole experts of the MAB. Some areas of the operation of the NKE - this is due to the special purpose and legal status of the university - form an exclusive activity, and other higher education institutions are not entitled to continue in Hungary. According to the bill, it will therefore be possible for NKE's maintenance body to initiate Nftv. According to the MAB, in certain matters falling within the exclusive competence of its experts, such as administrative, police, military, national security and international and European public service higher education courses and the establishment of a doctoral school, a foreign organisation shall act as a full member of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education. Thus, the use of a foreign organisation is only an additional option, it is not compulsory to use it, as the main rule is that the MAB continues to act in these cases. 3. At the moment, the NKE Act records the exact composition of the Senate at the university. Practical experience has shown that legislation at law level is too rigid to regulate, slow to convey changes in the institution's structure and maintenance needs. In our opinion, it can be an optimal solution to fix the composition of the Senate in the text of the University of Public Service, based on the strict criteria for proportions in Nftv. So Nftv would appear as a framework law. , but the detailed rules would be fixed in terms of size as an optimal solution. Since certain requirements concerning the rates in Nftv cannot be complied with in the light of the specific characteristics of the university, the special rules of the rates will be laid down in the NKE Act. The provisions of the Status Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to matters not specifically regulated. 4. The Nftv. 40. According to § 2 (2) of the Act, admission to initial education and undivided training is subject to successful completion of the graduation exam, its condition may be a specific level of language knowledge, its condition may be a medical and professional qualification examination, and follows the special nature of the university. In particular, these special trainings require a wider definition of the conditions for admission in the field of military and police higher education. For example, a statement in which the applicant agrees to carry out the national security control necessary for the start of studies or checks on the life of an impeccable person by the competent bodies; a legal relationship to or the establishment of an existing employment relationship with a specific body; an undertaking to conclude a study contract and a few more examples could be mentioned.5. The Nftv. In his view, the Government is authorised to regulate by regulation, inter alia, the training areas, branches and specialties of basic and master's training. In view of the fact that NKE essentially meets the training needs set by the maintainers, Nftv is added. a special rule compared to that of the authorising officer. For administrative, police, military, national security and international and European public service higher education, the basic and master's programmes and the training and output requirements of the courses, as well as the training branches of initial training, shall be established at ministerial level. In this case, the agreement of the four Ministrys of Maintenance, the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice is required to issue the regulation. 6. The Nftv. is added to the special rule on the calculation of the aid time. When calculating the period of support for higher education, it is not necessary to take into account the semester that the student has used in some of the university's trainings, this requirement still exists at the level of government decrees, but due to the change in the legal environment it is justified to appear at the statutory level, as this is the adequate level of legal resources. The special rule is justified by the fact that the re-training of previously graduated public service workers is ensured, thus ensuring interoperability between careers, which is why the National University of Public Service was established so that interoperability in these sectors is as secure as possible. The State will thus ensure the further utilisation of acquired knowledge, such as training persons who may not be able to remain on a military course for health reasons.7. The bill also implements other clarifications arising from changes in the legislative environment. In this context, the annual XLV on the status of leaders, teachers and students of military and law enforcement higher education institutions. Some provisions of the Act are also clarified in the context of the amendment of the Law on the National University of Public Service in order to maintain coherence. In order to achieve the above objectives, honourable Members of Parliament are asked to negotiate and accept the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-222	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The bill before us, I think, basically contains rather technical amendments, although I have questions about one or two. I think it is very right that international and European public service higher education will appear, simplifying, if I understand correctly, this is a move towards Hungarian diplomatic training; I think this is a useful thing. I also understand that they want to extend their scope for accreditation, and in fact this seems to be a very progressive idea at first reading, so that any member of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education should not be competent to do so. Whether it's good or not, that's obviously something to argue about. I can also understand that there are no reservations about the procedure of the MAB in one case, as there are several examples of the fact that certain conditions are actually changing as we go along or at a very fast pace within the MAB, which is not in one case causing serious problems. [[17.50]] The main problem I see is that, frankly, whatever quality assurance organisation we are asking for, it is not certain that progress is taking place, that academic science and a number of areas that are relatively difficult to fit into this circle are that and, as one way or another, they can be grouped together in a common way. The MAB attempted to do so, or even the Hungarian accreditation system. This obviously doesn't work or doesn't work. Obviously, there must be a more differentiated approach, since there are a number of areas where we do not necessarily call for theoretical scientific work, but rather we think of practical skills as material content, whether law enforcement or even military matters. At the same time, I would consider it important, in some way, to include it in the system as a guarantee, either at the level of law or regulation, that, even in the case of the procedure of foreign rating companies, the qualification should take place with regard to Hungarian legal or scientific standards, since without it, there would be virtually a variety of standards available in Hungary. I think that it is not right, but it is not fortunate, so there is work to be done at home on the professional side, and on the other hand on legislation. I don't know what level to do this on right now, I honestly don't know. Maybe there's enough regulation to go around. The requirement should be made so that Hungarian legislation and scientific standards can, after all, constitute a guiding thread. I must be honest with you that the amendment to the composition of the Senate is not particularly justified, as the current law in force also basically lays down a framework, and the institutions themselves, within the scope of the rules of law, determine exactly what their rules of operation will be, and what the composition of the Senate will be. So, from this point of view, you can obviously stay in it, but if you are not involved, there is no problem, because I consider that the current legislative framework provides the same opportunity as what you can read here. Maybe from a beautician point of view, that's a good thing, I admit, I don't know. All the other proposals on which we have read about the proposal, I think that it is technical, for example, that students pay in instalments, and so on. I consider that these would be specific requirements for the normal functioning of the institution on a daily basis, which I believe are eligible, and I believe, in principle, that the whole proposal can be supported overall. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament, is the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-02-20-225	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, We have a law amendment that could be elegant. I am saying this because there are parts that seem to be thrown away from a landlocked reality and present dimensions that can be exemplary not only in Hungary as a higher education institution, but also in Europe or outside Europe, for countries with remote, advanced higher education regions. What's this about? I would like to talk about the point that Mr Secretary of State has just described, like other points. It is well known that in the case of accreditation, the Hungarian Accreditation Committee should not carry out the professional review, examination and decision on this, but, similarly, a recognised member of the European higher education and even quality assurance organisation, and its agents should carry out this accreditation on the basis of European standards. From this point forward, if this is the right answer, then the opposition who objects to it is proud of all pro-governments that we have come to this point, and it could actually be said that this is the direction, this is the right and indeed the international level, and even the Hungarian higher education that takes the international test at all levels. And then you have to get back on the ground and see what really happens. To make it understandable to everyone, once again: the Hungarian Accreditation Committee does not carry out the review in specific areas of the National University of Public Service, but is a European. That's the point of the law amendment. But why? Dear House, Because I have a decision before me, made by the Hungarian Accreditation Committee on 1 February 2013, signed by Ervin Balázs, Chairman of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, which, if I may, I do not fully present, but its essence tells me everything. As a matter of fact, and then I say the text, the quote begins from this point:. The Hungarian Accreditation Committee./IV/1/2/537. Decree No.216 of the National University of Public Service on the Doctoral School of Law Orders No.216. The decision: the Hungarian Accreditation Committee does not accredit the doctoral school with effect from 1 February 2013. After that comes the detailed professional opinion of the rejection, the last two sentences of which I highlight:. The National University of Public Service does not have a degree in police theory, so there is no doctoral school to be completed here. In this respect, the Hungarian Accreditation Committee also found it a concern that the necessary scientific background in the institution should only be ensured by this master's department, and therefore does not support the recognition of the chief degree in law enforcement master's degree as a basis for a doctoral school in law enforcement. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is also known from the story that here the university, its leadership, tried to appeal. This appeal was rejected. Then he turned to the member of the government supervising the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, and that is perfectly all right, in this case to Minister Zoltán Balog, who also did not support the establishment of the doctoral school as a minister. In Hungarian, all Hungarian forms that are mandatory for the accreditation of a Hungarian higher education institution, be it the university of Budapest or a rural college, be it a sub-territorial university or a full-scale university, are still a college, they must pass from time to time by our laws on accreditation by the Hungarian Accreditation Committee through visiting committees, and, on the basis of a proposal from the Visiting Committee, the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, its body, and then the President signing the decision, to accept this accreditation as appropriate by the MAB or not. You can give dozens of examples when the Hungarian Accreditation Committee said that yes and not many times we could say no. In this case, the relevant higher education institution had to make the corrections required by the Hungarian Accreditation Committee under the law. If you made this correction, you could turn to the Hungarian Accreditation Committee. Well, let's see if this happened. Yeah. In 2015, another submission was made. This is in the currently unaccredited phase, but compared to what my higher education staff did, it turns out that the 2012 submission, which was rejected, and the 2015 submission did not make any significant difference in the world. [[18.00]] I have to assume that what was rejected by the Accreditation Committee in 2012 by the above-mentioned decision, which is likely to be said for sure, will also be rejected in 2015 if the opinion of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee is to be sought at all. Because there is another way - because I do not believe that Minister would change his opinion on what he said once in 2012 - that if we do not comply with the law but do another law, then how much easier it is because it is not the qualification of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, but another organisation, an organisation operating according to the above-mentioned criteria, which will do so, does not necessarily apply to this, because the Hungarian law does not apply because the Hungarian Act on Higher Education and the laws may contain only the requirements for the Hungarian Accreditation Committee. I must say, therefore, that instead of elegance, there is nothing more than a new political shameful enterprise tailored to a person. It is about setting up a university, the circumstances of which we have debated a great deal and there is no need to bring it back. But if you've put so much money into infrastructure, training, hiring out teachers, not too little advertising, then at least you're trying to follow the rules you've set yourself, especially if it's about the quality of higher education. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] They think that it will bring anything forward in terms of quality, that once the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, which you have already defined in its composition, and even in the composition of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, the European Accreditation Bodies and the European Association of Quality Assurance Organisations have just challenged the fact that there is so much government overweight that it has withdrawn full membership because it cannot guarantee a complete and neutral decision on the quality, because the number of members appointed by the Government is above 50 percent, and even the government appoints the President. Compared to this, the committee appointed by you, the president appointed by you, out of professional decency, says to try that people, this does not meet the professional criteria, and in a resolution, that you do not support this accreditation. This is what the university is turning to the Minister of Education, a member of the government, who says that my dear man, doesn't meet the standard of professionalism, and I don't sign it as a minister. After all, they do not choose the way that it would be better to correct it, so there may be something in it that if the Accreditation Committee, the member responsible for education of your government, appointed by you, says that this is not a good way to change the content; no, you would rather send a new mole into the system with a new well, and do not do what is most normal, that we are trying to correct a mistake, but ask someone else to say otherwise. In addition, a bill will be submitted to the Hungarian Parliament. The formal explanation of this is that, while we are talking here and listening to the legislative proposal, I am trying to express our opinion, I am not sitting against the Secretary of State responsible for higher education of the Hungarian Government, who, by the way, will not be able to agree with this - assuming his professional experience so far - because I think he is a reasonable person, so he will not be foolish to contradict his own minister in the Hungarian Parliament. Consequently, the law which amends the activities of an institution of higher education in Hungary is not in its right mind to present the representative of theMostrum Ministry of Higher Education, which is also responsible for higher education - there is a State Secretary responsible for higher education in Hungary, and he is also the minister responsible for educational matters in Hungary, and he is not here - but he is asked by the Prime Minister's Office as rapporteur. I would like to ask you, not only that the quality of higher education will not be maintained, but rather that it will be a deep fall, which is indeed a deep blow to higher education after the withdrawal of funding, the restructuring and the disinherited concepts and their replacement. Please tell me that if this law is passed, this is an opportunity adopted by the law: what will they say next to another institution? What if, in a city where there is a great university, and the city's representative is a representative of the respected governing parties, his accreditation has been dropped from the Y discipline to ask for the amendment, because if a discipline, a National University of Public Service with little experience and history compared to a university, can do that because of him, separate from the quality rules of higher education, then a university of hundreds of years should not be able to do it in order to avoid the Hungarian Accreditation Committee. In fact, what if he himself put together a higher education audit body that will control him himself and ask for it in law, because it is a good way to discuss it after all. So, I think it would be right for us to try together to conduct political and professional debates on the quality of Hungarian higher education, on its international embeddedness, according to the best experience and best hope, and we are partners in this now and later, but we do not give our names to this abomination. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-02-20-227	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, the most important point of this amendment is the relationship between the operation of the MAB and the relationship between the National University of Public Service and the MAB, because that is basically what we need to talk about. It is possible to question the different decisions of the MAB, to criticise the operation of the MAB in recent years, and I also believe that the task of a government and of a responsible higher education management is to review the functioning of a body that makes decisions of high importance in the field of higher education, to look at it, to check it regularly, and to propose legislative amendments that are justified on the basis of the experience gained from this operation. This has not happened here, and I can even say that it has not happened here again, even though Congressman Pósán has also said that there are disputes with the MAB in many cases. It would be good if we could deal with these in Parliament or within the framework of the committee, which I would consider to be a sensible debate if we could do so, because it would really be important. You didn't choose this, but you chose to fill the MAB with your own people, the people appointed by you, not to put European embeddedness, the European recognition of the MAB, in jeopardy of its regular membership. If they are able to fill a body with their own people to this extent, I do not understand why they are afraid to leave the university's life to their own university. István Hiller described the real reason for this proposal very well before me. I'm gonna have to fill you in on a few things. It is acceptable that special rules are laid down for these law enforcement, military, national security and public service higher education programmes, and this bill also does so, and I will address them later, because there are also some inaccuracies that I feel we cannot afford in a legislative process. [[18.10]] However, if we open the door to virtually abolishing the authority of the MAB in any department of any higher education institution, we will start on a very dangerous path. If we say that there has been a new discipline in Hungary, which has not been before, there has been no such training - in this case, this is what European public service higher education can be called diplomatic training, but the other disciplines that the law lists are not like this. These trainings have been carried out in Hungary, so the MAB has the opportunity to make an informed decision. And the fact that the decision of the MAB was justified in this case also shows that Zoltán Balog agreed to this decision. So it would be acceptable, I think, if, in the case of accreditation, we called on a European body in areas of science that do not yet have Hungarian professionals who can make appropriate professional decisions on this. But the fact that special rules are laid down regarding the nature of training in police, military and national security training does not mean that they should be excluded from the authority of the MAB. Once again, there is a personal debate behind this amendment, and it is not to advance the operation of the MAB on a comprehensive, professional basis, or to start the courses of the National University of Public Service. Moving on to the Senate's question, it's kind of cuckoo in several parts of the bill, by the way. To the Senate, if I understand correctly - and I would like to add one question to Mr Pósán here - the formation of the Senate of the NKE is, on the one hand, the Nftv. the main rules are laid down there; what is different from the main rule is defined in this law; and otherwise, the third will be created in the Sms of the NKE itself, so we will have to look into three places if we want to know everything about the composition and the exact operation of the Senate of the NKE. It is obvious to me that it is necessary to amend the rules on the Senate so that if a new degree is to be launched, the number of the university, the number of students, the number of teachers will be changed, and this should therefore appear in the Senate. So to open this section, I find this acceptable, but the fact that there are three places to scissor the composition of the Senate of the University is not fortunate. Perhaps it would be better to repeat Nftv. in this law, because, for example, if someone is looking at this law, then the students or members of the trade unions will not appear in the Senate at all. The third thing I would like to get to is a condition for hiring and establishing a student relationship. Most of these are now regulated in a KIM regulation, and there they are even more precisely described in various other regulations, citing regulations as to what the specific conditions can be for a person to be admitted to different courses. What I would like to object to here is that, for example, this law gives us the opportunity to impose, for example, the residence in Hungary or the control of national security. We discussed with the Secretary-General, the Secretary-General of the University, before the debate, and he said that there is no such intention, the explanation is that they would like to include a comprehensive basis in the law, which will then be specified later in lower legislation. I think it is not a guarantee of a rule of law that, at present, the university's management does not intend to prescribe something which, in my view, cannot be justified on a constitutional basis. On the other hand, admission to the university may be subject to a declaration by which the applicant agrees that the competent authorities should carry out a national security check. Where appropriate, a national security check may take up to 60 days, and if the admission is subject to a procedure that may take up to 60 days, it is easy to see that this may also happen if a minor person declares that his national security check is carried out. It would therefore be important to allow the legal representative to make a statement in this case, or in some way to settle in this law, how this control will be carried out in such cases, when it is a minor. These are little things, so the Senate and the conditions for recording. However, I do not consider it justified for the university to require the residence of Hungary in the case of administrative training. The biggest problem is the background to the presentation and the unthinkable opening of the possibility for an institution to come out of the jurisdiction of the MAB and move towards the European Quality Assurance Association. Thus, we cannot support this proposal in this form. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-228	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-02-20-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The proposal we are discussing now seeks to amend the National University of Public Service and the Law on Administrative, Police and Military Higher Education. The most important part of the change is that we would assign a new area of higher education to the National University of Public Service, and this means the courses of administrative, police and military training to carry out the international tasks of the public service and to prepare for diplomatic tasks. They also want to introduce minor changes, such as the composition of the Senate of the University of Public Service. Moreover, the amendment relates to the earlier news that the National University of Public Service will be the base institution for the Hungarian diplomat training. Why does the May Other consider this proposal to be problematic? What does becoming a base administration mean, first? There is already a reference in the law to the fact that certain training courses can be carried out exclusively by the University of Public Service in Hungary. This raises the possibility that NKE will monopolise the new field of training to the university, namely diplomacy and foreign policy. What this means for international studies, international relations, which are usually held at the Faculty of Social Sciences of other universities, is not yet clear. In the future, it may be possible that these courses will be pushed back, either by reducing their funding or by backing up the professionals who are leaving this area in the case of public, administrative and external employment. Secondly, there has been a very worrying procedure in several keynote speakers, as the Hungarian Accreditation Committee is bypassed at the launch of new training courses, as it will be sufficient to obtain the opinion of any full member of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education. Why are they afraid of the MAB? Why are you afraid of the opinion of the MAB during the authorisation procedure? Indeed, how will there be a common standard here? The Senate also wonders why clarification is not being made, since this system is opaque and confusing. Why do you want to make the University of Public Service a base office? After all, there is no particular problem with the quality of the Hungarian diplomat training. International studies, contacts and international farming can only be scored with a much higher than average score, but in addition to the highest recruitment scores, they are also considered strong in other respects, with very high quality training. The interesting question is why the Ministry of Human Resources cannot defend its own positions. How is it that various lobbying interests constantly influence the development of EMMI's policy? Think of the relationship between vocational training and László Parragh, of the particular Hungarian form of dual training, or of the fact that the vocational training institutions will soon be transferred to some newly created maintainer of the Ministry of National Economy. [[18.20]] But we see the same in higher education. A further sign of this is the intention to make a recent amendment to diplomatic trainings. This carries the risk that, if the various lobbyings and external influences are so concentrated in the area, the entire education system will be less controlled than at present. This is not an expression of the flexibility and complex vision required, unfortunately. We think this only because the experience of the previous period shows that if profile cleaning or monopolisation occurs in higher education, it will always result in the strengthening of an ideological element. We believe that it is necessary not to strengthen ideological influence, but to maintain and further strengthen high professional standards in the case of diplomatic training as well as elsewhere. This, in other words, changes to maintain and strengthen standards, is not at all seen in this proposal, which we will not support in the present form. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-02-20-230	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2015-02-20-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to put only one question to the rapporteur about the National University of Public Service, a why. Actually, I'm looking for the answer to number four. It can be found in Section 5. There are ten points, which actually affects students, and one of these ten points is the student's passing through national security checks and impeccable lifestyle checks, which means that he has to go through this to become a student. Why I do not understand this, it is due to the fact that, on the one hand, the National Security Act and, on the other hand, the Professional Law contain these special rules, in this sense it is unnecessary, and, on the other hand, an applicant, a young person entering the system of university education and higher education, does not necessarily achieve or exceed the existence of age when these situations may arise. So, a word like a hundred, I'd like to know what this is about and what it looks like, say, to control an impeccable lifestyle, what that really means. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-20-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A two-minute time frame will be followed by Mr László Pósán, Member of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2015-02-20-233	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to clarify a few things. With regard to the MAB, what Mr Hiller said does not stand up to the fact that there was a legislative amendment in the summer of 2014 that changed the proportions, and there is no government majority in it. This amendment was precisely because, in previous proportions, what the Member said existed and, on the basis of feedback from European quality assurance organisations, this legislative change had to be made. I say this only knowing that when we talk about the subject, at least this should be in mind. Another thing that inevitably struck my mind is that the Hungarian Accreditation Committee is a member of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education. Consequently, if we accept the line of thought that Congressman Hiller said, namely that if he did not comply with the MAB, but he will surely meet with one of the foreigners, then we will also say that the MAB is a member of an international organisation whose all existing external members can be asked at any time, because it will be able to assess something at a lower or lower level than the MAB and nod it. This means that the MAB is the peak of European quality assurance, and everything else is below that. Logically, that would be the result. I don't think that's true. I don't have a problem with having an external rating on my own. I indicated that I was simply missing the part about the fact that, in such a procedure, Hungarian legislation and scientific standards should be respected by the determining organisation - whether the MAB or anyone else - because then there is a kind of comparison basis and a uniform procedural system. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Kovács asked for the floor in a two-minute timeframe. You have the floor.
u2015-02-20-235	Mr President, Dear House, I don't come from higher education, so I don't know it as deep as my fellow Member Hiller or Pósan knows it. I'd like to base it on logic. If what our fellow Member Hiller says is true is that the government has uploaded its own people to the MAB and still hasn't achieved any results in the NKE, then why did he submit his accreditation before the law was amended, why not wait for the law. It doesn't make sense to me. The other is: if, so to speak, the MAB uploaded with its own people does not allow accreditation, then the international, where there are no people of its own, will it be allowed? These are not logical assumptions for me, and I think that the wrong person is the wrong person. Second, Dóra Dúró raised a national security check. Dear Congresswoman, here to simplify, they also form Secret Service personnel. While we prescribe a C-type audit for a document bureau manager, while those who study in special secret service procedures may have to go to Falk Miksa Street, for example, I think it is worth clarifying the living conditions in advance and the conditions that we are going to start with in the future. As for my fellow Member Ikotity's speech: this will not be the base for diplomatic training, there will be diplomatic training elsewhere. Here, on the public administration side, diplomatic training takes place in the public service world, so to speak. I mean, there are, perhaps you know, military attachés who do various activities in the diplomatic corps. Soldiers are trained here at this university, and this procedure is adapted. That's what I wanted to tell you here in chief, not cause a debate.
u2015-02-20-236	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches from its representatives. In the absence of this, I will now close the general debate and ask Mr Secretary of State whether he wishes to close, or whether his previous speech could be considered part of it. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-20-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have no intention of closing. Consider it the previous one in the closing section, but in the upcoming proceedings there will be a longer closure, responding to all questions and questions.
u2015-02-20-238	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Wednesday 25 February at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the restructuring of the regional administration system until closure. The submission was made in T/3115. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-20-239	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The Government established the State Reform Commission in November 2014 in order to implement, inter alia, a programme for the reduction of public bureaucracy, with a particular focus on the renewal of the system of government agencies in the capital and county and the reform of state administration. This is part of a series of measures aimed at creating a genuine State of Service. One of the most important prerequisites for creating a service state is the creation of a citizen-centred public administration. In day-to-day administration, this means that public offices are not under-ordained with the client, but must cooperate and cooperate in co-ordinate relations. [[18.30]] In doing so, the representatives of the Authority are aware that the purpose of their day-to-day work should be to facilitate the handling of clients' affairs. This approach is not compatible with an inappropriate tone so often encountered, irresponsible waste of client time, even an unjustified delay in handling cases, or an increase in procedural costs. At the same time, the primary ground for the establishment of the State of Service should be the territorial administration, where citizens meet the state primarily through the metropolitan and county government offices and district and district offices. At the same time, the design should run in parallel at organisational level to establish a government agency system that is more efficient than today and at procedural level, which should mean a significant rationalisation of government procedures. In order to achieve the first goal, Parliament was presented at the end of last year with the T/ 2329 bill amending certain administrative laws, and the general discussion of this was held at the time. In an organisational sense, this bill ensures that government offices and district and metropolitan district offices become united in terms of tasks and powers after the conversion, and that the mandate and authority are addressed to the government commissioner and the head of the district office. This will ensure that a more efficient, faster response system of government agencies is put in place to ensure that government official resources can be transferred immediately, even in the event of unexpected events, and that urgent tasks can be dealt with in particular. Another important step in the development of a real State of Service is the T/3115 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the restructuring of the regional administration system. Legislative proposal No 1 which contains rules on the significant simplification and conversion of the administrative procedures related to the restructuring of the Governmental Office Organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is well known to many of us that, as a general administrative deadline for administrative procedures, 21 days have already been laid down in the Act on Administrative Procedure instead of 30 days. In practice, however, the actual duration of many procedures is much longer, since the administrative deadline does not include, for example, the duration of the administrative procedure, the suspension of the procedure, the duration of the legal aid procedure, or the appointment of the determining authority, the preparation of expert opinions, so that only a few examples are listed in the administrative procedural law, commonly known as the Ket. 33. Paragraph 3 of this Article. In other words, as we say, the gross procedural period may be several times more than the general procedural time limit, especially with regard to some lengthy, even energy-professional, environmental procedures. At the same time, it is often said that, in order to change the time span of procedures that impose self-absorbed regulations, which impose sectoral interests, the administrative procedures will be adapted in the procedures where the determining authority will be the Budapest and County Government Office or the district and district office. In the same procedure after integration, the administration would be any government office or district office. The transformation of the administrative procedures includes both the current administrative bodies operating within the government agency organisation system and environmental, nature protection and mining offices that are integrated from the outside, as well as other tasks to be carried out at the government offices. In the absence of a first-degree administrative procedure in these cases, second-level administrative procedures will be terminated in the future, while the administrative procedures will be maintained if the non-governmental body acts on the relevant issue, or if an external body outside the metropolitan and county government office acts, such as a notary or a water management board. The Government Office should act as a administrative authority in the proceedings of this body. This means that not only professional procedures can come in from outside, but also sometimes the government office itself appears as a professional body with another determining authority. However, it must be stressed that the changes do not affect the criteria set out in the substantive rules. That is to say, in the course of the official procedure, all the issues which have been clarified as administrative authorities and contributors should be clarified as a matter of expertise. This means that the professional aspects that have previously been examined by administrative authorities, such as heritage protection, will continue to be examined as a special issue and specific provisions on these issues should be laid down in the decisions of the metropolitan and county government offices and district offices. The liquidation of the current system within the government office will have a number of advantages for citizens and customers. On the one hand, the administrative burden will be reduced as cases can be dealt with by customers in an integrated and uniform manner. The order system will be clear and clear, and a more complex case involving more than one authority will be considerably simplified. The complex procedure between the administrative authorities is replaced by a simple transparent procedure, which is therefore more manageable and optimizable, within the organisation. Thus, there is every hope that administrative times will be significantly reduced. After all, the administrative procedures that used to live for an independent life will then be dealt with in an integrated manner, there will be no possibility for individual authorities to issue separate requests to fill the gap or suspend the procedure. Posting, filing and publication between administrative bodies that have previously been acting on their own shall be eliminated. These will all be part of the internal administration, thus saving or shortening the gross procedural time. For citizens, this gain can be achieved by internal process organisation of government offices and district offices, which has not been possible by the procedural rules stemming from the specificities of the system so far. Of course, sufficient time will be provided for the examination of professional questions, as I have mentioned, for the authorities concerned in the case in question, since the level of professional service still cannot be reduced. A further advantage of the abolition of the administrative system within the government offices is that individual procedural acts can be organised optimized for the specific professional task. Handlers with expertise can be flexibly involved in individual procedures, thereby helping to further develop a customer-friendly public administration. In addition to the above, the adaptation of the administrative system is expected to lead to a reduction in procedural costs, as the tasks related to the examination of specific issues will be further rationalised. This also means that citizens will have to pay, in addition to the charges in the main proceedings, the costs actually incurred in dealing with the issue in question, rather than the administrative service charges previously required in all cases. Thus, administrative service charges will be adapted to the activity. In other words, this also means that customers will pay for the state service actually used. Since not all government offices will have the expertise to decide on all the relevant issues after integration, due to the removal of the administrative procedures, the examination of the professional questions may be carried out on the one hand with the secondment of current experts from government offices, which is the T/3019 on the amendment of certain legal acts. Bill No. 1 will provide. If this is not possible, because deciding on a specialised question requires the use of a specific infrastructure, where appropriate, a laboratory, then the government office which can be appointed as an expert should be established by law, in accordance with the competence area of the administrative body or regional administrative body acting previously. [[18.40]] To be clear, there are authorities of which not all government offices have an administrative body, since, let's say, there are five mining stations, there are no measurement offices in all government offices, and there are only one in every other county. Ladies and gentlemen, The administrative burden of Hungarian customers, whether individuals or businesses, is high in European comparison, and some experts estimate that they can reach HUF 1000 billion annually. This amount, if only businesses are considered, is paid only in many cases because the state rules are complex, over-bureaucratised and unpredictable. If Hungary is to be one of the most business-friendly and competitive countries in the Eastern Central European region, it is necessary to ensure that state regulation is simple, cheap - more precisely, I use the term cost-effective - and predictable. An important part of this is the development of e-government, either from the business side or from the citizens' side. In this respect, it is also a milestone in the technical procedural reform of earlier costly and lengthy procedures, which I have just mentioned. While the bill before you is taking this transformation only through the government agency system for the time being, the experience of this transformation can also help to ensure that the regulation of the entire administrative procedure can be renewed and significantly simplified as soon as possible. The Ministry of Justice is mobilising serious forces to draft this legislation. With all these changes, we can ensure that the State of service for citizens can actually be implemented, and to this end we must ensure the operating conditions of a legitimate and transparent public administration that fully fulfils its public service tasks. To do this, I call for the support of honourable Members and the discussion of the bill tabled. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-02-20-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief comment on the bill before us. In mid-February, the Government presented the proposal that we are discussing, which aims at amending certain administrative laws. The Government has already stated in the National Cooperation Programme its intention to abolish the legacy of unsuccessful government in the period prior to 2010 and to re-establish the functioning of the State. Offices operating as a regional body of general competence, previously administrative offices, may be among the most reorganized agencies in the Hungarian administration system. However, pre-2010 experiments have always failed in practice. However, as of 1 September 2010, the metropolitan and county administration authorities have received a strong mandate to coordinate the activities of the regional government in which the operational integration of the territorial government has already been achieved. In view of this, the government's fundamental intention is to create a good state, the means of which are to radically reform public administration, modernise it and create a real State of Service. The aim is therefore to create a public administration that focuses on citizens and businesses instead of documents and documents, instead of complex regulatory requirements, on administrative services, in short: the good state. That is why we have started to rationalise and change the structure of the public administration. In the course of the domestic history of parliamentary democracies, there has been no such change on this scale. The government considers the reorganisation and rationalisation of public administration to be an important goal, which is necessary because well-functioning, simple and legal administration is a very important condition for citizens, one of the conditions for recovery of the economy. On the basis of this bill, the government's priority objective is to increase the efficiency of public administration in the framework of the State Reform Programme, more closely and more closely than ever. It also aims to create a cost-effective territorial administration, thereby achieving the efficiency and effectiveness of the government's territorial responsibility. The primary objective of the reform of the public administration is to create a friendly public administration, to ensure the freedom of society to act in the public interest.2011. On 1 January 2004, the establishment of metropolitan and county government offices significantly reduced the territorial fragmentation of the previous period. A single, transparent budget has been set up to ensure that economical government administration is implemented. For citizens, the establishment of government offices has made the administration of a number of official procedures much faster and simpler, especially by building government windows at county and then gradually district and district level. On the basis of this bill, the reform of the territorial administration is expected to accelerate the administration of procedures, which will not be achieved by reducing the average administrative time, but by reducing the administrative period, which is gross, as Mr. State Secretary said here. The proposal contains the necessary amendments to this legislative aspect in the context of certain official procedures. With the importance of all this, I think we all agree, because this is in the common interest of the country. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2015-02-20-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-02-20-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was 8 December 2014 when the bill No 2329 amending certain administrative laws was tabled. The debate was held by the House on 16 December. We were not happy at the time, nor were we happy at the end of the debate, but, above all, at the bottom of the draft law. The intention that the government launched practically as of January 2011 is tangible, i.e. to integrate regional government administrations, practically to integrate into government offices in the county or capital. It is now on 1 March 2015 that this date has been set for you as long as you want to settle this issue, i.e. within the framework of the laws on administrative matters of 2329. The trouble was there, in my judgement and opinion, that the preparation had already been one for which the government had practically not made any special consultations, and the reference to the consultation on its official website was not, to my knowledge, mentioned on the official website. But, Mr. Secretary, if you have anything better to say to us, we'd be happy to do that. The other problem was what basically affected the content issues, that in all its parts he practically suggested that he wanted to centralize. They want to centralise, but this centralisation is a type of centralization that is coupled with political motivation and political interests. [[18.50]] At a time when the measure of political activity, political responsibility, is about how and how, let us say, the head of the government office to the Prime Minister, because he is the one who plays the role of political supervisor, I think there is a problem, there is a problem, because then the government office does not operate or function in a professional way. I see it differently than the Secretary of State, and I am at the risk of facing a multitude of delays here, not rationalising and saving time for all that has happened in this respect. Once again, I would like to stress that not professional, rational considerations, but political considerations, were the basis for all that was combined with the submission of this Law No 2329, which is an integral co-existence with the bill No 3115, i.e. the reform of the system of regional administration that we are discussing. If we do not approach from anywhere else, only from the fact that, at the moment, environmental protection, nature control, mining, the Hungarian Treasury, family support procedures will be effectively removed from the county level - my colleague Korózs will also break out the maladministration of this - the Immigration and Nationality Office, some of the tasks of the National Health Insurance Fund at the territorial level will be transferred to the government office, and practically the state's main building tasks will be integrated into the government office, then we can see what changes are about. In the same way, I think that, in addition to the above-mentioned draft law, it is not right, that once again, only impact assessments, various, I do not say that they are variations, but without ideas and, above all, once again, I stress that this process is taking place without consultation. It is not good, even because if the Secretary of State looks back at the 2013 accounts - I mention this as an example - then you can see and know what the situation was in the case of government offices at the time. One was that the government offices were in a position to meet their payment obligations, which were otherwise required by the budget, in order to ensure their operating conditions; I no longer want to talk about the fact that, by the way, a mere one-third of the assets underlying the work in government offices were accompanied by a zero equivalent register. I just want to say that it is not enough to bring something into the framework of integration organisationally, but also to strengthen the background there, and I think that this is essential. What can be seen as a positive aspect of today's draft law, however, is that when we discussed last time in December, there was a Fidesz MEP sitting in front of the opposition in the pro-government benches, if I remember correctly, János Pócs was the one Member, I may be able to count the number of Members on my one hand now, outside of the Secretary of State, but the discussion of today's draft is of greater interest. Then the Secretary of State, again, if I remember correctly, I believe that Secretary of State Czibere was present at the trial of the law, with the generosity of saying what he had said in his pocket, when we came to power, he said. I would also like to point out to Mr Zoltán Kovács that I do not think that the State of Service should be paired with the title "We are in power" but with how and how we will help and try to create the conditions that will benefit people. But if we want to talk about the state of the service provider, we can also talk about the National Tax and Customs Office, the National Tax and Customs Office in which, let us say, as a kind of service, if you want to take action against an undertaking, you can and will do so, and the company, if you appeal against it, does not matter what you do, whatever you do, you can do with it, put it in a quotation mark, or even the asset park at the company's disposal, if that is the case, can be taken away, which means that the employees are forced to let go, and then two years later, as a result of the appeal, the company will be right, and win, yeah, only the market has ceased, yeah, of course, that some other friendly company may take over that market area. Now, this shows a picture of a state of service, just a picture of a different state of service, a picture of a state of service to friends. So, I don't want to confirm that. I would also ask the Secretary of State that any type of regulation that is not, in practice, in the interests of people and not of businesses is removed from this type of public service provider, so that professional reasoning is the guiding principle and not political consideration is the guiding principle of their activities, I would like to use it to indicate and ask. With regard to the restructuring of the regional administration system, as I mentioned, a lot of everyone will be integrated. Technically, this integration is my belief that it will cause many problems and problems. If I am to say it as an introductory thought, then 22 sectoral laws should be amended at the moment and at the present time. But if I want to draw closer to the matter in terms of substance, I must say that, in addition to what I have mentioned, the main Architectural tasks will also be placed within the framework of the Government Office, for example - and I think my fellow Members Korózs will also talk about this further - the regulatory system, which you have so often mentioned, coupled with the arrangement of the living environment, will be repealed in respect of active-age recipients, because now the district offices will include issues relating to the provision of active-age care. So, you know, what I don't understand, Mr. Secretary, is that if there's something important to you, then why do you change it in a different way and in a different way, why don't you do it openly and clearly? Or, I told you, the equity care pension will be terminated by the end of March 2015, if I remember correctly, maybe by the 1st. The point is that practically people who receive a care fee received, and then the municipality, if there is a way and opportunity to finance this activity, can benefit, for example, from health care services. Because if the local government is the minimum pension, let's say, 80 percent of this person, and not what it used to be, but less, then these people are out of the health care system. Is this the state of service, Mr. Secretary? I don't think that's possible. Or is the existence of a State of Service where, in the case of investments considered to be of national importance, a lot of procedural methods can be avoided, and they do not need to be carried out? This may be a very important task for the Buda Castle for the coming period, but I do not think that this is a state of service. This is about satisfying partial interests, and this is very, very much in my sense of values! - it's not right. But in the same law, I can also say that in terms of preparation similar hiatus can be drawn up as regards the previously mentioned law, which works in accordance with this law, and obviously excuses can also be made in terms of content issues. I'll give you a few more examples, just so you have something to answer on the way, and not just a summary in the end. It was incomprehensible to me when, in the past, a regulatory system was put in place that a doctor who could establish incapacity for work could do so retroactively for 30 days, along with the availability of certain documentation, for 30 days, and now they are doing the counter-regulation of this, that it is no longer possible and that it does not have to be done. [[19.00]] One of your buddies is satisfied with his needs now, and from now on, no one else needs to be satisfied, so you're creating this kind of change within the framework of the State of Service? So, in some way, I see that within the framework of these giga-mega, mega-giga - anyway - there is a kind of administrative chaos. If I wanted to use nasty words, quote them, then I could call all that we're going to do in this respect a country destruction. But I'll give you one more specific example of the existence of the State of Service and in conjunction with the bill. National employment offices have been decommissioned in the name of the State of supply, practically grounded, shut down, the network of labour centres has been crushed. The State that provides services is the State which practically does not provide a third of the sum of the contributions paid by employers and employees to the amount of HUF 200 billion, unlike the previous one, that the people who lost their jobs could obtain the financial resources and grants they had previously obtained. Compared to the previous HUF 180 billion, there are now fifty-fifty billion forints in the budget. Is this the service state? I would just like to say, and I stress this part of the matter because it is professionalism that is distiled in terms of getting within the framework of a mega or giga organisation, professionalism that is desolating, and that type of service activity that is taking place, coupled with the fulfilment of political intentions. What it's all about is that if you want to fool people, you can produce statistics that you want, see a lot of statistics that fit into employment policy, and you think that's okay with the story. So, if the last sentences are to be formulated in this story, I would like to suggest that, in addition to the important issues that my fellow Members are going to touch on, perhaps one question should be taken into account, and that is that any organizational mergers, integrations, professionalism is not wanted to be lyed out. Whatever kind of mergers, integrations they do, they do not want to meet the needs of politics and make them meet the multitude of professional actors! This is the construction of a distorted world, not this path! Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-244	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-02-20-245	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The proposal before us is yet another step in what the government calls the creation of a good state, but it is releasing on many points, and we have a number of comments on the proposal before us which is not exactly positive, and we are not skeptical because of the principles formulated, because the principles are beautiful. Of course, we would also like to see that if the state were a service state in Hungary, we can see that bureaucracy is unbearable and that, compared to Western countries, an entrepreneur or individual has to fill out an amazing amount of paper or be associated with an amazing amount of documents or an amazing amount of authority if he wants to handle certain matters. It is also true that in many cases in the West, for example, there is no need for a procedure or the consent of the authorities for a certain activity. Unfortunately, we have been able to create an over-bureaucratized system, although in the West things don't work well because everything is definitely written in letters, but they have to comply better with the principle of law, and the authorities are always able to figure out how to punish those who are in fact breaking the law, rather than punishing law-abiding citizens for any procedure or conduct that may not be up to a hundred percent of the letter of the law. Mr Secretary of State used words in his head that the transformation, which will integrate additional administrative authorities into government offices, will create a more manageable system, the administrative authorities will not be so independent, they will know which direction to stand in, a clear system will be created. Now, this, as I have said, may sound good if this really were for the benefit of the people, but what we have to see is that in many cases the need for regional offices and district offices to deal quickly with a particular matter not only from the point of view of citizens but also, where appropriate, of entrepreneurial friends. We have been critical of the government mandate system so many times, because it is not good to have political commissaries at the head of the offices, and these positions should be regarded as such, since active Members of Parliament or Fidesz-KDNP politicians have been appointed to the head of these offices. So it would be difficult to say that there were only technical issues dominated in this case, and indeed, that investments of major importance to the national economy are also subject to them, so let us not really think that only investments that are indeed high or objective in terms of the national economy can be taken into account here, but that may often be the government's pleasure. Well, these procedures can also be pumped through the system quickly and without resistance. By the way, at the time when the Socialists introduced this system, the system of investments of major importance for the national economy and the possibility that they could be accepted in an accelerated procedure and that certain rules could be set in parentheses, you were the ones who opposed it the most. Well, these rules weren't abolished after 2010, but unfortunately they were not only kept, but they are trying to expand, which is also painful in the case that Fidesz-KDNP was the one who criticized this system at the time. So we can also interpret the one-gate system from the point of view that if an entrepreneur may - I do not say that this is what happens in every case, but if, let us say, he has a good knowledge at the head of a government office, which is quite common in Hungary, unfortunately, based on the experience of the past 25 years, he can arrange everything in a one-gate system, so to speak, and there will be no disruption to the environmental office, or even the mining offices or other authorities. The boss will call you off, and all the authorities will take care of these matters for him. And that's not necessarily good. So this could open up a one-gate system of corruption, or open up the possibility. Unfortunately, we are not there yet in the fight against corruption so that it can be said that we are opening this system for the benefit of citizens, but there will be no abuse, because we have not heard in Hungary that public money has disappeared. And since I have already talked about this system, I have brought up investments of major importance from the national economy point of view, then this proposal, which is being tabled, envisages a seemingly minor amendment, removes a word of "advantage" from the current law, which means that so far this priority status may have been applied to administrative licensing procedures. Now, in the future, if this is deleted, it can be extended to any administrative authority case, and in the detailed justification of the bill, we simply cannot find the reason why. For me, it is not convincing to think that this is good, because then in the future, the cases that have not yet been in place or could not be dealt with at high speed, which were not subject to authorisation, then the possibility of putting aside the general rules in these cases is now open. We would have waited here for a more detailed statement, an impact assessment, because we don't usually see it, but at least a detailed explanation of the detailed explanation of what matters it relates to. Now, in fact, in the future, everything can be placed in parentheses, and a government decision is enough, and then, say, the head of a regional government office or a government commissioner, and then all the administrative and licensing procedures of a particular case can be arranged with a pen stroke? [[19.10]] Because, unfortunately, we are opening up the possibility of this, and, as I said, there are no conditions in Hungary that allow us to fill out a blank cheque. The painful lesson or conclusion of Jobbik's opinion is that, unfortunately, you are overstepping the socialist government that introduced this regulation at the time and opening the gates wide enough to which you would have protested most. They used to protest, even for a tenth of that. It could be listed here, of course, and my colleague Lajos Kepli will tell the environmental authority why it is harmful and professionally not good to integrate into a large organisation, a government office, the administrative authorities so far: it will be at the expense of work. Even if they're doing it with the best of intentions. Simply so many administrative tasks, so many professional areas cannot be integrated into large organisations. Even in the case of ministries, there is often a problem with proper professional supervision in so many areas, so even in regional government administrations where there is obviously no more professional or capital force than would otherwise be in the ministries. The state chief architect is also replaced by the metropolitan, county government office and district offices. This is also an area, a sensitive area, as far as construction is concerned. It would have been better if the current legislation had been maintained and this area had not been integrated into government offices. And there is also a point in the proposal that I would like to mention specifically, in addition to the fact that, of course, we cannot support this state of centralization or its further expansion, precisely because we do not see a guarantee that this will be free of abuse, but that is one of the provisions that is falling within the scope that has already been said before me. And there is obviously a reason for this transfer of powers, but so far the legislation which authorised the municipality to require that the applicant or holder of these applications, as a condition for entitlement to care for active age persons, should ensure that the living environment of these applications is in order. This could be cleanliness, hygiene, preservation of consistency. This provision is now excluded from the law, since if the municipalities do not have this power, then, by definition, the municipality will no longer be able to introduce such regulations. I would ask the Secretary of State whether there will be similar regulations, so can we expect in the future, in the case of, say, aid or various resources from the public direction, at least the state will expect to keep the living environment in order if it is taken away from the municipalities. In addition, and this is also included in the provision that does not apply, deadlines were also set for the fact that if one does not do so, he first received a request. It was a five-day deadline, and it was the notary who sent this letter of formal notice, and if he did not do so despite the request, the payment of the amount of regular social assistance could be suspended. In view of rural reality, especially rural reality, but unfortunately, this is an effective provision in many ways, in view of the reality of Budapest, at least to get our fellow countrymen who resort to community resources to maintain their own living environment. If we take power away from the municipalities, or if they cannot impose it in a regulation, then we will be lost, Mr State Secretary, because these provisions will expire; or I think the Secretary of State thinks that the benefits themselves will not be granted by the municipality, then in this case the question arises whether the state will impose similar obligations. We'd like to know if they're gonna bring this back in other passages. We believe that this is necessary, and we believe that if this system changes in this element and we do not consider it a change in the right direction, then we could not support it. Of course, Mr Secretary of State has the opportunity to highlight where this wish may remain in the law. We are very confident that the Secretary of State can explain this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-246	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-02-20-247	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The bill before us is another step in the government's centralization efforts. The trend has already been clear. More and more public administration tasks were taken from the municipalities and transferred to the institutions of the public organisation system. The government's official aim is to create an efficient administration, the state's best possible operation. At the same time, it cannot be overlooked, especially when it comes to the fact that pro-government politicians are at the head of government offices, that the purpose of the whole transformation was not to increase efficiency, but to extend the power of the ruling party to the lower level. During major organizational transformations, we always look at the easiest means to achieve the stated goal, which are the least burdensome. The best way to improve the functioning of public administration is through the development of public administration personnel. It is also more efficient if the processes are well regulated. No progress has been made in these areas over the last five years. Structural change is the most expensive and least efficient tool of all possible instruments. The main problem with the reform of the public administration is that, in the midst of major structural changes, the use of the tools needed to make a meaningful improvement is failing. In the case of government officials, for example, we see that instead of assessing professionalism, knowledge, the highest value has become loyalty, strengthening dependence on superiors, they only grow the central water head. As a result of the continuous development of the territorial administration, there is constant uncertainty, and customers need to continue to learn where to turn with which case. The cost of major transformations is always reflected in the impact of changeovers that hinder effective work, i.e. that almost nothing happens in concrete cases before and after restructuring for six months. All of this will have to be experienced for many years by clients and staff from the offices. According to the Policy, if we really want to create a better public administration, all the instruments available must be used and a complex proposal covering all aspects must be drawn up. Instead, the government changed the basic structure for political reasons, while doing absolutely nothing to correct the errors that have existed so far. But let us specifically address the narrower content of the bill we are discussing here. The essence of this is to put more administrative procedures into the hands of government agencies and in most places to terminate the procedures previously referred to as the administrative authority. They will now be considered an examination of a specific issue within the single administrative procedure, which will be conducted by another department of the same authority, i.e. the government office, within the procedure. In the past, a government decision has been taken on how certain regional government administrations, such as environmental and nature protection supervisors, mining offices, are integrated into the government offices in the capital and county. Some immigration and health insurance matters are included in government offices. [[19.20]] State aid, unemployment, sickness contributions or maternity benefits shall be provided by the State to the general public through district offices. Unfortunately, our experience, especially with regard to the environmental institutional system, is that restructuring almost always undermines the enforcement of the interests represented by the organisation by reducing the autonomy of less important areas for the government. The LMP cannot support any proposal that further reduces the efficiency of the environmental and nature protection institution system. The bill includes, among other things, an amendment to the Priority Investment Act, which seeks to address in part the major concerns expressed by the Ombudsman. Possibly Other Politics considers the whole flagship investment law to be wrong, and we do not consider it acceptable to process it, but it is outrageous that with the amendment further concessions have been granted to the senior investors on several issues. In particular, they are trying to justify the change with the problems raised by the Ombudsman, but in addition to the fact that they are not dealing with it in essence, they are making the situation worse on a further issue. As regards matters of major importance, it has been established that, in the individual government regulations, the legislator stipulated that decisions should be communicated by means of a notice in the course of the procedure, in person, with the exception of orders to customers. However, when examining the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, this was considered problematic for exercising customer rights and ensuring a fundamental right to a fair trial. The proposal does not make a substantive change, but merely states that the poor practice of notifying the decision by means of a notice on matters of priority will then be laid down on a general basis. At the same time, if the decision establishes an obligation for the client or withdraws his or her fundamental right or limits it, the client shall be informed simultaneously by the authority by other means of contact, but its effects are not related to this information but only to the communication by means of a notice. We cannot support this proposal, which is such a fundamental violation of the rights of administrative customers, and create such a serious unequal situation for the benefit of large investors. It is unacceptable that an administrative decision should be notified only by means of a notice. Another amendment to the proposal concerning the Investment Flagship Act is, in our opinion, wrong. It is in no way eligible to extend the simplified procedure for priority investments and to make it possible to be considered as a priority in the case of public authorities related to the implementation of the investment, but not subject to authorisation, and thus to make any administrative matters related to the investment a priority. In view of this, LMP cannot support the bill. Thank you. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-02-20-248	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mrs Anita Heringes, MSZP Group.
u2015-02-20-249	Thank you very much for the floor. The elimination of environmental supervisors would be included in this amendment without pre-empting the effects of melting to government offices. But we're used to that. Environmental and nature protection institutions should be excluded from restructuring due to their specific characteristics. Fortunately, natural laws are the most opposed to government and man's hasty legislation. Fortunately, nature will also resist the centralization of your megalomanic power, but unfortunately, the administrative authorities cannot do so. The authorities that become part of the government office are becoming little authorities because you're demoting these offices. It will be an easy prey for the government commissioner, to whom the Minister or the Prime Minister only has to give one order and it will be decided on a political basis, won't it? The important thing is that there will be no time to make serious decisions, because the authority, the government office, will lose control of the decision, and then the government commissioners and ladies will be in charge of everything, who, as we have seen in Tolna County over the last few weeks, will be able to deal with it during the debate at the gas stations, because there is really only a big mouth. Thank you.
u2015-02-20-250	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, Fidesz Group.
u2015-02-20-251	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for a two-minute speech because what was said on this opposition side of the bill is far from true. I have had the pleasure of running a government office for the past three to four years, and I have met in person with entrepreneurs, people who have rightly been outraged at the state and situation of Hungarian bureaucracy. I tried, and every government commissioner tried to cut red tape, try to transform the role of the state, the state's relationship with the client, so that it would ultimately be a service task. For this purpose, the 19 government offices and the Budapest government offices have also done a good job. The accusation was that politicians were government commissioners. If you like to remember the conflict of interest law, it's not like that anymore. [[Anita Heringes: No, neither is Kálmán Horváth!]] It's not like that at all. Moreover, it was of great importance in the very significant transformation that started from 1 January 2011 that although it was not easy, the kind of thinking that the client was right and that the client was always right had to be passed through the organization. By the way, this is already a common practice in the competition sector, but it did not work in the public administration. This recent transformation, on the other hand, is extremely rational compared to the previous one, and in her speech the Member came up with the Environment Agency, from the point of view of the client, who invests, for example, because it is always opposed to the various authorities, who otherwise belong to different organisations and sectors. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If you'd like to talk to such a company, they'd tell you what their biggest problem has been. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-252	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. In writing, Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group, has applied in advance for a speech. [[Lajos Kepli is preparing to speak, this is indicated by György Szilágyi's hand gesture.]]
u2015-02-20-253	We're just having a debate. I'm sorry, Mr. President, it would have been two minutes. [[Lajos Kepli: No, no, no!]]
u2015-02-20-254	Congressman [[Lajos Korózs: I tried to be polite!]] I made a mistake with a sign because the written statements of the Members of the Council came forward. [[Lajos Korózs: Clear!]] That's why you have the floor.
u2015-02-20-255	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, I do not wish to repeat it, because my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, said our position in his speech to the speaker in December of last year. But moving on to the introduction of the Secretary of State, I would like to add a few unscrupulous sentences, in particular with regard to administrative changes in the social field. In my opinion, another integration is not based on professional rationality, but on political considerations, even though my fellow Member has sworn that those who have been fidesz politicians for decades and are now unable to sit in Parliament because they are at the head of a government office are no longer politicians. This game will have to be played at the gas station most likely. It's well known that the principal lady has brought a mae geri to the head of the government office. The bill before us now introduces these amendments through 22 sectoral laws, as we have already referred to. According to this, in view of the integrated offices, a significant part of the previous administrative procedures will be terminated, instead of a position of the administrative authority, the Government Office will decide on specific issues as part of the administrative procedure. Where this will lead, I can see with my soul, there will be a terrible chaos here in a few months' time. [[19.30]] The changes affect social benefits and family allowances on several points. They may not be particularly noticeable to the client, but no one knows how or when the system will become operational. The establishment and payment of family allowances could be at risk. The first element of the restructuring proposal, submitted in December, has been reported in news that the changeover will not be smooth. I would like to emphasise that this was said by government politicians, so this is not a statement from the air. This may also mean that hundreds of thousands of people may remain without benefits or at least slipping in the payment of benefits, so family allowances, family allowances, children, children, maternity benefits, I do not want to list them all, or payment of disability benefits may be at risk. They are currently dealt with by the Hungarian Treasury, but in the future they will also be transferred to government offices. Despite the haste and maladministration, Minister of the Press has confirmed that the transformation will start from March, and I quote that the aid applications will be accepted at most on paper. Mr Secretary of State, this is the answer to the 21st Amendment. In the first century, in the digital world, that we'll be pushing papers to each other, do they carry them from one office to another office? Moreover, since then it is highly doubtful how this will start in March, since the proposal has already slipped in the process of preparing the law, but the proposal before us would only come into force from April. The special interest is that the TÉBA system was built with more than HUF 1.5 billion of EU funding to facilitate administrative tasks at the Treasury. This is an electronic system containing data from millions of Hungarian citizens. It is not yet known whether they will be able to use this in the new administration system without any problems. Our written question in this regard was answered by Minister János Lázár: preparations are under way for the transformations, which need to be started in order to avoid problems. It also appeared in the press that some subordinates' duties have already changed. At the same time, even if the change was started before the adoption of the regulation, it is not certain that the change will be smooth. We can also remember, I think, that when the State Treasury introduced the new IT system in 2013, there were problems, not small, quite large. Some were only too late to receive their monthly allowance, and now another transformation is coming in two years from now. I would just like to remind this House that, more than a thousand days ago, I have addressed eight questions to the public administration bodies regarding the establishment of invalid pensions and the reviews, and I have not yet received one answer. Over a thousand days! And they were very simple questions; for example, do they have the right IT system, have the IT systems conflicted with each other, in Hungarian, can they decode the information they received. I asked the time between the review and the decision, the time between the date of the decision and the start of the payment, and to this day no one has been able to give a meaningful answer, more than a thousand days. Some think that, continuing my opinion on the law, the primary reason for this transformation is the uploading of the organisation under the Minister's control with so-called content, which justifies its existence. Well, a minister shouldn't let that get out of his hands, I mean, a sentence like that. Other sources, which are more suspicious, paint a much more gloomy picture: they believe that redeployment is intended to facilitate the implementation of political orders, such as issuing permits. Either way, it is certainly interesting - although I think it is not unique - in this story, that they will enter into a transformation without the law being adopted or proclaimed. As if a proposal were already a valid regulation. This says a lot about how the government views Parliament, democracy and the rule of law. Dear House, Let's say it's good what they're planning. Let's say there's no evil behind it, and there's no ulterior motive. Then tell me why it is not possible to properly prepare, accept and allow an appropriate set-up period for this significant transformation involving millions of customers and tens of thousands of employees, government officials. Why? It's not that complicated. You know, government is exactly the area of government, control, which you always have to touch. I am not saying that there is no right for such a measure, because it must always be touched, because times change, procedures change, people change problems, the development of IT systems, knowledge, a lot of things can rewrite them, new knowledge can rewrite them. But it takes time to deal with them. Let us look at another proposal: my fellow Member, Nándor Gúr, has already referred to it. The amendment of the social law concerns the regulation on the establishment of public health care. Looks like this is also due to the transformation. We'll see, let's hope it doesn't become a problem. However, the proposal is much more interesting in relation to the Fair Care Fee. This afternoon, I was the one who interpelled on this issue to the Secretary of State, as a number of forms of support will cease on 1 March. According to the government, this will be replaced by so-called municipal aid. This may sometimes replace former care depending on municipal regulations. However, there will no longer be any legal guarantee as to how and in what amount to determine this. We could bring up a lot of problems about restructuring aid, but I do not want to go into detail here, but here it is worth highlighting one point, which is also mentioned in the bill. So far, who has received an equity care fee, as my fellow Member Gú mentioned, was also entitled to health care, so we could say that he had social security, although now there is no social security under the Fundamental Law in Hungary, but we call it social security, and in the future this care will cease. Why is that? Because if only 80 percent of the minimum pension is available to a local government who has been in need of care so far and has received it, then it will not be entitled to use virtually health care - it will not be possible! It is also worth saying a few words about medical cash benefits, which have also been transferred to government offices from OEP. I would like to address the regulation of sick leave for a few sentences. Changing the sanction on the regulation of sick pay means, at least, if I understand correctly, that in the future, not only a doctor, but any expert can decide who is unemployed. Anyone who works in a government office, in a government window, can decide who's unemployed instead of experts. The amendment to the Law on the provision of persons with disabilities also includes the amendments resulting from its transformation. At the same time, it is worth highlighting from the provisions that will expire that in the future the rehabilitation authority does not need to ensure cooperation with the public employment body; it is true that they will also cease or be integrated. So in the future, the state will no longer try to do anything, as I take it out of this regulation to find jobs for people with disabilities. True, they have not done so much, or at least their effectiveness has been very questionable. According to the bill, the administration will cease to exist. There may be serious problems with this, in my opinion, since the benefits that have been granted to bodies that have differed so far, in particular disability benefits, have been operated under the direction of a different ministry and under different sectoral regulations, with different information technology. I would like to live with the words of a professional, and here I quote from a long interview: Everything will be subject to politics. On top of that, I think it will be at the expense of professionalism. Changes to the benefits may seem as if they were actually rationalizing the procedures, making the system really more efficient, perhaps they will, but it is not certain at all that this is the government's sole purpose to ensure that the real goals are in the interests of the customers. I doubt that. Think about it: basically, the government office will determine all the major care that families receive, as I mentioned earlier, the child, the child, the child's child benefit and countless other benefits. In fact, the delegation of income support to district offices brings more and more essentially to the same hand. [[19.40]] Then, even with a pen stroke, you can introduce the relief ceiling or the social card - who likes it - what some people so desire on the right, often on the extreme right, forgetting or ignoring its terrible consequences, segregation, stigmatisation, further opportunities for poverty. Oh, I'm sorry, you can't even say that there's poverty in Hungary. In view of the fact that these institutions are essentially under political leadership, I believe that this manual management will soon come into effect, since I have no doubt that the Parliament will accept it, or at least the majority on the right will vote in favour of this bill, and indeed this will show a great deal of feudal elements after the publication and implementation of the bill. I may have disappointed you with my comment, but I would like to give the Parliament good news: Tivadar Farkasházy won the lawsuit against Andy Vajna. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Who cares?]] Well, that's good enough for us on Saturday. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-256	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr Sallai R. Benedek, LMP Group.
u2015-02-20-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague István Ikotity has already mentioned the concerns about the environment and nature protection institution system, which I would like to explain in part, because it is this process that, partly because of my political activities and partly because of my previous life, that worries me most. I have to say that this process was started by the Gyurcsány government in 2005, when the national park directorates lost the power of the independent nature conservation authority and created the kethevi brakes, the environmental, nature conservation and water inspectorates. A very large violation of nature protection interest occurred at the time, because while earlier, if there was a development, the opinion of an independent administrative authority involved as a administrative authority had to be taken into account, it was not necessary for the joint authority which then stood up, since if there was a water permit, let's say, the water department had received the authorisation and either obtained the opinion of the co-class or did not take it into account. The culmination of this process is what we see now, because we are not talking about a nature conservation system, nor are we talking about an environmental system, nor are we talking about getting into people, but we are getting together every administration, assuming that there are government offices that are competent for everything. However, the experience is that this is impossible, because there is not a competent expert for everything, because it is impossible to increase efficiency by keeping everyone, because the number of authorities is completely different, and the number of administrations in the same administrative office cannot be absorbed by much other authorities. This concern is outstanding because it is practically the greatest pressure, the biggest problem is the overuse of natural resources. A normal sustainable economy is based on the country's natural resources reserve. This is what the Prime Minister's father, who makes a mine in places where Natura 2000 sites are located, and obviously the presence of the environmental administration is disturbing, but every farmer knows it, because the provision above the agricultural land is the provision of natural resources and the creation of the basis for the economy. It would therefore be up to the environmental and nature conservation management to set limits and limits on the sustainable extent of use. However, in a system where these authorities do not have adequate administrative staff, and possibly, as is stated in the current legislation, a position to be taken by the secondment of an expert, this is not possible. It is not possible because, as long as there is a separate administrative authority, it has an obligation to take account of the authority acting on the basis of the Fund, which will not then take place, after which it can say what the expert or a co-office wants, because the government office will take the decision anyway. This obviously involves damage to Hungary's natural wealth in the long term. However, in order to prevent this from happening, there is experience in Hungarian law, because not only in the current Fundamental Law, but also in the constitution before that, the right to a healthy environment was a constitutional fundamental right. As regards the right to a healthy environment, the Constitutional Court has made various decisions in many cases, and one such decision is the basic decision prohibiting changes to the requirements of environmental law. As a result, it is obvious to us - and we will also say in the detailed debate - that this measure is fundamentally unconstitutional, since that basic decision prohibits the withdrawal of material standards, the withdrawal of procedural provisions and, for example, the pooling and elimination of environmental and other authorities in terms of organisational standards. Due to the fact that this constitutional limit is available, the legality of the entire draft legislation arises, even though it raises a number of other problems. When I looked at this draft at first reading, I was also concerned that there might be something nasty going on here, but from the moment Congressman Vas represented the position of the governing parties, I was almost certain, because he was assigned - to the poor - always such ungrateful tasks when they wanted to hide something. Obviously, I have found traces of this by establishing not only the self-destruction of the environmental and nature conservation institution system, but also the elimination of the independent nature conservation institution system outside the administration, such as the national park directorates. At the moment, this is a very strange state of affairs, since national park directorates are not public authorities, but the nature protection guard they employ should be placed directly with the environmental, nature conservation and water inspectorates. This legislation can lead to the lifting of this system, which means that it can be virtually abolished that people with environmental and nature conservation skills in the field are monitoring the environmental and nature conservation values of our country. Obviously, in the detailed debate, it will be possible to identify precisely why this draft poses a threat to environmental protection and nature protection, but in the meantime, there are a number of things that have been said in the head of State Secretary Kovács. First of all, during the week, Congresswoman Bangóne had already read the vocabulary of how the Ministry of Human Resources changed terms, stadiums for sports facilities and people in need of poverty, and I said that the government used the word efficiency for villainy as a politically correct term. It's what efficiency does here, too. I do not know why, based on experience, the Secretary of State thinks that the most important indicator of administrative and administrative procedures is the deadline, because in my opinion it is not so. You can make it customer-friendly, but then you have to eliminate the authorities, eliminate the need to have them subject to authorisation procedures if you don't want to do this. However, in order to examine the environmental impact of a case, how it will be harmonised with EU law, it is not certain that accelerated procedures will be suitable. In the same way, I feel a little self-righteous about the argument that procedural costs are currently high and will change with the combined authorities and will be significantly cheaper. Please, right now, no one's holding a gun to the government's head to maintain procedural fees. It could also be terminated by keeping the autonomous administrative system. The system of environmental and nature conservation management can be maintained by reducing or eliminating the level of procedural fees. That would be appropriate. It would be appropriate if, in fact, the government wanted the procedures to be reduced and simplified. When words came out of this Habony workshop that cut red tape, I hear, there are obviously some arguments that we have not seen in the past with district offices, with the combined offices, there has been a complicated system, people in small towns and their own homes have no access to basic administrative procedures. This is not a reduction in bureaucracy, it is an increase in the system requiring increased travel. This was also the case when I visited the Judicial Committee a few weeks ago to defend my proposal to amend the legislation on why it would be necessary to create a single customer service at the Hungarian offices, then the majority of the governing parties rejected this proposal. I argued that basically a professional administrative staff, a nature conservation engineer, a biologist, or even a sociologist or a lawyer, should not have the empathy to listen patiently to each client, to be able to direct kind words to him in order to assist him in his orientation. We told them to establish customer-friendly authorities where there is such a customer service. The pro-government majority said that this was not necessary, that they did not support it. In the same way, we said how good it would be if the governing party were to withdraw the regulation of sub-governments. I was at the Justice Committee this week because we said how good the system was when people living in the country could actually turn to sub-governments due to a democratic system. [[19.50]] This was not supported by the pro-government majority in the Judicial Committee either. So when I have arguments about bureaucracy reduction and efficiency, it is not necessary to reject the fact that the governing party is constantly refusing to accept and vote off our proposals in this direction. In the same way, the optimized decision-making system - I believe that Mr Secretary of State has also used the word optimized - would be better than the consolidated authorities. All of this would assume that a person would go into a building permit case to the authority or anything like that, in which case he would find appropriate administrative staff for everything. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: The notary is there!]] But we can't assume that. And if we are talking about an environmental authority, if you would like to mention this as a notary, the environmental authority level is divided at the moment, because the notary can also exercise environmental authority tasks and also the administrative body. And by putting this into the administrative office, there are local provisions where the official duty remains at local level. Thus, this problem has not been solved, because there is no way to do the same. At the time, the MSZP said that it was doing friendly environmental protection and a one-stop shop for environmental protection. This made the ketevi brakes, which had already made the mistake of trying to carry out this task practically without taking over the conservation staff. Now a system has been established, there is a continuous dialogue of the ketevi brake with the nature guard service, which allows continuous communication to monitor the natural heritage of our country so that authorisation processes can take place. This is what the government is preparing to cover up. This, without mentioning political corruption at any level or doing anything like that, is clearly a wrong decision, clearly a wrong move, because this can only be done by endangering the natural wealth of our country. The only way to do this is to miss out on the professionalism that belongs to each field of expertise with regard to the resulting government offices. This is what is extremely worrying, because, as we see the government's environmental policy, this has actually been the process over the last five years: how to eliminate the system of environmental and nature protection institutions, how to first reduce it to a State Secretary, and then make it a consolidated State Secretary's activity, so that the authorities can be further restricted, and now, in practice, the government is trying to eliminate this institutional system. This is worrying because when the Deputy Prime Minister announced a week ago at the hunting arms and fishing exhibition that he wanted to establish harmonised conservation, wildlife management and environmental protection regulations, it is already clear that if the independent level of legislation of something is abolished, as it was established in 1995-96 on the basis of the professional aspects of the relatively wise regulation at that time, it is already a bed for the liquidation of the institutional system. There is no civilised state without a system of environmental and nature protection institutions, and the elimination of this - I do not know how many European examples have been looked at - is not typical. Environment and nature protection must be the limit on the use of environmental and nature conservation resources. The system of government agencies is not suitable for this. It won't be suitable, and it won't be, because all the staff and all the official staff who are still scattered in the country at national park directorates and ketevibec will not be able to automatically pass to each government office, as I said, for number reasons. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Integration!]] Overall, integration means taking away the rights associated with the level of professionalism. And as long as the administrative tasks or regulations had to be complied with in a procedure to date, all this will now cease and the government offices will act as a single authority. This is the case in the legislation, and this is clear from the various sections, which we will clearly explain in the detailed debate. I consider the draft legislation unacceptable for my part - but also the official position of the LMP - to be unacceptable. Without a system of environmental and nature conservation institutions, there is no civilised state. Eliminating this is an extremely wrong move. All other areas of expertise can be affected by other professionals. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-20-258	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Kovács asked for the floor outside the line. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-20-259	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor because the debate is going in the wrong direction. The speakers did not listen to what was said in the Expo, so I would like to read it, especially to my fellow Member, Mr Benedek. Again, he may not have been in the room at the time. However, it must be stressed that the changes do not affect the criteria set out in the substantive rules. Therefore, on the regulatory side, material law rules are not affected by an organisational procedural change. That is to say, in the course of the procedure of the authorities, all the issues which have been clarified so far by the administrative authority should be clarified as a matter of expertise. So what you're worried about doesn't change. This means that the professional aspects that were previously examined by the administrative authorities, for example, in terms of environmental protection, heritage protection, will continue to be examined in particular as a matter of expertise. In the course of the decisions, the metropolitan and county government offices should make specific provisions on these issues. So what you're talking about here for about ten minutes was said in the expo a minute, and I told you it wasn't that. The organizational system - let's look at the environmental authority in Székesfehérvár - will be in the same place, the same people working for the same computers, with the same legislation. So I do not think that the alarm bell ringing in this direction is justified in this case. By the way, we think that we can move forward from functional activity with unified information technology, with the introduction of a single care system, with the introduction of mailing, with the reduction of administrative internal deadlines. This is in the interest of the customers, since it is in the client's interest to achieve the result as quickly as possible that he, as an applicant, aims to achieve. Otherwise, the procedure in the administration is not over, there is also the court as a second remedy. Thus, the administrative decision does not end the proceedings, but can still be brought before a court in the event of an infringement. And you may not be able to say that there are all kinds of fidesz in court, Your Honour. That's what I wanted to tell you.
u2015-02-20-260	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group.
u2015-02-20-261	Thank you very much. We're running out of room here. I'm not gonna make it too long. Although I was preparing for a bigger speech at first, I think it really doesn't make sense in front of empty benches, especially because the country's public can't see it. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: There are only two of you here!]] The people present are, of course, always exceptions. I have not been reassured by the Secretary of State that, while maintaining substantive rules on substantive law, procedural legislation will not change in such a way as to result in a reduction of public authority rights and powers so far with regard to environmental authorities. I've been following environmental management, environmental authorities for the last ten years. In 2004, I started working at the environmental, nature conservation and water inspectorate in Székesfehérvár, which was then called the environmental and nature control department. It's kind of hard to keep track of the name changes. The powers migrated from place to place, to place the powers of the water authorities, were taken away from them, and the powers of the nature conservation authorities were transferred from the national parks to the environmental authorities, and were taken away from there. It is true that every government has the right to organise the administration as it finds most effective. What is disturbing about this is rather the trend that has been characteristic of the entire environmental management and environmental protection in Hungary in recent years, and this is the continuous weakening and degradation. We always say it, but I'll tell you again how to start with the self-defence of the environmental portfolio. In 2010, when we raised this in Parliament, it was said that the lack of an independent environmental portfolio could even strengthen its powers or ability to assert interest within a State Secretariat. This is not what we saw in the 2010-2014 cycle, but that it has weakened considerably even during the State Secretary of Zoltán Illés. Now I can say that he has become completely weightless, and in this cycle I do not see many of his roles, many of the weight of this secretary of state, unfortunately. Nevertheless, further processes have also shown the same direction. So the downgrading of itself to the State Secretariat would not have meant a weakening of the environment in domestic legislation, but we have increasingly seen that the interest of investors is superior to environmental protection and sustainability. I think there's a full opposition unit in this. Everyone who has spoken here has said that there has been a strong weakening in this regard in recent years. [[20.00]] This is not only about the cessation of the ombudsmanship of independent future generations or the termination of the independent Ministry of the Environment, but it is also about the continued weakening of the authority, and its resources and financial and human resources have been constantly reduced. What we see here today is, perhaps not entirely abstract from these, that there are timed bombs ticking in Hungary from an environmental point of view under our feet many times or in our environment, which can be detected, identified and handled more effectively with a larger number of authorities and a larger infrastructure. I mean, what we heard on the news the other day was that in the Hortobágy hazardous waste dump, just like a year ago, there's dangerous waste, dangerous materials leaking out. We saw that when a drinking water base was contaminated by an old industrial pollution, it could not be restored later. So when pollution is discovered at a time when it has not yet leaked into the drinking water base, it can still be handled properly. This is also related to the number of officials, the administration apparatus. So, it all points in the direction that there's a lot of weakness, and politics is really focused on environmental protection. We have seen many times that it is not in your interest to invest, and indeed it is expressly an obstacle to the investor's ability to interfere with an environmental authority's authorisation. Civil society organisations, civil society organisations, are becoming increasingly less and less involved in official procedures. It is clear that the aim is to ensure that these licensing procedures go through authorities as smoothly and as easily as possible. This is worrying for us, as Hungary's environmental status is not improving, especially as regards the elimination of pollution from illegal landfills, hazardous waste, drinking water source contamination, old abandoned industrial areas. This activity has virtually completely ceased in Hungary in recent years, and this presents an extraordinary risk for the future by bringing such legislation to Parliament, which further strengthens this process. Although Secretary of State tells me that the same people will be sitting at the same computers in Székesfehérvár or elsewhere, I am afraid that this may be accompanied by a change in personnel, a reduction in resources or a reduction in financial expenditure, because efficiency nowadays means that we are either detracting resources, financial resources or reducing personnel. In particular, it would be good to know whether this will entail the dismissal of environmental officials and, once again, the reduction in budgetary resources, which has already been very minimal in recent years, is virtually not enough for anything. Environmental official controls are reduced to formality and paperwork at a level that does not have the authority's money to sample, analyze and do the rest of the field work that could reveal something that would lead us to, for example, the red sludge disaster in 2010, two weeks before the disaster occurred, an official check was carried out, which included a field trip and a paper check as usual. You know, the authorities don't really have the means to go up to the red sludge reservoir, for example, and look at the pH or alkali concentration of the liquid that's in the red sludge reservoir, because it would have shown right away that, uh, there's something wrong with the technology. So with these things, once and for the same time, we've been going in the wrong direction, not even since the second Orbán government came into power, but since I've been in a professional relationship with the environmental authority, ever since. This should be stopped and reconfirmed, because, as Congressman Sallai has said, the proper use of natural resources is a pledge of our future, and we will reduce the living conditions of future generations by weakening the environmental authority, driven by short-sighted, blinding interests. That is all I wanted to say, and I very much hope that these fears that all opposition parties have just said will not happen. Unfortunately, what has happened so far doesn't prove that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-262	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Sallai Benedek.
u2015-02-20-263	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We have no luck getting to know each other personally, and I don't like hurting anyone because we're on a different political side, but it's not right what you're saying. I've got the proposal in front of me, the 66th. § (a) (1): In the official procedure for authorising activities involving the use of the environment, environmental aspects must be considered in the framework of professional cooperation or as a professional question. Not at the professional level. Then he says 110/A. §, that the government is authorised under the legislation to designate the environmental authority, the water authority, the environmental management body, the water management board, the environmental and nature protection authority in a regulation and to define the specific issues to be addressed in environmental and water procedures. He treats them as a professional issue, and a large part of them are not professional. But I did not want to respond back to what was said earlier on the fact that Mr Big also said that there are professionals at the head of government offices. Well, that's our concern. That's not the case. Also, I don't want to offend government agencies, but a typical example is the scandal system of the past period, when at the head of the National Inspectorate for Environment, Nature and Water, which was the second degree organ of environmental protection and nature protection and water, led by a blessed, blessed, false language exam by Tolnaine, and now she has received a physical education teacher as a specialist. They're second-degree environmental and nature conservation, water authority. So don't tell me it's not a political sink, where you can put people, because that's why I'm not calm. Because how do you treat people like that as a professional if they're not professionals? Forgive me, Secretary of State, I didn't mean to offend you by saying it wasn't true, but I have before me the legislation, which deals with the level of authority so far as to be a technical issue, since the Vötevi brake could act as a public authority. Thank you very much. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-02-20-264	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, Fidesz Group.
u2015-02-20-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, We're talking about a reform of the administration. By the way, the Hungarian entrepreneurial layer and the stakeholders who face the state from an environmental point of view say exactly the opposite of what you claim. But I understand that this is a strong lobby with strong support, but there is a reasonable solution. So it belongs to the state, to the citizens, to the businesses, and to Hungary in full. This, which is now the subject of the law, is about how to transform public administration into a form that is cheaper, faster and works well. I would also like to add to the previous speeches that, if you have a professional problem with the transformation, over the last two years, tens of thousands of people have been enrolled in secondary and tertiary state administration exams, the content of which corresponds to about one state exam. So the crew that currently operates the single-point service system can only sit there with such an exam. But that doesn't mean that these people who sit there can do all the professional work. They're the point where the client reaches the state. But the expertise will remain in the same place as it has been before, only in a different organisational form, which, based on the results so far, is definitely cheaper and more efficient. And if you talk to people, businesses, then, I think you haven't had as much positive perception from customers as you have in the last three years, because of the transformation process and the improvement of service standards. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-266	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2015-02-20-267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have listened to László B. Nagy's comment on this quality of service increase. If you've been watching it, then I've told you the state of service today, and I've also told you what many examples you're facing, and what the service you're providing is, whether through government offices or in other areas. I don't want Secretary Zoltán Kovács to leave the room while he's dealing with someone else. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: I provide information.]] He'd leave the room without answering the basic questions that we've written for him. [[20.10]] Therefore, not much of this, but I will ask some of them once again to have a way to respond in the debate, and not to follow the practice that many of the State Secretarys are doing, that they will only respond when no one else can answer these questions; if you have some courage, Mr Secretary of State, then do it. It was not only my part, but also the reorganization of the provision of active age for district offices, and it is a matter of various repeals. How do you see this, Mr. Secretary? As far as investments are concerned in the national economy are concerned, so to speak, many say, the implementation of state-controlled corruption and the development of this field. How, how do you see this, Mr. Secretary? Or questions concerning those receiving care, which are now being taken over by municipal authorities, and where appropriate, people are losing their health care services. How do you see this, Mr. Secretary? Or the kind of incapacity to work that, in December, I mentioned, had set the question of incapacity for work for 30 days, and now they are changing it so that it cannot be done now. You know, my friends are okay, so we don't need this measure anymore. How do you see these? Is this the service state, Mr. László B. Nagy, my fellow Member? This? It's your service state. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-20-268	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group, submitted a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2015-02-20-269	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to what Mr B. Big has said. However, in an environmental authority procedure or essentially an environmental authority, it is not necessarily appropriate to be cheap, fast and efficient. This is true if you look at it from the customer's side, but if you look at the state, public administration, it should, in principle, be used to protect natural resources, environmental resources. From this point of view, it is not necessarily the good that is cheap, fast and efficient, but that which is properly performing this task, and that is what we are concerned about. From the customer side, new and new facilitations can be made, which is also very good, because there has really been a lot of administrative burden on customers. As an entrepreneur, as an environmental trustee, I have carried out environmental licensing procedures for countless companies, I know what to go through with such a declaration, and it is very commendable if these burdens are reduced and the various declarations are coordinated electronically. But indeed, as Members of Parliament, in the context of legality, we must ensure that the interests of the environment are also represented, not only in the interests of entrepreneurs or customers, and this says that we must carry out procedures that find consistency between the interests of customers and the interests of nature and the interests of the environment. Just as in health care, for example, such a competitive or business approach cannot be introduced to perform cheap, fast and effective surgeries, because it may be at the expense of the patient. Here the patient in this case is environmental and nature protection in Hungary. So I suggest that we consider this, and I will stick to what I have said. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-20-270	Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-271	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At this late hour, I would like to address a number of issues primarily, which means rather than a direct response to individual speeches, but rather a strategic issue, the administration of the future, a wider public administration. On the one hand, the government has adopted a public administration strategy, which sets strategic goals for the future in the 2014-20 regulatory system, which also have a significant impact on public administration. One important part of this is, for example, the extension of electronic administration and electronic administration. In this case, the aim of the State is to take broadband to 3.5 million households in the long term until 2018. From this point on, there is no problem in most cases where electronic access to public administration procedures is possible, whether by electronic means it is possible to deal with matters beyond working time or from home. This is especially true, as László B. Nagy said, for businesses have the least time to line up at an integrated customer service window, the so-called government window. This includes the fact that, if the European Union also accepts the administrative operational programme of the operational programmes, there will be significant EU resources to carry out these cases in the next EU budget period. This is important because it has just been said that the service is not close to the citizens, where appropriate. According to our vision, for all points of administration where administration is currently taking place in the local government, the state will appear through the offices and through the adjutants. Assistants will be equipped with electronic devices that will enable them to carry out this task at about 2,500 points in the country where there are joint offices, whether on the ground or on aid matters or on other official matters. Here I would attach it back to a former speaker, Lajos Korózs, who is no longer in the room, who said what it is that the family support system can be included on paper. It is precisely the case in this case that, so far, these applications could only be lodged at county centres. We extend it, and the IT system doesn't know it at the moment, because only the TÉBA system - which has been found here - knows that it can take this service to 20 places, and we would expand it to 197 places, all the district offices. However, since the IT building of this - since we are still discussing the bill, honourable Members - has not been completed, so we can take these requests in the districts on paper and closer to the customers. Once the improved version of the TOPIC system is built, it means that the twenty administration places will be multiplied by 197 in the coming years. This, by the way, is one of the criteria of the State of Service to increase the meeting points where citizens can meet the State. And as for the sectoral arguments, if something doesn't have a sectoral equivalent, if there isn't, say, a Ministry of Construction, then there's no building houses? Or if there is no sports department, will the Olympic gold medals be reduced? I think that this is not what the system depends on, but that we must always look at them from the regulatory side, and if the regulation lays down criteria on the side of a sector which, by the way, must be examined and implemented by the administrator from all sides, these sectoral interests will not be undermined, no matter what system they are in. Integration means that buffer times - I'm sorry, for the expression - end in a procedure. After all, the coordination of internal IT and organisational systems will be an extremely big task in the coming years, because today there are sectoral systems operating in Hungary, which were coordinated in the course of IT developments - I also remember, Ferenc Baja may also be a government commissioner on behalf of our socialist colleagues - who supervised this. Compared to this, there have been various sectoral developments, there are no interfaces, but I don't want to do it here, because I don't know this much about IT lectures. I just want to say that we all have to deal with these issues in integration. What I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Staudt Gábor, is that today I can say that there is a certain profile cleaning going on in the public administration. State duties will be transferred to the state through district offices, through adjutant offices, through offices. For example, in the relief system, the normative aid system, where the state determines under what normative rules these aids may be issued under subject law, is transferred to the state, the district offices. [[20.20]] This will be a very big task, by the way, these tasks transferred from the notaries. As regards the aid that may be granted, on which the Member expressed his concern, where appropriate, the issue of relations with the environment or keeping the port in order, the local government may continue to regulate it with the aid that may be granted. And why this change? People in the local settlement know each other best, where local resources can be best distributed or provided to people with a difficult fate, so the regulation can be adapted to this. I am not concerned that there is no internal solidarity in a village, whether there are 300 people living there or two thousand people living in that settlement that they cannot support their difficult fellow citizens. As far as the head architect is concerned, I say to Congressman Staudt, they will continue to remain in the system, in the government system there will be county architects who will continue to carry out the same task. They've been in there before, by the way, I mean, there were only regional architects who, if any, performed the task for two or three counties. The question of redress has also been raised. I have already replied to this in part to Congressman Ikotity when I just replied to Sallai R. Benedek. I would also like to say that, in the long term, the redress system should also be considered where new elements can be introduced into this redress regulation, which also comply with EU case law and also comply with the internal rules that we are developing. There is also a need to consider, where appropriate, the existence of administrative jurisdiction, since ultimately the court always says the case. It was an old socialist procedure before 1990 to maintain full regulation within the administrative system, because then it is up to us to decide on these issues, and I think that the EU and the legislation that we have taken is also right, according to which the final word in the event of a breach of law is spoken by the court in the course of the appeal procedure. I would also like to reassure my colleague, Mr Lajos Korózs, who has already left the room, that we will operate the TÉBA system in the same way as I have just said, that the Hungarian Treasury will be transferred, that the employees will be transferred, that the IT system itself will be transferred, which has been developed, and that we would like to improve. [[He's taking a moment's break.]] Excuse me, excuse me, Mr. President. I think that this is a professional proposal, and I do not wish to respond to the political overtones that have been expressed here by some of my fellow Members, because the two laws that lie before Parliament, the general debate of which we have had before, and this law, the general debate of which has just been held in front of our eyes, are complementary, compatible and thus forms a whole. As far as the deadline is concerned, as we have seen on 1 March, and in this we also agreed with the colleagues' proposal that we moved the date of entry into force a month further, precisely because the work has not just begun. There is ongoing consultation of internal and external integration with sectoral bodies, trade unions, so there is consultation with social organisations, and yesterday we also did one of these, from the various sectors, from the mining trade union to other trade unions, and both the strategy and the proposal itself have been sent to professional organisations, and where we knew, the proposals have been integrated into the system. This is therefore not only a government proposal in itself, but also a broader proposal based on social consultation. That is why I say that the honourable Members have expressed excessive concerns. I think, as we say, the test of pudding is eating. Of course, there is no change in any system without bumps, but if we recall, the same concerns were expressed in the establishment of the district office, and it is no longer disputed that the district system is a proven, well-functioning administrative unit, the lower level of territorial administration. When the new municipal system was introduced in 1990, everyone was also concerned about what was going to happen, there were no legislation, because the old socialist legislation was partly in place, then a new parliament was formed and it has played the role that the legislators had intended for it in the past. I think that they should give confidence in this system and in the territorial administration that we will have such results, and I think that the client is always the first, as László B. Nagy said, to take their point of view into account, of course, legal compliance must also be taken into account in all proceedings. If we can bring these two together in an integrated organisational system, from the point of contact with the public administration to ultimately decide the outcome, then I think that the concerns expressed by the fellow Members may be excessive. I ask you to give us confidence in this system, we hope, and there is every hope that the regulation will live up to its expectations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-20-272	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply to what was said in the debate. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Wednesday 25 February at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/3116. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the House Committee has decided that the bill will be discussed as an EU item by the Parliament, and that the MEPs in Hungary have been notified of this. First, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, To enhance competitiveness and ensure the best energy prices for consumers, it is essential to create a fully operational and interconnected internal energy market in Europe that helps to supply the economy with affordable and sustainable energy. In order to enhance competition in the gas market, the European Union provided for the adoption of common network codes for ensuring and maintaining effective and transparent access to cross-border transmission networks in the so-called third energy package in 2009. The purpose of the bill before you is to transpose the necessary amendments to the Hungarian legal system to implement the two regulations announced by the European Commission in accordance with EU regulations. From 1 October 2015, Hungary is required to apply the balancing rules laid down in the Regulation establishing a network regulation for system balancing between gas transmission system operators with a view to promoting a short-term wholesale gas market and setting up trading platforms. These platforms will make gas trading between network users and transmission system operators more efficient. Transmission system operators should endeavour to meet their system balancing needs by purchasing and selling standard products on the short-term wholesale gas market as far as possible. [[20.30]] The Regulation establishing a network code for capacity allocation mechanisms in natural gas transmission systems that are mandatory as of 1 November 2015 and supplementing Regulation (EC) No 715/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council lays down non-discriminatory rules on conditions of access to natural gas transmission systems for the proper functioning of the internal market in natural gas. The standardised capacity allocation mechanism shall include the auction procedure for the relevant interconnection points within the Union and the standard cross-border capacity products to be offered and allocated. In line with EU standards, the following major changes in the sectoral regulation of natural gas are included in the bill. The so-called gas year, currently running from 1 July to 30 June of the following year, will shift from 1 October 2015 to 30 September of the following year. At the interconnection points, the annual capacity commitment shall be made on the first Monday of March of each year and at the other entry and exit points on the first Monday of August of each year. In the case of annual capacity, the day of the storage capacity commitment will also be the first Monday of March and, in the case of a shorter period, the day specified in the shop rules of the natural gas storage holder. According to the draft, the annual capacity allocation for the gas year starting from 1 October 2015 should take place by 11 May 2015 and the capacity allocation of storage facilities by 15 April 2015. The system expands with new capacity binding periods, while the gas year, monthly and daily bookings also show the possibility of quarterly and intra-day bookings. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is essentially designed to comply with the EU directives, the third energy package, and I must mention that it is the result of a lengthy professional preparation. For more than six months, the regulatory authority, the Ministry, consulted market participants, relevant network users, system managers. Hopefully, after the adoption of this well-thought-out and all aspects of the bill, the rules contained in it will make the Hungarian gas market, the Hungarian energy market, suitable for ensuring that consumers can benefit from the market at the most competitive price and at the cheapest possible price and provide the right amount of and quality energy. Thank you for listening, and I would like to ask you that T/3116 facilitates the applicability of EU regulations. Please support bill number 1.
u2015-02-20-274	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-02-20-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The fast-track negotiation of the Gas Supply Act before us is justified by the need to bring the domestic regulatory environment into line with the EU regulations in the gas sector by March of this year. The European network of natural gas transmission system operators plans to develop five regulations in total, and three of them have already been adopted. As stated in the national exposé, the main aim of this is to stimulate competition on the market and, as a result, to ensure more favourable gas prices for consumers. The first step was to recast network codes for narrowing. Given the limited availability of transmission networks and cross-border capacities between EU Member States, the use of existing and contracted capacities would limit competition on the market and have a price-raising effect on internal markets. The rules already in place require licensees to make effective use of their acquired and committed capacities. If this does not happen, they will lose their allocated but unused capacity under the new legislation and will be returned to the gas market where they can be re-published to licensed trading companies. This reduces the possibility of abuse of a dominant position on the market, but can also have a positive impact on security of supply in qualified situations. After the codification proposals on capacity allocation and balancing rules have been presented by the government's representative, Mr Aradsk State Secretary, I would like to draw attention to only a few detailed arrangements that have a major impact on the functioning of the domestic gas market. These include the capacity binding at the interconnection points, as well as at all entry and exit points of the transmission line, on an electronic capacity connection platform, via auction, according to the rules approved by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office from the autumn of this year. At all points of the transport line, kilowatt hour accounting is introduced. The unit of measurement used for the operation of gas storage facilities will also be kilowatt hour, while the accounting in megajoules will remain on the distribution line. The supply by means of transmitters of gas meters for users not eligible for universal service with a meter of more than 20 cubic metres per hour shall be compulsory for licensees as of 1 January 2017. Dear Parliament, The above amendments may not only result in compliance with the obligations imposed by the EU provisions, but also in better transparency of the market regulation conditions of the domestic gas infrastructure, resulting in a more efficient use of assets and, at the same time, the provision of better conditions to end-users. The rules to be introduced may also facilitate the enforcement of national interests set out in the national energy strategy. Of course, the planned development of transmission infrastructure in recent years, the physical expansion of scarce cross-border capacities, the new access point to the European gas network, the construction of cross-border capacity in Slovakia-Hungarian and the ownership of domestic underground gas storage facilities in the Community were essential. All of these interlinked sectoral and policy actions can lead to increased security of supply in the country, and can also help to achieve the strategic goal of making Hungary the hub for regional gas trading in Central Europe. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the bill for the reasons set out above. Finally, allow me to conclude with a personal remark. In my view, transparent regulation, increased competition in the market, the entry of the domestic utility service provider into the market within weeks will also provide for the possibility of providing additional targeted benefits to pay and pay groups of consumers in energy poverty, while preserving the results of the overall reduction. I therefore propose that the honourable government examine with substance the introduction of a block tariff system which is not contrary to EU principles. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-20-276	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[20.40]]
u2015-02-20-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Indeed, as has been said, the bill essentially means compliance with EU legislation, and the next step in the harmonisation process that the Secretary of State and my fellow Member, the lead speaker at Fidesz, have presented and said. However, as opposition representatives, let me also highlight other provisions of the bill that no longer necessarily refer only to compliance with EU legislation, but also to the launch of new processes in the gas market, the trade market. On the basis of the bill, different rules should be applied to the interconnection of capacity at cross-border points between Ukraine and Serbia, which are laid down by the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office. Indeed, this is not contrary to EU rules, but does not preclude the application of the EU Regulation. It is worth taking this into account even more when the Prime Minister was discussing the Energy Union in Poland, although he made a statement here in Hungary that, for example, Hungary is not interested in this joint gas procurement. The programme of the Latvian EU Presidency also includes the deepening of the Energy Union, and it is obviously what often comes up: the joint European action in the Russian gas trade, which Hungary and Viktor Orbán are debating, but there are countries in the European Union who seriously raise this issue. Therefore, not having to apply an EU regulation does not make it possible. Due to the differences in regulation, different rules at two cross-border points may also provide an opportunity to establish a discriminatory regulatory system that gives some market players a competitive advantage. Now allow me again, even in the last debate on the encryption of the Paks contracts, to go back to the suspicion lawsuit, because I still have the process that MET Zrt. has. launched years ago with the help of the Hungarian Electric Works and the then Minister, which meant that thanks to a legal regulation, MET Zrt. He brought cheap gas into Hungary; not the more expensive Russian gas, but what could be purchased on the gas exchange, and in conjunction with the MVMP, in conjunction with the Hungarian Electricity Trading Company, he sold it here in Hungary and gained a total profit of nearly HUF 100 billion. And we also learned that this is an offshore company behind which István Garancsi is one of the Prime Minister's friends, with whom he regularly watches football matches. So let us take advantage of the suspicion lawsuit that with this regulation it is possible that if this year, MET Zrt. and the existing contract between the Hungarian Electricity Works expires in the summer, then it will move this activity from the western border to the eastern border, even in relation to the Ukrainian pipeline, so it will no longer purchase gas on the stock exchange, but will also bring cheap gas into Hungary under a separate contract with Gazprom and continue to do so. Obviously, that's an assumption, but after this happened on the western border, there's a suspicion that this may be passed on to the eastern border. Another point of the bill that I would like to draw attention to is that the bill aims to make clear that the storage of natural gas in Hungary does not require a gas trading permit or a limited gas trading permit. In practice, this proposal means that Gazprom is able to store its own gas here in domestic gas reservoirs, regardless of whether it intends to enforce it later in Hungary or in other non-EU countries, so that on the one hand the utilisation of domestic reservoirs may increase, while at the same time the quantity of natural gas stored for domestic use may be reduced. The Prime Minister and the journalists had a background discussion, and the reports said that the Prime Minister wished to offer Gazprom a capacity greater than 700 million cubic metres so far in terms of 3 billion cubic metres. So, in fact, what we have already discussed here in Parliament, and we have named it lex Gazprom, is now being sanctioned here again in this bill. The third thing I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to: the government submitted a legislative programme in December 2014 and this legislative programme included that this bill should also be part of the rules for ensuring the gas sources of universal service providers for the 16th of 2015 but this bill does not contain this, probably not by accident. This could pose a security of supply risk because, despite years of preparatory material, the government still has not decided on the natural gas market model to be applied after the expiry of the long-term natural gas contract, but the supply-type contracts between the universal service provider and the Hungarian Electricity Industries as a wholesaler will be terminated on 30 June 2015, so that the current universal service providers can remain without competitively priced sources of natural gas. Today an article was published on an Internet portal - I'm not going to use this term, which is the title of the article, but rather a little lessen the fact that I connect your legs and then go to the race. Thus, universal service providers, with the exception of the first Nemzeti Közműszolgáltató Zrt., obviously and already registered, may remain without gas at appropriate prices, provided that neither domestic small production nor the HAG pipeline on the border of Austria can be accessed. My colleague mentioned the construction of the Hungarian-Slovak pipeline; the problem is that it is still only the construction. We remember that Viktor Orbán and Robert Fico have handed over the investment that has not yet been completed, but we still haven't been informed whether this pipeline is working; we have only read that the pipeline itself is under test, but the real operation has not yet started. Therefore, since this bill does not contain the settlement of the fate of long-term gas contracts, it may be assumed that operators considered undesirable by the government will be excluded from gas trading without adequate resources at reasonable prices and will even voluntarily leave the Hungarian market due to losses in service at official prices. Meanwhile, it is possible that the First Nemzeti Közműszolgáltató Zrt. - with tens of billions of forints now pumped into the Hungarian state's tax-paying money, of course - you can access these cheap resources, and again you can have an action for the Fidesz government to see that the public company can provide the price of gas to consumers at a cheaper rate, while the previously pushed multi-company companies can be more expensive, so let's all come to the state company. I think that you are talking about competitiveness, openness, equality of competition between the players in the gas market, or at least about securing the opportunity, while in this regulation, in this bill, there is no settlement of these contracts, and this is precisely a privileged situation that they can create. The Hungarian Socialist Party cannot therefore support the bill. Of course, the EU harmonisation provisions would be eligible, but this once again is a personalised bill or supposedly personalised bill that is not eligible here, and we do not even know about the opaque background agreement that the Hungarian State has regularly concluded. The details of these are not usually made before this House, and we cannot support the proposal either. [[20.50]] Mr State Secretary mentioned that the bill itself provides the opportunity to create a competitive energy price and a cheaper energy price. I would like to draw your attention and ask for your support; I have tabled a bill on it, and my fellow Member has mentioned - I see - another opportunity to reduce gas bills, but this bill, which I have tabled, would clearly enforce the reduction in gas prices that we have already seen on the world market. And in this background discussion, it was also said that the Russian gas, which comes from the eastern direction, has already fallen by almost 40 percent, so that is already the case in the gas accounts of Hungarian consumers. You do not have to think about it, you do not have to make a suggestion, but all you have to do is support my bill by pressing a button, which means that consumers can get a 20% reduction in gas prices until average consumption, so no more than swimming pool and sauna heating. So not only do my fellow members of the government support this law, but also support the bill that could provide this discount immediately. And people living on wages and salaries, which my fellow Member has mentioned, are generally not above average consumers, so there is a solution to that too. There's no need for the government to start another codification work, there's the bill, please support it. Finally, it was from my fellow Member Bencsik that all the gas trading and gas market processes in Hungary show that Hungary will later become a gas trading and gas distribution centre in Europe, Central Europe. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the processes show that they want to make Hungary the centre of Russian gas trade and the distribution of Russian gas. So, if we are talking about diversification, openness, the need to feed on Hungarian gas supplies from as many sources as possible, then it must also be taken into account that it is not only the Russian gas, which we need to make a commercial central issue. As I said, we cannot support the law and I would like to point out that I have tabled two amendments which address these problems that I have raised. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-20-278	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-02-20-279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I promise I won't take up much of your time, not even because we're sitting in this Chamber quite thinly. If I wanted to entertain you with an agricultural metaphor at this late hour, I'd say, like potato beetles on the leaves of potatoes. But aside from the joke, I would like to say at the outset that the European Community regulation itself, as such, can be applied directly in the Member States without any transposition action being carried out here. So this part actually makes this agenda a little frivolous, which we are discussing, because, in practice, as long as we are members of the European Union, it also applies directly to us. It is obvious that it can be applied directly to the courts. Nevertheless, the laws on the supply of gas and the supply of gas should not be contrary to these regulations. These need to be amended, I sign this, and it is indeed a good initiative to ensure that Hungary's gas supply is more diversified than the current one, and that the European Union's gas supply and supply systems are designed to ensure that gas supply to individual countries is as flexible as possible. But if we look at the whole European Union as a system, the question arises immediately: okay, we are handing out gas here and there - but where does that gas come from? Obviously, every country or almost every country has its own production of natural gas, as we do, we produce 20 percent of our consumption and we import 80 percent of our consumption, but today, this imports are mostly from the east, or Russia. Russian gas is Europe's main source of supply. The next question is how Russian gas gets to Hungary. At the moment, through Ukraine, as we have heard from Vladimir Putin, on 1 December, this is probably only until 2018. What will happen afterwards, how this natural gas will reach Hungary, we hear little about it. There are various ideas and ideas that we will bring the Russian gas taken here to Hungary through Macedonia and Serbia to the Turkish-Greece border, or even further to Austria. It would be good to hear a little more concrete ideas than these ideas, since they are extremely close. If you look at how long it takes to plan, authorise, implement a gas pipeline, it is extremely close to the date 2018-19 when the Russian party, in its current view, eliminates the gas transit through Ukraine in its entirety. Hungary and Central Europe, the Balkans and South-East Europe are not without Russian gas at the moment. There has been a European gas stress test, which shows that these countries, especially the Balkan countries south of Hungary, but also the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, would be in an extremely difficult situation if Ukrainian gas taps were completely closed. Hungary is in a slightly better position to have enough storage capacity, perhaps around 7 billion storage capacity that we can use if these containers are fully charged, but it is obvious that this is not enough for an infinity, so we need to get gas from somewhere. Now we can also see from statistics that the 80 percent we cover from import is about half or a little more than half coming from the east, and the other half coming from the other direction or mostly from the west. Here the question arises what percentage of the gas coming from the west, which is also Russian gas, comes back to us only bypassing it, because diversification does not mean so much that if the same Russian gas, which, say, went through the Nord Stream to Germany, we get the same gas back through Austria. The second question is whether gas from other sources of supply, such as LNG terminals, can indeed be competitive. In order to arrive in Hungary either from the LNG terminals in Croatia or Poland, LNG from the Gulf region, overseas or from any other origin, liquefied natural gas should finally be two-wayed. This was the point that we are very much looking forward to from Slovakia when this system will finally be put into operation and when normal trade will finally take place. It is also a long-standing issue, which we have talked about several times with the Secretary of State here in Parliament, when Croatia will fulfil its obligation to make it two-way so that natural gas can arrive from Croatia to Hungary. This continues to keep us waiting, and this makes it quite difficult for us to bring natural gas into the territory of Hungary from the east and from the west. And we are also rather scarce in terms of resources, although we are mostly dependent on Russian gas. And then we can make a political question about why we are committed to Russia, but at the moment we do not have much of a choice, because what we were talking about in previous cycles, let us say, Nabucco or any other idea of the wire, it has all been proven that they do not really have a reality. There is no sufficient amount of gas at Nabucco, because what the pipeline reaches so far and each country meets its own needs would no longer appear in Hungary. Then, if the gas of several countries, including Turkmen, Iranian or other neighbouring countries, can be connected to this pipeline later on, a suitable capacity could be created. [[21.00]] In the meantime, however, going back to the point on the agenda that we are discussing here, in a slightly broader sense, what we really need to do here in Hungary is to be able to bring gas into our country from as many directions as possible, import gas, and obviously trade gas in both directions. The fact that we are making trade more flexible here, and indeed there is such a tendency that these long-term gas supply contracts are starting to go out of fashion, and rather these stock exchanges, within the next day or within the year, or within the month, or for different periods, are showing up, are good in such a way that gas or gas can be purchased here at actual daily rates, but it is clear that a country needs stable supply and energy security, at least at the moment, some sort of fixed amount of gas available in the longer term, which has been provided by the long-term gas supply agreement with Russia. What is now due to the Orbán-Putin meeting, or at least what came out of this meeting to the press, is that the committed but unused amount of approximately 20 or 22 billion cubic metres will be used in the period starting on 1 January 2016 in the coming years. The price at which this will take place, or how the price setting process will take place, the background reconciliations that have taken place in this case, have not been leaked. As far as I know, at the moment, or the long-term gas supply agreement may have said that the price of natural gas was compared to the oil price six or eight months earlier, this is the price indexed to the oil price. I don't know, because the price of oil is very low right now, obviously, if we could get gas next January compared to the current oil prices, it might be a good deal, but actually there's no... - perhaps Mr Secretary of State has more information than that, but we cannot say much about it at the moment. What we certainly need is that 22 billion cubic meters. How long it takes to call it off and how we use it is another question. By the time we use that quantity, however, the problem is that Russian exports through Ukraine will cease. So it wouldn't have made sense to conclude another long-term gas supply contract without even knowing where the gas will come from in 2019, because there is no fixed idea that 60-billion cubic metres of gas taken through the Turkish Stream pipeline to Turkey, or that the 17 billion committed by the Turks will be deducted from it, so I don't know how about 50 billion cubic metres will proceed from the Turkish-Greece border. The European Union, for the time being, either doesn't mean it, so it sees Putin's decision as a bluff, or he's looking for solutions, I don't know. In any case, as such a lousy duck, the European Commission itself or the European Union seems to be at a loss, even though it is really necessary to decide on some kind of line version within a very closed deadline. We, Jobbik Hungary Movement, regretted that the South Stream had not been implemented, because as long as the Nord Stream gas pipeline could be implemented and transported to Germany without further delay, and could satisfy the gas dependence or gas demand of the Nordic countries, we remained here again, Eastern Central Europe as a kind of stepchildren of the European Union, as if it did not matter to the EU how Hungary and the surrounding countries would obtain natural gas. And it is very important for us, although our use of natural gas has decreased in recent years, we do not know what the long-term trend will be. There are several reasons for this reduction. Obviously, due to the economic crisis, consumption has decreased on the one hand, but on the other hand, our gas-powered power plants have been operating in a rather low efficiency or low hours in recent years, because it was better to import electricity. This also obviously reduces the country's gas consumption and gas consumption. So, there are a lot of questions that seem to indicate that we need to think not only about diversifying routes, but also about diversifying resources. I do not know whether Hungary has opportunities, whether in LNG or even in North African gas, and, of course, also in relation to the transfer of Russian gas to Hungary. I believe that the European Union's basically declared objective, and I do not think so, but the European Union has also stated this, so that we are less dependent on Russian gas. Obviously, this has an economic and political dimension. If we are looking at foreign policy events, it is obviously not a coincidence that the European Union wants to be independent of Russian gas, not least overseas pressure. I would not agree to the foreign policy or economic policy aspects now, because this is not on the agenda. This will not work in the coming decades, as Russia has the largest natural gas supply. It's business. It's practically in Russia's interest to sell his gas. As long as they do not build up towards China, those pipelines to the Far East from the East Siberian gas fields, they must somehow sell the gas to Europe. And we definitely need natural gas, so we're gonna have to find a way to make this happen sooner or later in the form of an agreement. With regard to storage capacities, I would like to say that we absolutely consider it a good idea to use a larger part of the current storage capacity for wage storage, either in the direction of Gazprom or other players, as this means revenue for Hungary and security. Obviously, our gas reservoirs need to be filled as much as possible, especially in the current foreign policy situation, when a rather unstable peace process is taking place east of us in Ukraine, and we do not know what will happen to our energy supply, even through Ukraine. May God not allow this to escalate into any kind of war process, but unfortunately, it is still in the cards to this day. These are far-reaching energy strategy issues, and I am not taking it any further, all the more so because the time frame available to me is running out. As has been the case, we offer our support and help to the governing party and the government in all cases where we see that Hungary's energy independence is indeed being shifted by legislation. What we see here is that a European Union regulation or several regulations are being brought into line with Hungarian law. Since these regulations, however we do, will affect us and will take effect, and therefore, and for the decisions on energy policy in the European Union that have been more detrimental to our country recently than beneficial, we do not necessarily consider this proposal to be supported. We're either gonna take a stand between not voting and abstaining, or we're gonna make our decision later. In any case, we believe that the European Union, including Hungary, should take a different direction on the issue of natural gas and energy policy. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt applauds.]]
u2015-02-20-280	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-20-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Hungary is the only EU Member State that would put the energy sector on a non-profit base. In a background conversation, Prime Minister said that if profit does not disappear from the system, then the European energy price will never be competitive with the American. I must say that if this were indeed the direction of the Hungarian government's energy policy, then perhaps this could be debated in a meaningful way. It is not certain that a country with few conventional energy sources can decoupling itself from market effects. But we have also experienced that the exclusivity of profit points leads to a dead end. But the government's energy policy is in a completely different direction in reality. At present, Hungarian energy prices are not high because of profit. Most residential energy providers, including Hungarian State Electricity, are loss-making. The high prices are caused by the many taxes the Bajnai and then the Orbán government charged to the energy suppliers. Without the need for completeness: Robin Hood tax, special tax on energy suppliers, utility tax, and, of course, the world record is 27 percent VAT. They all add to the price of Hungarian energy. American energy is basically cheaper than Europeans, but only in some states because they do not tax energy overseas. In Hungarian energy prices, however, even in the European comparison, the tax content is extremely high. [[21.10]] Moreover, the Hungarian government's steps do not show that he wants a non-profit energy sector. There is no more nonprofit way to generate energy than installing a solar battery on the roof of the house and producing their own energy needs for people and families. And what does the Hungarian government do? Do you support this opportunity? On the contrary. It also taxes the solar battery, the heat pump, which is also a nonprofit way for people to generate energy for themselves. This would be the true form of energy independence. The bill before us is also not about the non-profit energy sector, but mainly about the private pockets in which profits are made, which can be realised by selling cheap energy imported from abroad in Hungary. By reading the amendment to the Gas Supply Act, it becomes clear that the real appropriate name for this text, as has already been said, could be lex MET or lex Gazprom. It appears that these companies are likely to be recipients of profits. Just a few thoughts about MET. We know that it is a company with offshore background, we know that it is a company that has made tens of billions of HUF profit, and this was done at the expense of the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian people. The text contains a lot of EU legislative harmonisation and technical amendments. However, it is not possible to miss the gas transit and the provisions that are favourable to certain gas storage operators. I quote some of the following:. Whoever uses the free capacity of the cooperating natural gas system for the transit of natural gas or for the storage of wages in Hungary is not obliged to obtain a natural gas trading permit or a limited natural gas trading permit. That's what the law says. For example, Gazprom carries out payroll and transfers to the Prime Minister on friendly lines, mentioned above, MET. Unfortunately, it is clear that this provision does not serve the non-profit operation, but the profits of these companies. But let's keep looking. I quote once again the text of the law:. With regard to the entry and exit point of a cross-border gas pipeline connected to a neighbouring non-EU Member State's gas transmission system, the President of the Office may lay down rules other than those relating to interconnection points in a regulation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The offshore-based MET has recently acquired the gas business of GDF Suez and is now in a position to supply gas to the Ukrainian market. Here, it is as if the preparation of this business, the introduction of special rules to increase the profits of MET, is taking place. It is not the first time that the government completely rewrites the regulation of gas trading in order to facilitate Gazprom's Hungarian shops and the gas transit of MET. From all of this, a small business circle benefits, while the Hungarian population remains vulnerable to Russian gas. According to Politics, the Hungarian interest is to reduce gas dependence, increase energy efficiency, promote renewables, but the government does not take action to this end. Fidesz himself thought differently and talked about these issues until recently. The main elements of security of energy supply are energy production, distribution and storage. That's why Magyar Tram Works Zrt. purchased it in 2013. the shares of E.ON, thereby acquiring the Hungarian natural gas trading licenses, the natural gas storage facilities and the natural gas stocks in them. These reservoirs represent about 70 percent of the domestic storage capacity, which was subsequently increased by the purchase of a significant part of the Szőreg-1 security gas storage from MOL, with which some 80-85 percent of the storage capacity was already owned by the State. This storage capacity guarantees the undisturbed supply of natural gas to the population and the Hungarian economy. This quote is the official position of Fidesz on gas storage by mid-2014. This text is still available on the Fidesz website. A significant proportion of the storage capacity is already used by Gazprom, and the Putin visit revealed that they want to increase their capacity by four times. How is this related to the Fidesz post mentioned earlier? How does it serve Hungarian energy independence and non-profit energy supply if the country on which we are most dependent on gas imports gains influence in the Hungarian gas storage facilities? Wouldn't it be in the Hungarian interest to fill the entire storage area with Hungarian-owned gas to cover those needs in case of supply disruptions or to dampen the effects of a sudden price increase? And how will this become a non-profit service if we have to buy gas in the Hungarian territory from the same country, which may cause the supply problem? This bill is no step closer to energy independence, to non-profit energy provision. But it helps those whose pockets the government has been constantly filling the profits of the Hungarian gas trade. The draft is unacceptable to LMP. We are in favour of true energy independence and environmentally sustainable energy supply. Thank you.
u2015-02-20-282	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As I do not see any further contributions from its representatives, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-02-20-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In my response, I have to return to the last debate on the bill on the extension of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant capacity, where I listened to representatives of the MSZP, the LMP, and realized that they had not read the legislation, and when I told them what the legislation contained, I thought they would not fall into this error again. But unfortunately, I have to see that their political intentions make them unread and uninterpretable. Just to make it clear to everyone: Congressman Bertalan Tóth has already said that we have encrypted the documents of the Paks investment. The bill, which we did not discuss just now, did not encrypt, but regulated the rules for accessing information, in any case in the way it has been contained in other legislation in force so far, there is no novum in it, and the fact that we are encrypting the documents of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant does not correspond to reality on the basis of the bill submitted. This is because I have received similar incorrect, politically influenced interpretations of the text from the leaders of the bill here. Congressman Bertalan Tóth said that it comes from the encryption of Paks contracts, like Moricka, that everything - especially on the gas issue - comes to mind in a debate between MET and MVM on a bill containing mandatory transposition and adaptation of EU legislation, so that the energy market, the gas market, can operate as easily and as clearly as possible in Europe. [[21.20]] And a lot of things have been said that are worth considering. One of these issues is why we do not apply the rules contained in the network code regulations to pipelines related to countries outside Europe. The main rule, Mr President, if you had read this legislation carefully, is that these rules should be applied. The Hungarian Energy and Utility Service Office, as a regulator, is authorised to use the two lines differently if it decides to do so. Only in parentheses do I tell you that, in relation to the third energy package, the European Union is conducting a pilot procedure against Hungary, and one of its major objections is that the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Government, is in its view detracting powers from the Hungarian Office for Energy and Public Works as a regulator. Compared to this, we are going in this direction when we say that the independent regulator is able to make different justified regulations. So it is precisely that, according to the main rule, the network code EU legislation must be applied both in the Serbian and Ukrainian relations, and only the independent energy regulation agency can make other rules. Many protested that the Hungarian-Slovak pipeline was not working. There are two conditions for operation. One condition is that it is technically suitable and the other condition is that it has the necessary licences for commercial operations. I'm reporting that there are some technical errors that occurred during the test run. On average, the test run of such a line can take three to four months, because there is always a problem that needs to be corrected, which is expected to be corrected by the end of March. We are at the point of the regulation that the European Union will send its approval within days, on the basis of which the Hungarian Energy and Utility Service Office may issue the authorization under which this pipeline can exercise its commercial activity. I believe that all the elements of the regulation before us meet the requirements of the European Union. The insinuations that they assume may result from legislative interpretation - I say this benevolently, and I do not assume political disillusionment - which misleads you to give a correct interpretation of the proposed draft legislation. Lajos Kepli's discussion of the energy situation was very interesting. I waited in the sentence, but I got Russian gas coming from the West. So it is not exclusive from the point of view of Hungary that we are heated with Russian gas. In addition to the Eastern European and Central European countries, Germany uses 20 percent of its consumption from Russian gas. It's a gift. However, in my humble opinion - and I believe that the Hungarian position will also have an impact in this direction - it will not be possible to create another addiction by referring to this. So the Russian gas plays its role in Eastern Central Europe if it acts as a market player, and in order to act as a market player, such network code rules are very much needed. We need this regulation very much, because it makes it possible, it makes the conditions for system use clear and transparent, and, in order to promote competition, it leads to price reductions. Congressman Ikotity didn't say anything new. Thank you very much. By the way, I would like to tell the LMP that among those who support 66 percent of renewables, I am there, with the exception that we support not only renewables, but also, as we said in the energy strategy at the time, that Hungarian energy sources, energy from the nuclear power plant, energy from fossil sources and energy from renewable sources must stand on three feet. I think that you, as well as my colleague Bertalan Tóth, like Moricka in the joke, have been reminded of MET and MVM of all kinds of shit. If you had read it carefully, you would have seen that this legislation serves transparency, competition and the possibility of a clear, harmonised market operation. I think that there is no serious objection to content issues. I have already answered Mr Bertalan Tóth's question as to how the Ukrainian and Serbian relations will be. With regard to your accusation that we want to exclude universal service providers from access to gas, I would like to say that I can reassure Congressman that we have started preparing this legislation and that we will discuss it here in March. It's not like that. Of course, I read the Internet newspaper, too, and the usual benign and pre-speculated article appeared in it, which reminds me of the saying that when György Moldova was asked in his book János Horváth about Cuba, how true Moldova - who also wrote a book about Cuba - said, please, it is so true that even the opposite is not true. I can say the same for this article. Please, Congressman, let us wait for this bill and discuss it here in Parliament, professionally, but first read it more carefully than you have just done, the bill on the investment of Paks Power Plant. If he had done so, he would not have made an explicit opposition to the content of the bill. Thank you for the speech of the participants in the debate, thank you for your support for those who believe that the Hungarian gas market is with an important bill before the House and consider it worthwhile to support its adoption. Thank you.
u2015-02-20-284	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Proposals for amendments may be submitted by 16 a.m. on 25 February. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. On this day's day, MEP Lajos Kepli asked for a speech on the agenda: the late Balaton region; a picture of tourism on the shores of the Hungarian sea. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-02-20-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member - to be quite precise. If we line up the regions of the country for the increase in the number of guest nights, then Lake Balaton was the ninth, the last modest increase in both domestic and foreign tourism compared to the recent newscasts. Ladies and gentlemen, This does not give us any reason to be optimistic, and it was already seen during the year that the increase in tourism in Balaton did not bring the desired level. While, as measured shortly after the end of the summer season, domestic tourism increased overall by 8.3 percent in the country and the foreigner by 1.8 percent, this increase was only 4.4 percent and 0.1 percent, respectively, at Lake Balaton. This increase, as you can see, is not significant and really worrying, especially with regard to the fact that many settlements, such as the capital of Lake Balaton, have seen a decline in Balatonfüred, for example, compared to 2008. What can be said about weak growth is that foreign tourists are mostly absent from Lake Balaton. The summary of Hungarian Tourism Zrt. based on the preliminary data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office is also due to the fact that in 2014 foreign guest nights in the Balaton region were reduced by 1.7 percent. In particular, the number of Germans fell to the greatest extent, but Austrian, Dutch, Russian and Italians arrived less than a year earlier. One Siófok specialist pointed out that the number of guest nights spent by foreigners in commercial accommodation fell from 3 million 300 thousand in 1996 to 1 million 900 thousand in 2013. The decrease is 42 percent, so it can be considered drastic. [[21.30]] Jobbik has long promoted the development of domestic tourism, paying particular attention to the Balaton region. One of our greatest national treasures is Lake Balaton, yet there are signs of neglect in many areas. In many conferences, the development of cycling tourism is announced in a professional conciliation forum, which could dramatically increase the number of guest nights. Instead of talking, however, action would be needed here, as cycling tourism is based on a well-structured bicycle road network, which is the most lacking in developing this sector of tourism. If we really want the cyclists to grow a significant number of guest nights, then we would obviously need to start building the infrastructure immediately, not only in the villages around the lake, but also in the nearby settlements, not too far from the lake, which would also like to take part in and participate in the Balaton tourism. Jobbik has also been promoting the development of health tourism for a long time, which, according to our calculations, would also bring outstanding growth both in national tourism and in the Balaton region. It would also create not negligible new jobs to keep health workers at home, as they could earn much more income in this sector than in public health. Around Lake Balaton, health tourism is still clearly based on the basis of health tourism, and the sector is waiting for adequate support. I am pleased that the study of the Balaton Development Council is also addressing this issue, which Jobbik has long been pushing for. Currently, the water quality of the lake is fully equivalent to the most important bathing tourism at present, and each settlement tries to provide as many events as possible for the resorts, thereby increasing the attractiveness of the settlement. However, it can be seen that it provides tourism around the lake for only a two-month period, and so everything needs to be done to ensure that the season is extended, pushed out, from early spring to late autumn or even in winter as many guests arrive in this region, as it is currently one of the main sources of income for people living here. Whether it is cycling or health tourism or fishing tourism or water sports, the widespread promotion and development of these can provide solutions to problems, which cannot take long to solve, and concrete steps are needed as soon as possible. We do not want to see it anymore, or we believe that it is unacceptable for Lake Balaton to be included in any tourist survey as the last driver, because, once again, it is one of the biggest national treasures of our country, in which there are much greater opportunities than we are currently taking advantage of it. Thank you so much for listening. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-02-20-286	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, also applied for a post-scheduled speech on the introduction of the 9th grade primary school. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-02-20-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At the beginning of February, Antal Rogán's Fidesz-leading idea about the 9th grade primary school received a serious echo. Although we still do not know anything about the details of the proposal, the basic idea is to start a substantive debate about it. The idea of a 9-year-long initial education is not new, it is not new at all, it was raised last time by Zoltán Pokorni during the 2011 educational legislation. Several European countries have previously started successful education reforms by extending initial education. For us, the Polish example in particular provides important lessons, since there the change has achieved meaningful results. According to the LMP, reform of basic training would also be very necessary. The 8-grade primary school structure inherited from socialism is completely obsolete. Initial education is no longer at a low level but must provide complete knowledge, in particular to strengthen and develop basic skills for secondary learning. The Hungarian school system is doing very badly in this regard. Research shows that a fifth and a quarter of the students are functional illiterates from the school bench. School failures will later avenge themselves 100 times in the labour market in view of further prospects for life. The failure of basic training has very serious consequences, both at individual and social level. Extended to 9 years of primary school in a suitable school structure would be much better suited to strengthen basic skills and abilities. At present, the Hungarian primary school wants to teach students to read, write and understand texts too soon. There is not enough time for thorough deepening and training, even though basic skills determine the course of later schooling. Of course, adding a grade to 8 grade primary school alone doesn't solve anything. Even a well-conceived school structure cannot bring about a positive change without considering the related areas. Here we should focus primarily on curricula, textbooks, the autonomy of teachers or the role of the development of individual occupations. This also shows how many other questions arise about the 9th grade primary education. The extension of the primary school may even make the structure of public education affected by the reforms in Hoffmann worse if the reforms in the relevant areas are not discussed, matured and introduced. The school structure or the need for curriculum reform has already been discussed, but other important issues are also emerging. What about secondary education if primary school lasts a year longer? Will your capacity remain or may your training time be reduced to three years, as has already been introduced at vocational schools? The question arises also in the case of a reinforced initial education, whether three years are enough to prepare for graduation and further education. Where does education management even want to direct students, higher education or vocational training? There have been several issues over the past period, but reform of initial education also raises the issue of what will happen to high schools, including 8 and 6 high schools. Or what about the small-town schools? How many years of training will it be mandatory to provide in a small settlement? What about the 16-year sentence? What about public education's public expenditure? And so on. Dear House, Antal Rogán's idea is not yet known whether it was intended to be another distracting rubber bone, or if there is a reform coming up. The introduction of 9 years alone is not a solution, but together with several other measures can be a successful tool for positive change. In particular, it would be necessary to strengthen initial education and to improve the basic skills of students. Possibly Other in Politics would be very supportive of this. The experience of the maintenance model, the regulatory system and the curriculum reform over the past four years clearly demonstrates that there should be no rush, unprepared introduction of anything. It is scary that Antal Rogán would put the new school system in place from 2016. This isn't gonna work. But if you give the right time to develop and discuss details, a good solution could help a great deal in education, in the future in the labour market, ultimately in the whole country's problems. Thank you for the floor. [[Lajos Kepli applauds.]]
u2015-02-20-288	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume the meeting of the Parliament at 11 a.m. on Monday. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:38 p.m.]]
