u2015-11-19-0	Good afternoon. Welcome. The 22nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Nándor Gúr will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Before we begin our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Today is T/7403. and T/7405. I applied for a speech in the course of the negotiation of the series. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, he shall be allowed to hold the meeting at a further stage of the debate or during the decision only if the Parliament agrees. I'm going to ask you if you see any reason why the National Assembly should decide both of these waivers at the same time. [[No signal coming through.]] Since no one has objected to the joint decision, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it consents to the exemption. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws relating to the registration of persons without suffrage will follow until closure. The government referral is T/7394. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the author. Here you go.
u2015-11-19-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The existence of or exclusion from suffrage shall be determined on the basis of the register of non-suffrage citizens. It is therefore of paramount importance that this register contains up-to-date and accurate data of persons who are excluded from the right to vote or who are not passively entitled to vote because of their detention. The register of non-suffering citizens is based on both the register of caregivers led by the National Court Office and the criminal records belonging to the Central Office for Administrative and Electronic Public Services. Based on the experience of recent years, the National Election Office has reported that communication between registers is unsatisfactory and that there are currently shortcomings in the register of caregivers. The purpose of the proposed legislation is therefore to remedy these practical problems. Despite technical clarifications, however, prior to the submission of the proposal, the portfolio considered it important, in accordance with previous practice, to discuss its content with both the parliamentary parties' fractions and the National Court Office, the National Election Office and the Central Office for Administrative and Electronic Public Services. Ladies and gentlemen, By amending the laws contained in the proposal, the National Court Office, which manages the register of caregivers, will be able to manage and use personal IDs for the purposes of carrying out the duties necessary for the registration of caregivers and for the keeping of the records of prior declarations of rights, for the purposes of asking in the personal data and address register, for the automatic data transmission from there, and for the transmission of data to the register of non-suffering citizens, thus ensuring the accuracy of the reporting. In addition, the amendment of the Law on Criminal Records allows the National Election Office to receive the necessary data from the criminal register to update the data contained in the register of non-suffrage citizens. However, it is an important rule that, under the bill, only data relating to the non-suffering of voting rights may be transferred from the criminal record to the register of non-suffering citizens in addition to the personal data of the data subject. The bill also transposes the requirement for automatic data transmission in the electoral procedure law and sets out the data content of the register of non-suffrage citizens. In addition, to remove the distinction between the elected and appointed members of the National Election Committee in respect of the fee. Dear House, Despite their limited scope, the amendments described above represent an important step forward on a number of issues in the accuracy of the register of citizens without voting rights. I therefore ask that the bill be supported in the vote after its discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of Fidesz, Congressman Robert Répássy. Here you go.
u2015-11-19-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the bill and asks the Parliament to do so. I would like to make it clear that the amendment contains largely technical clarifications, but since it concerns a guarantee issue, it concerns the exercise of suffrage, and we must therefore be very careful. I would like to remind you that the new Hungarian Fundamental Law and the new civil code have fundamentally changed the regulation of persons without suffrage, the rules of exclusion from suffrage. Previously, the person placed under the janitorship was automatically excluded from the suffrage, while the new civil code and the Fundamental Law provide that the court should expressly decide whether to exclude a person from the suffrage because of the limitation of the capacity to act. So, for so-called groups of cases, the court decides on the extent of the restriction, and every five years the court has to review the question of whether a person has the right to vote. This is a significant step forward for automatic exclusion, as I said, which was not subject to such periodic review. Now both the merit of the matter and the merit of exercising suffrage have been decided by the court and by the review of at least five years. This is also the case for prisoners who are in prison. In the past, the fact that a person had spent his imprisonment made it impossible to exercise his right to vote. Now the court expressly disallows public affairs from exercising their suffrage or, of course, physical obstacles, such as the duration of imprisonment itself. Dear House, So it concerns a sensitive issue, but it is not these substantive provisions that the bill before us is changing, but rather the register of those without suffrage, the register of caregivers, that the National Election Office should have up-to-date information in order to clarify legally who has the right to vote and who does not at a given moment. Let us consider that this issue may arise not only in the elections but also in the initiative of a referendum. So it is not that we are working for the next elections, but, yes, the Parliament is trying to remedy a current issue in this way. That is why I propose to this House to support the Government's bill. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-4	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2015-11-19-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The proposal deals almost entirely with issues related to the registration of citizens without suffrage, which are basically technical issues. [[9.10]] It is obvious and cannot be disputed that it is of particular importance for the exercise of suffrage that the register contains up-to-date and accurate data on persons excluded from suffrage. In other words, both the janitor's records and the criminal records should properly support the register of those without suffrage. In 2015, the government, as the originator of the law, admits in the image of László Trócsányi, that their aim is to correct the errors and shortcomings currently existing in the register of caregivers. He'll admit that in 2015. He's doing this after three national elections. There is little mention of what these errors really are, but it is bad to even think about how the National Election Office has managed the register of citizens with suffrage in the election last year if it has to make such large changes in this current proposal. On the one hand, I can say with a calm spirit that it is welcome that the National Court Office, which manages the register of caregivers, allows the management of the personal identification and its use in the process of asking and automatically transferring data from it to the register of personal data and the register of non-suffering citizens. This will clearly ensure the accuracy of the reporting and provide guarantees for the legal solution. I would ask the Secretary of State to speak, to sum up the anomalies, the contradictions that are being kept silent when the proposal is being submitted. I also expect an answer from you that if almost all the provisions of the Act on Election Procedure are fundamental, and therefore Article 19. Paragraph 4 of the proposal is also fundamental, but why didn't the government mention it in the proposal 18? § of the fundamental provisions? This is, in our view, a flagrant legislative error. The justification of the proposal itself is as slendrian as it is meaningless, that there is nothing to be surprised about the fundamental error I have just mentioned. The Hungarian Socialist Party objects to a number of provisions of the electoral procedural law. Thus, the patching of two or three withdrawn provisions cannot be supported in any form. The Hungarian Socialist Party's experience with its referendum initiatives does not convince the party that the Patyi András National Election Committee and the Pálffy Ilona National Election Office act legally. They've lost our trust. Their operation is, in our view, illegal and unbiased. We consider it important that suffrage and legislative proposals concerning the electoral procedure should be submitted only in the event of political consensus between parliamentary parties, after the establishment of an appropriate standard text of professional quality and coherence. It is clear that there are a number of fundamental problems of great concern both in the field of electoral law, electoral procedure and referendum law, democratic, violation of the rule of law principles, which I can say with a calm spirit, a common national interest. The Hungarian Socialist Party drew attention to these serious shortcomings even when Fidesz, a two-thirds majority of which were abused, had these laws adopted by the Parliament. We strongly advocated a more proportionate electoral system. Fully developed electoral law - this was T/20. - and a campaign financing proposal - it's T/5267. - we submitted it to the Parliament, but even the series of articles was rejected. There has been complete - I can safely say - government isolation on cooperation and co-thinking. This isolation demonstrates that even our bill for supplementing electoral procedural principles - T/1259. was also swept off without a debate. Where it is based only on previous rules, the prevention of electoral fraud and the possibility of redress, the impartial assessment of these principles would have been included in the current law. While the rules on the registration of non-suffering persons were now being discussed, in 2011 when the electoral system was radically reformed, the then two-thirds majority of government parties did not consider it important to seek consensus on the most fundamental issues of principle. On this basis, the Hungarian Socialist Party rejected the version of the proposal sent to the Secretary of State, Pál Völner, to reconcile the text of the proposal on the subject, and has withdrawn from the disputation of the amendment of the electoral procedural law, as long as it is not possible to formulate proposals on the following issues. In the light of these precedents, we consider it possible to participate the Hungarian Socialist Party in any consultation on the electoral system or on the regulation of the institution of the referendum to be possible if the government's intention is to implement the basic corrections that are really necessary and, accordingly, with the need for the amendment, we can address the following issues. Creating adequate guarantees to eliminate the possibility of abuse in the exercise of the right to vote of Hungarian citizens who are not resident in Hungary, Hungarians from abroad. Hungarian citizens residing in Hungary but residing abroad on the day of the vote - it is typical to say that this is the creation of legislation ensuring the exercise of their suffrage by working abroad, in the same way as Hungarians across the border. Consider the system of plural recommendation. Business parties - they know it, they can look back - are the problem of their departure. This concerns a number of areas ranging from recommendation rules to campaign funding rules. Develop a set of rules for determining the boundaries of constituencies in such a way as to exclude political manipulation. The proposal of an independent professional body that excludes political manipulation should therefore appear. I want it tied to this. Rethinking the rules on fragmentary votes, the elimination of so-called winning compensation, as they recall. Develop rules for the participation of civil society organisations in electoral campaigns. Overview of the rules on the publication of political advertisements during the campaign period. [[9.20]] Review of the full system of rules for referendums - both material and procedural - and extend the system of direct exercise of power. The above issues, which I have mentioned, we believe are worth discussing - I say it is worth it - and it is necessary to conduct a five-party dialogue. If the government is open to this, the Hungarian Socialist Party is ready to negotiate. I would like to point out to Mr Völner that the sending of our letter has resulted in a positive consequence that the provisions making the exercise of the institution of the referendum more difficult have been deleted from the draft and have not been included in the proposal. However, the events of the last few days are once again a sign of disregard for the right to a referendum, the most important instrument of direct exercise of power, and this is not the best sign for the exercise of power in the form of a democratic mark. For this amendment of the electoral procedural law, we consider that the government has dug up a hole in the proposal. The National Election Office undertakes only the following: the National Election Office demonstrates the maintenance of the register of non-suffering citizens for the purpose of registering the change of data for the purposes of registering the identity and address data of the citizens covered by the personal data and address register on a regular basis from the personal data and address register. On the basis of this, there is no solution for voters who are not in the personal data and address register, on the one hand, or who are in the personal data and address register, on the other hand, there is no provision - for example - for anyone to notify the personal data and address register of the unfortunate death of a Hungarian citizen residing in Transylvania. This provision, which seems to be technical, will be very relevant. It legitimizes the amazing situation that even dead souls will vote because of the voting package and the lack of re-registration. There's no way in public law that dead souls can vote for any vote. This is obviously not possible at home because of personal appearance, but the voting package may be a breeding ground or, where appropriate, a fraud. Dear Parliament, Mr President, On this basis, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group cannot support the proposal. The provisions requiring a fundamental majority are not only outrageous, but the government initiating the law does not even bother to respond to the inoperable solutions of the electoral procedural law. If the electoral procedural law is amended now, the opposition, I quote, can be sure that this subject will never come up again in this cycle, this subject. In 2018, you will be able to point your finger at the current days, the autumn of 2015, when the amendment was so to speak. But what is it, really? In fact, three cases are less significant, but small compared to the problems of the electoral procedural law. I'll make one more comment. We must refuse to pay the members of the National Election Committee who have been appointed to pay them. Thank you for your attention, and I ask you to take into account and take into account in the legislative agenda everything we have put forward as a proposal. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Gábor Staudt, lead speaker of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here.
u2015-11-19-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I have prepared a shorter speech than my colleague speaking before me in MSZP. Honestly, I'm a little embarrassed because it's mostly not what we just said. It is not possible to accuse me - I think my fellow Members with Fidesz present can confirm - that I would be soft-handed to the Fides, if we see points in the proposal before us that can be attacked, or the possibility of opening a loophole, then we will criticize the proposals as hard as possible and strike them down, but we must definitely stay on the subject, at least as a Member of Parliament I have always said that what we are saying should be connected to the referral in some way or in some way. If someone is following the Parliament's meeting, it is important to say this because we are basically talking about the register of persons without suffrage, amending this. Basically, technical amendments are included in the proposal submitted. I stress this because if someone has not read the proposal - I will also surround the socialists in this, by the way - because there is much to talk about here, but let us not misunderstand the material before us, and what I am about to say is more connected to what is ahead of us than to voting and referendum questions in general. Once again, I think it is important to say this because we in this proposal have not found such things as the socialists have said, nor have they, but because of their other problems, so en bloc has formulated their criticism because of their problems affecting the electoral system. The proposal was sent three weeks ago by the Justice Department. I must say that we are pleased that it has been sent earlier, and we would still be waiting in the future, Mr Secretary, to receive an invitation to similar consultations and to receive the drafts in advance. We made two suggestions. One was technical and the other was content-technical. So the socialists did, too, because our point of view was that the provisions concerning the law on the referendum procedure - some provisions were included in this proposal - should not now be brought before the Parliament in this form, regardless of its content, as they are not related to the issue of registering persons with no right to vote. This has also been taken out - this has also been said by the Member before me - and I must say, in fact, that only questions concerning those who do not have the right to vote have been dealt with. And it has also been said to me, not once, that this is actually limited to criminal records and the registration of caregivers, and that it amends technical provisions. By the way, I would have expected from my fellow Member who spoke before me what are the cardinal problems in this area that would have affected the elections in substance or so much as to talk about election fraud or abuse. I am glad that if there were such technical problems, they will be corrected. Of course, it can be found in electoral law - it must and must be corrected - but I do not think it is fortunate to raise them on this agenda. To sum up: so that the parts on the referendum procedure are removed and, in fact, we only have to decide that the systems of the criminal record and the register of caregivers can be turned on more effectively by the legislation to the electoral bodies, we see nothing wrong with that. Of course, let us wait for the amendments, because the amendment can come in at any time in a negative sense, and of course we will also look at the amendments tabled by the opposition, but in this form, if only it is to be decided, and the Parliament must decide what has been presented to it, in this form we see no objection to supporting it. [[9.30]] But, of course, we follow the debate with interest, and if we are convinced, from any side, from a point of view that needs to be added, we will also appreciate those amendments. But that's all I've been able to tell you about this technical proposal. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-19-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent Member is present in the Chamber, no two-minute speeches have been made, and no one has indicated in writing their intention to speak. It is therefore possible for ordinary representatives to speak. Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz, please.
u2015-11-19-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly. I understand that if an opposition representative or opposition party sees the right to suffrage written somewhere, then all the ideas about suffrage will immediately emerge here. However, I must agree that somewhere in Parliament there is a timetable, there is a procedure, and this procedure should be kept. The speech that we have heard in a speech before the agenda could be summarised quite well with a little sanding and a change. Obviously, the electoral law is not flawless either, but I think, and that is why I asked for the floor, I think it is a very important step that the government, the alliance to which I belong, is monitoring all the vibrations about suffrage that need to be taken into account in order to ensure that the right to vote in the next election is no longer impeccable and in any way in such a way that anyone can later refer to the fact that it has affected the result. This proposal, which is here before us, as far as I have read and read, is of a very technical nature to me. These technical changes are fundamentally linked to what Mr Répássy has said, and which changes, I think, will clarify a question that concerns another area, including suffrage, is about reconciling it. I therefore think that both the government and the opposition can wholeheartedly support this. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-19-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, asked for a two-minute speech. I am saying this because it will reach its place and it will be able to hold its speech from its seat. Here.
u2015-11-19-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your help, too, until I get to the microphone. My fellow Member, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, and everyone else who gives an opinion on the correction of the electoral law, now in relation to those questions of detail, I think it is also his responsibility, and I think it is also his responsibility to draw attention to, or raise awareness of, fundamental maladministration. Look, I don't have anything else to say, and I don't want to say: in relation to the system of elections, in relation to suffrage, I think that if we don't call attention to what problems, problems, and we don't tell the government that, with this, in terms of solving fundamental problems and problems, if it develops a negotiating position with opposition parties, then there is something to talk about. It is not necessary to make some minimum corrections in this respect, but to change the subject of major issues such as those mentioned above, the issue of the start-up of business parties and business parties in the use of the common language. They either remember, after the elections, processes in terms of accounts and many other things, or processes that are not taking place. Everything that eliminates the possibility of abuse and creates guarantees, I think we need to draw attention here as well. It is simply because if we do not do it now, then you will think by 2018 that this story is over, it does not have to be dealt with, because it has been discussed within the walls of Parliament, it has been approved and supported by the parliamentary opposition parties, so everything is as it is. No, ladies and gentlemen, everything is not as well as you think. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-19-12	This is a speech requesting a normal word, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2015-11-19-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in any legislative amendment concerning the law on suffrage or this specific law, I think it would be possible for Fidesz to correct the injustice that it committed at the time of the previous amendment. That is what my colleague Nándor Gúr referred to. What we see here is that not only the possibility of various abuses has not been eliminated in this rule, in this electoral procedure legislation, but also other loopholes and, to say the least, difficult circumstances have been put in earlier, which limit the possibility and scope of opposition parties. This is true of the business parties, as I have just mentioned, Nándor Gúr said about it, it is true to define the boundaries of constituencies or the principle of winning compensation, or even in the media during the campaign period, what opportunities there are for various parties to appear. This is important because you should also see what Fidesz is planning for the next period. After all, there are rumors, there are news, and then, I suppose, they can disprove this by the Fidesz Members, or they will disprove me, which I hope will raise new ideas from Fidesz about how, for example, the districts of Budapest could be manipulated, transformed, and certain districts could be eliminated, where appropriate, to rewrite the electoral rights system in Budapest. I think this would, or might, apply to other large rural cities in terms of municipal elections. So, overall, I just wanted to say briefly that there is something to change about the electoral law, there is something to do and how to make it fairer. Technical changes are also important, many of which are in this law, but the fundamental problem with the electoral law has not been modified, changed, and the various calculations and estimates have shown that in the previous elections the electoral law system itself gave the winner about six mandates. I find this kind of winning compensation unacceptable in this way, in this form. We would therefore ask the governing party to talk about this long before the elections, in order to achieve a legislative or legislative amendment, such as that proposed by the Council of Europe through the Venice Commission or as a recommendation in the various reports of the Council of Europe. These errors should be eliminated in order to say that one hundred percent of Hungary's elections are free and fair. So we would ask the governing party to consider that, long before the elections, an amendment could be made to transform the electoral rights system according to international standards and make this system fairer for all parties. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-19-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Two-minute speech, Congressman Répássy Róbert, Fidesz.
u2015-11-19-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not want to make the mistake of having a voter's rights debate, while we are talking about a very narrow electoral procedure, a technical issue. But let me make two comments, too, Congressman Mesterházy and Nándor Gúr. The definition of electoral geography, i.e. the boundaries of constituencies, has, in my opinion, favored the opposition. In 2010, the current government coalition gained a two-thirds majority by winning two individual districts out of 176 by the current opposition, while in 2014 the Socialist Party gained 10 individual mandates out of 106 individual districts. It is worth considering to you whether the old electoral system in force in 2010 or the new electoral system has benefited you, the opposition. So this is a fundamental mistake, and I argue with this position everywhere. My second comment was this: Attila Mesterházy said that it was terrible that the winner had six seats more because of the electoral system. Well, in the Greek electoral system, the winner gets 50 seats. So the winner is compensated, even if there is a difference of up to 0.1 per cent, by giving the winner more than 50 mandates for steering. [[9.40]] So, returning to the question of those excluded from suffrage, the new Fundamental Law, the Civil Code and the Criminal Code have all given citizens more rights, since exclusion from suffrage is only possible on the basis of a judicial, specific court decision, not automatically. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-19-16	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, two minutes!
u2015-11-19-17	I didn't want to tell you any more, but then I'd have to respond. As you have rewritten the boundaries of the electoral districts, it is called Gerrymandering in English, so that the various constituencies will be transformed in such a way as to be favourable to you. So it is not that you wanted to help us, purely out of genuine Christian love, to improve the opposition, and therefore to transform the electoral rights system in such a way that it responds to the opposition's specific needs and makes up our expectations. No, Congressman Répássy, this was the other way around: they made a system of voting rights that helped you. That the system of voting rights was better in 2010 or 2014, he recommended that we consider this. I should like to tell you that we have thought about this a long time ago - the system of voting rights in 2010 is better for the Hungarian Socialist Party, and I think for the other parties as well as for the country. I would not agree to the justification for this, but our homework has been done, if I may say so, and we have considered this question. I think that the 2010 system, with some corrections, was not perfect either, but it would certainly have served the free and fair electoral system better. The other thing is, I didn't say it was horrible, I said it was unfair. And I did not say that there is no system in the world where the winner is compensated with more than one, I just said that this is a change compared to the previous Hungarian system, which has indeed distorted the justice of this system based on previous Hungarian traditions, customs and political arrangements, in a way that is good for you. And since then, a thousand such laws have been passed, which are about to be good for you and everyone else to bear it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-19-18	Thank you very much. Normal speeches will follow. First of all, Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz. Here.
u2015-11-19-19	Thank you very much for the floor. I am obliged to respond to the contributions of MSZP representatives in relation to winning and losing compensation. In 2014, if there is no winning compensation, Fidesz will, in fact, receive two fewer list mandates. But if there is no winning or losing compensation, Fidesz-KDNP has five more compensatory or - national list - national list mandates. You can count on that, by the way. So if there is only a link between the vote cast on the individual representative and the vote cast on the list that the person who obtained the mandate of individual representatives is eliminated from the list, then Fidesz-KDNP has five more mandates from the national list in 2014. This can be calculated, it is on the vantas.hu website. So it's obvious. As regards the restructuring of the municipal electoral districts, it is clear from the law that the municipal representatives' districts established in 2014 can be converted. That is, if the number of voters varies by 20 percent per district and otherwise there is no way to transform it. Thank you very much, that's all I wanted. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-19-20	Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP!
u2015-11-19-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not wish to take the 15 minutes, but I would like to renew or supplement some of the ideas. When my fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, concerns the issue of winning compensation, he takes out one element of that - and this, to you, to say the least, results in an unfair advantage - but this story can be paired with the addition of countless other elements. Look, our fundamental problem is that we are now proposing an amendment to the law that is not content, and then our fear, perhaps rightly, that they will refer to it later, but that you have dealt with this electoral law even in this term. So what will the parties want here in 2017, one year before the election, to make any corrections? While not dealing with content matters, they do not want to prevent any clear, clearly visible abuses in front of you. I have given a specific example, and they deny that if this is not the case: in the case of Hungarian citizens who are not resident in Hungary, the possibility of voting for the dead souls I have mentioned is based on the possibility of fraud. Do not say that you do not see this; do not say that you are unable to accept, accept and understand what I am saying in this regard. Don't say it, because then they are absolutely wrong! And speaking of votes across the border, it is indeed necessary to mention the unacceptable distinction that you make between those residing in Hungary and those not resident in Hungary. You know, I'm talking about that 600,000 people. Not $50, $500, $5,000 - no! I'm talking about the 600 thousand people who are abroad, basically doing work, and they, like those from across the border, couldn't vote in a letter. How could those 600,000 people vote? He could have gone to foreign representations there... [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Same as in 2010.]] [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Same as in 2010.]] There was a fellow Member who had to travel between 80 and 100 kilometers to see (Dr. Robert Répássy: Same as in 2010!) You can put down a vote. 2010 and 2014 are quite different. I am only telling my fellow Member, former Secretary of State, Répássy, that it is worth a little research. In 2010, you know, the number of workers who left Hungary abroad was a fraction of what they are now. Now 600,000 people, thanks to you - I don't want to go into this story, but thanks to you - had to leave the country so that his family and his family could make a living. Because you just lied to people about the existence of a million new jobs in the economy, and in the meantime, we see what happened, bringing people back in statistics. The point is, I'm not going on another course, I just mentioned this one thought because Secretary of State Répássy brought up an approach from 2010-2014. You know, the difference is that in 2010 the number of people currently working abroad has not reached one-eighth. You were absolutely insensitive when, within the political side, not one of the opposition factions, but most of them clearly expressed the view that the same powers should apply to people residing in Hungary, but working abroad, as to those who do not reside in Hungary. So it's just tiny, tiny anomalies, contradictions in this system that need to be resolved. If you think even a little decently and want to provide an opportunity for those who are not at home during the voting period, and therefore obviously, or not obviously, but are unlikely to be able to come or come home, they can vote on the same letter format as Hungarian citizens who are not resident in Hungary. And then, just in order to subtract the quote-marked production experience, as well as the consequences, with great respect, I ask you to have the toolbox and the opportunity to see how many of those 600 thousand people voted. Check it out. And look at the proportion of votes cast, as reflected in Hungary's willingness to vote on behalf of Hungarian citizens. [[9.50]] And if you don't find a significant difference between the two voting rates, you can say to my face that I'm wrong. But, you know, you're going to discover a huge difference, and you don't want to eliminate that difference because you're afraid of the truth, because you're afraid that people think the same thing, a far-reaching majority of people think, as I think, and many others do, that they didn't have to do their work on their own terms at different points in Europe, but because of what you've done in the last five years in this country. One word, as a hundred, you believe that you would lose or not win votes there, and therefore do not show the slightest willingness to make changes in this respect. Do you know what this is? It's dishonesty! This is no longer a matter of dishonesty, because they do not wish to grant the license to the Hungarian citizen who has a Hungarian residence, but who does his work abroad, as they do to Hungarian citizens living outside Hungary who do not have a Hungarian residence. Well, that's it. This was an example again, in addition to what my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy talked about. But in the same way, it would be possible to go through the business parties in detail, you know, in respect of which a multitude of votes were tried to be taken, virtually invalidated from the votes cast on the opposition's side. You know, you have had the opportunity and the opportunity to review the system of these votes and recommendations before the vote. They didn't. Why didn't they? They had the opportunity, obviously because their political interests override everything, everything. I am not going any further in these matters, I just want to say that, because we are striving for a decent draft law to be drafted, without the possibility of abuse, a draft electoral law is not in the political interest of a faction or political tendency. No, it's for all of us! This should be considered on the basis that we want clean, fair results and results reflecting the will of the electorate in the elections. My fellow Member, Mr Répássy, has done the dissection of the boundaries of the constituencies. Look, my fellow Member, Répássy, I am giving you an example that you know very well. He knows Miskolc well because he lived in the city of Miskolc. In Miskolc, there was an example, either in the parliamentary elections or in the municipal elections, of dividing the areas by, say, separating the stairwells for a panel house with four or six stairwells in terms of electoral districts. What if it wasn't a massive change in your personal political interests? ! Maybe I don't have to tell you any better examples than that. And then I will conclude by saying that it is worth looking at what my fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, said, on this winning compensation story, but also on how and under what rules civil society organisations have worked in terms of participation in the election campaign. I can go into details, and then we can talk about these issues, but I don't think you have to talk, you know that, you just want to deny it, even in front of you. I do not overdo it, I want to say that we need a electoral law that reflects the will of the Hungarian people and does not need to manipulate the development of the situation through the draft law. I ask you with great respect for this reason to accept the initiative that the Hungarian Socialist Party is open, ready to negotiate, but these issues must be placed on the table, these issues must be dissected in the very essence, and a political consensus, which reflects a clear result based on people's intentions, and nothing else. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-19-22	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Of course, I will continue to give the floor to the Members who have asked to speak, but on the basis of the house rules, I must draw their attention to the general discussion of the bill amending certain laws relating to the registration of persons who do not have the right to vote. I'm asking you to do me the courtesy of taking all this into account. Congressman Robert Répássy, Fidesz.
u2015-11-19-23	Mr President, I fully respect your sitting, but given the fact that Nándor Gúr has been given 11 minutes on a matter unrelated to the subject of the agenda, [[Nándor Gúr: Absolutely coherent.]] express your opinion, so give me at least one short answer. [[Attila Mesterházy: Have a coffee!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the two former presidents of the Hungarian Socialist Party are sitting in the Chamber, a historic moment, and the leaders of the Socialist Party are serious about losing elections twice in a row because they were not favoured by the electoral law. They cannot explain that they lost the same proportion in 2010 and lost the same proportion in 2014. And until you understand that you have lost the elections not because the electoral law has changed, but because you do not support your politics by the majority of voters, you will not rise from this ten percent low point. But that's not my job, I just want you to stop accusing us of amending the electoral law, when you have twice in a row, in two different electoral systems, and twice in a row, four years apart, almost the same results have been repeated. As far as your arguments are concerned, I have just told you, I hate to repeat myself, but if Attila Mesterházy doesn't believe me, look at the results, but I don't believe in a Gerrymandering that would work so that his inventor who introduces this election geography will achieve a less favourable election than in the previous election. So I told you to think about why in 2010 the Socialist Party was able to win in 2 out of 176 divisions, while in 2014 they won in 10 districts. Obviously, their position is wrong that this is the result of electoral geography. An example of electoral imbalance is that in the 2010 elections there was a settlement in Pest county where elections could be won by 70,000 votes, and there was a constituency, such as Veszprém County, where there were only 26 thousand. So there were pretty big differences, which is why we had to change the constituency. And once again, I would be very happy to hear all your objections to the new voting rights system, just ask yourself this question: how is it that, in the 2010 electoral system that you consider to be fair, you lost the elections as much as in 2014? Couldn't the mistake be in you? Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-24	Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2015-11-19-25	Thank you very much for your concern for the Socialist Party, and I am honored in any way. He's probably frustrated by the fact that he's no longer a secretary of state. [[Fidesz ravings, edifications, and interrogations.]] But I think, and I wanted to apply the argument, which Mr Répássy also referred to, that we lost the elections in 2010 because people wanted to replace the government. So it would have been pretty much any voting rights system, if it hadn't been a dictatorship, then the then government would have been replaced in that electoral system. In fact, I also claim that if the Fidesz is to be replaced, and I'm sure that will happen, because nothing lasts forever, then this could go back on the electoral system, and there should be no misunderstanding. So he can punish you the same way, and then when the will of the people doesn't want to judge the fate of the elections. But still, Mr. Répássy, the system can be unfair. So even if we win the elections, either you or another party, the system itself can be unfair and fair in absolute terms, free and fair. So I think that what we talked about is not about why we lost the elections. We'll have to do that homework, not you. And you're working on how to maintain power, and I'm not saying that in a negative way. So we were just talking about whether, regardless of what people want, the system could be one of them or one of them, and that's what the criticism was all about. By the way, your criticism confirms this, because in 2010 we did win in two places, once again, in circumstances where they wanted to replace the government. [[10.00]] Indeed, the joint candidate won in several places in 2014, but please, this was not because of the voting rights system, but because by then you were not so much loved that people did not want to replace you in certain places. There is also a political reason for this, and there should be no misunderstanding, and the system of voting rights has relatively less to do with it, in my opinion. But to say one or two specific things, some of which will also have to be discussed in your group, because on these issues, which I am listing, Fidesz politicians have said, your colleagues are really criteria or criticisms that are worth considering. Such is the registration of Hungarians across the border, such as the issue of campaign financing, such as public advertising. I guess Simicska doesn't play anymore, so it's worth changing. This is the question of letter votes, because it actually quotes North Korea that 90 percent of the letter votes have been passed on to Fidesz. Even if they judge their party so fantasticly, it's interesting that in a democracy, 90 percent vote for Fidesz. In fact, one of your colleagues said that he would also be in favour of drawing the borders, which means the boundaries of the current constituency, if, by the law referred to by my fellow Member Vas Imre, there was a change, and it could easily change, if not because of migration within the country, he would also want an independent body to do it. For four years, the MSZP has asked that if we touch such a question, it should be either a five-party consensus, or an ikszpal consensus, or an independent body that everyone can accept. It's a new color in Fidesz communication, a new argument that you can accept. We also need to discuss what is going on with these business parties, as you have already said this critically after the elections. Please, it cost the taxpayers billions of forints that so-called fake parties set off with fake candidates and received hundreds of millions of forints per party. This is not a democracy, Mr Congressman, because democracy is that everyone can be nominated and be independent, it is called democracy. The knowingly giving various parties the opportunity to manipulate elections by creating loopholes, to live well, its participants or organisers in the coming years, and after that, there is no consequence of spending 600-700 million forints of taxpayers' money, I think this is not okay, and a little more attention needs to be given. Democracy would mean that this is how we pay attention. The other one, which is also interesting, and I'm sure it's an interesting question for law enforcement colleagues that I sued the C.E.F. some time ago. I won first degree, I lost second degree. What's interesting is the court's argument, and it's not about the person. The court argued that the CÖF was in fact merely making political statements when it was dirtying the various leaders of the opposition on the billboards. Well, we said we understand, and I have to deal with political expression as a public figure. That's perfectly all right. But if the court then put in the explanatory statement - and this is what my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, referred to - that you have outsourced the negative campaign into the civil organisation framework, and that no one there has accounted for how much money was spent on it, where did you get the money from, as it happens in the parties and candidates, in the strict and correct way, then, when you wrote down in the second-degree justification that I should bear this kind of expression, because it is a political expression, and then, for reasons of particular public benefit, I report the CÖF to the prosecutor's office that this high-ranking public benefit status exists, if it is a political campaign, then the prosecutor's answer was that everything is fine here. You know, my fellow Member, if this weren't C.O.F., it would be a politically self-employed group, i.e. p.B. Then they could do it. But if this is a highly public benefit organization, then you can't do that by hiding campaign funding behind such an organization. So, so much for how fair it is, and from now on, I'm really holding back, too, and I'm not talking to him anymore. Thank you.
u2015-11-19-26	I see a sign of noble resolve. I would like to say this by drawing your attention once before to the correct interpretation of the house rules, but I do not restrict your speeches. Now there seems to be a consensus that more Members do not wish to comment. And I'm reading this information off the monitor, but I'm still going to ask you, by the house, if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is therefore closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to react.
u2015-11-19-27	Mr. President. At the beginning, Congressman Gúr spoke to me and said that he wanted some answers.
u2015-11-19-28	Please, you have the opportunity. Here you go.
u2015-11-19-29	On the one hand, what he raised was the 18th. There will be another five-party discussion next Wednesday on the subject of the article. But obviously, if such a problem has gone wrong with different versions, it will be manageable with a modification. So if this comes up at the conciliation, then you should be aware of this observation. Thank you very much for finding a compromise with the rapporteur, for example, with the exception of the part of the referendum, it was considered that we could really talk about meaningful consultation. I was very sorry that Mr Gúr had indeed taken the debate in a direction that was not entirely on the subject. A few questions have been asked. To a large extent, my fellow Members have answered each other. About business parties, I hope I don't see a party in Parliament, or if I do, it's been here for a long time. So, in this context, democracy does not seem to be distorted. About the basic problem itself, which was also a substantive issue, the National Election Office indicated in the summer that this registration system was not up to date, and that is why this amendment is here before this House. As regards the comparison between the different electoral procedural law and electoral law, I do not think that now is the time to explain to the MSZP the 2010 or 2014 certificates. That's how it seemed to me, so it wasn't on the agenda, unfortunately. But overall, thank you very much for the contributions of my fellow Members, and I ask for the support of the proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-19-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain national defence laws until closure. The government referral is T/7400. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, the author. Here you go.
u2015-11-19-31	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In September, the Parliament voted in favour of CXIII of 2011 on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and on measures that could be introduced in a special legal order by a spectacular majority of more than two thirds. Law and its amendment. The new mission of the defence has been extended accordingly. The Defence Act therefore states that, in addition to its existing tasks, the defence forces will assist the police at the time of the declaration of the crisis caused by mass immigration, i.e. carry out an auxiliary role in the surveillance of the state border, in the implementation of the conflict situation directly threatening the state border and the measures necessary to deal with mass migration, and in the prevention of acts of violence against the state border order. It follows from this that the Hungarian Defence Forces have had unplanned additional tasks. What is the additional task of the Hungarian Defence Forces is the personal additional service of the Hungarian military and civil servants. We can see that the protection of Hungary and the borders of the European Union is not a closed case. The number of immigrants is not falling, and if other countries, as we have seen, realise that Hungary is on the right track, other states are closing the green borders, the pressure on the southern border of our country will be strengthened again. Accordingly, this package of laws seeks to amend several laws, namely directly or indirectly, to deal with the additional burden. The amended laws in this package are the following: Article XXXIII of 1990 on the status of civil servants. Act CLIX of 1997 on armed security, nature conservation and field watch. Law 1 and the 2012 CCV on the status of military defenders. Law No. 1. [[10.10]] One of the objectives of the bill was to amend the special sectoral provisions for civil servants employed by the Hungarian Defence Office and the relevant law enforcement bodies. Civil servants employed in the Hungarian Defence Office and in law enforcement bodies may be exempted from their duties under the permission of the employer. The period exempted under this title shall be considered as working time for the purposes of entitlement to leave and shall entitle civil servants to a leave of absence fee. This amendment will increase employers' ability to organise working time by a new organisational instrument, in line with other public sector status laws, which also include a similar title for exemption from the obligation to work. At the same time, if the Parliament decides, the employer and the employee could, by agreement, depart from the annual time limit for extraordinary work and the current restrictions on the extent of extraordinary work that can be ordered weekly. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure more flexibility in the safe performance of these tasks by the provisions on the working time of civil servants employed in the defence, in so far as they are personally involved in disaster management tasks or in the management of the crisis caused by mass immigration. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the employer cannot continue to make a unilateral decision, which can only be done on the basis of a joint agreement. The proposal also aims at enabling specific defence facilities to be protected by the existing armed security guard using specific certification requirements that match the sectoral stock tables. The practical aim is that, following its training, the personnel of this armed security guard will be able to temporarily or partially relieve the personnel remaining in the military property instead of those deployed at the southern border due to the crisis declared. In addition, the proposal aims to clarify certain legal issues based on the experience of the Hungarian Defence Office over the past two months. The performance of the task of our defence officers in connection with crisis management necessarily involves the use of a significant number of personnel with increased intensity and delay in time, and may continue in the future. Accordingly, it has become necessary to supplement the law in order to make the framework for the provision of exceptional and special tasks more flexible. According to this proposal, the application of the provisions relating to the management of the crisis situation caused by mass immigration and to the provision of the staff of the Hungarian Defence Office involved in the performance of its contribution to disaster protection tasks may be suspended in order to make the personal framework for this special task provision more flexible. The applicable arrangements for the organisation of work shall be laid down by the military magistrate responsible for the organisation of the service in the light of the interests of service, in particular the interests of the safe provision of the service and the necessity and proportionality of restrictions on rights. Ladies and gentlemen, Defence - in addition to protecting Hungary's borders and protecting Hungary's borders - is also a national matter. And if we can believe the news and information published in the press, it is possible that one of the bombers in Paris could have arrived in Europe from Syria through Greece in October. The passports we found at the crime scene may refer to this, and that should give us all some thought. After all, we are living in critical times, and although there was no reason to announce the special legal order involving the restriction of citizens' rights, Hungarian people expect us to protect Hungary from the taxpayers' money, public money, and the police and defence of their money, and to do so so so that Hungarian citizens, Hungarian people, as far as possible, feel nothing of it. In times of crisis, crisis management is needed. I therefore ask you to support our efforts to ensure that the successful service and service organisation of our countrymen, defence, as we all have in common national affairs, is also a joint success. In view of the objectives set out in the bill, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the lead speaker, the first among which will be the lead speaker of Fidesz, Congressman Vas Imre. Here.
u2015-11-19-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, While tens of thousands of migrants arrive in Europe every day without controls, Hungary has already responded to this situation in time. The Hungarian Defence Office, on behalf of the government, has built a security barrier to its southern border in the shortest time, and today we have arrived at the fact that, despite the many criticisms and strong comments, several countries are interested in the details of the construction of the border seal, because several countries would also try to frame the migration flood by means of a fence. Undoubtedly, the additional tasks of the Hungarian Defence Forces have not been planned so far due to the previous situation and the current situation. On behalf of myself and the Fidesz faction, I would like to thank the Hungarian soldiers for the sacrifice and, indeed, for their hard but successful work, which they have done for Hungary, and also for the order of the borders of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is to ensure more flexibility for the safe performance of tasks under a joint agreement, provided that provisions on the working order of the military and civil servants in the defence sector are personally involved in disaster management tasks or in the management of the crisis caused by mass immigration. A further amendment to the bill compared to the previous one is that it would relieve with armed security the burden of defence burdened by a crisis, as the Secretary of State has said, in the preservation of certain defence objects, so that the defence system functions better and more effectively. In addition to the above, the proposal aims to clarify certain legal issues based on experience with the involvement of the Hungarian Defence Forces in disaster management tasks and the introduction and first application of the legal institution of the crisis caused by mass immigration. CXIII of 2011 on measures that may be imposed in the special legal order. According to law, the performance of its contribution to the management of the crisis caused by mass immigration may necessarily involve the use of a significant number of staff with increased intensity, which is prolonged in time. Given the objective size of the personal conditions available and the considerable amount of tasks to be carried out, it was therefore necessary to supplement the relevant chapter of the Law on the Status of Patrons in order to make the personal framework for exceptional and special tasks more flexible. Ladies and gentlemen, Defence is a national matter. Crisis management solutions are needed in critical times. In view of the objectives set out in the bill, the Fidesz fraction supports the proposal. I'm asking for your support. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2015-11-19-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly summarise this amendment to the law that lies before us: the last of the insolence. And if they really appreciated the work of soldiers and the work of defence workers, then such a proposal could not have come before the House, which was spoken of by the Secretary of State and by my fellow Member, Mr Vas Imre. In short, it is about the fact that in the last five years the work that should have been done has not been done, and not only has not been done, but it has been specifically dismantled by the Hungarian Defence Forces, it has taken huge resources away from the Hungarian Defence Forces, and now that we are actually talking about additional tasks and tasks, and our security policy environment is changing, they realize that something needs to be done. [[10.20]] And, by the way, very nicely, Mr Secretary of State and Congress said that defence is a national matter. I'm guessing the Defense Act is number one. § (1) has been read. I would like this to be not only the letter of the law, but also the true truth. And if this task has not been completed for five years, and we have constantly drawn attention to the fact that the government is actually doing serious things, then - I really hope - they will at least start now. But not in this way, as we see in this bill. What is this bill about? In the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration, make the framework for the provision of tasks so to speak more flexible. Now, this is about the extravagance of soldiers and military workers, who are still outnumbered and on the brink of their performance, being extremely burdened with increased tasks. The fact is that we are talking about people who have a different and higher stamina and performance than the average citizen, but nevertheless they are overloaded, and from now on this proposal would make them almost unlimited. What's this about? On the basis of this proposal, the parties may, by written agreement, derogate from the provisions of the Labour Code, which are as follows: the employee's weekly working time per function shall be no more than 48 hours; in the case of full daily working hours, an extraordinary working time shall be 250 hours per calendar year; a maximum of 300 hours per year may be ordered by collective agreement; working time under such agreement shall not be taken into account for the annual limit of extraordinary working hours; the duration shall be recorded by the employer separately from the exceptional work related to other job tasks; the duration shall be no more than 832 hours per calendar year in addition to normal working time and special working hours in relation to other job tasks. Thus, in the case of civil servants, these provisions of the Labour Code are waived. In the case of soldiers, the following provisions of the Law on the Status of Patrols may be suspended: rules on conduct; rules on the duration of service; provisions on time of service, including inter-work breaks, rest periods, rest days, public holidays, over-services, watch, watch and standby services. So they can all be suspended. So I think that the desire to deviate so much from the rules on working time and rest during a period of peace is quite amazing. And this is particularly shocking in the light of the fact that the crisis caused by mass immigration can last for a very long time. Thus, in the case of civil servants, the maximum number of 832 hours, which is 104 working days, means that, given that there are 52 weeks in a year, even the public servant can be continuously worked from 1 January to 31 December. It is extremely cynical to expect the public servant to agree to this, since the proposal makes the enforcement of these rules conditional on the agreement of the parties. And I don't think anyone would believe that it's really up to the public servant to do this. It is also extremely revealing that the Hst. According to Secretary of State Károly Kontrat, an increase in the maximum over-service for law enforcement agencies to 416 hours is not a tightening of the bill, which was already here before the House, as the current law also provides 350 hours of mandatory and 60 hours of voluntary over-service. So this is an absolutely good example of and shows how voluntary the Ministry of the Interior believes that over-service is. It is unacceptable that, in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration, the provisions of the Act on the Status of Patrols concerning service performance and rest periods can be completely overwritten and replaced by the command of the commander in charge of the organisation of services. In peacetime, such a suspension of laws is a complete mockery of the rule of law. In particular, it is unacceptable that it is possible to derogate not only from the rules on over-service but also from the rules on compensation for it. I would like to switch to another provision of the bill. The premises of the economic companies of the CBI and the Ministry of Defence may also be guarded by armed security guards, as you said, Mr. Secretary of State. The provisions on members of such armed security guards raised a number of questions, and I would like to highlight one thing and clarify in the context of the bill, and that there is a turning point at this stage that is possible with it. It is therefore not clear whether they are actually imposing additional requirements or, on the contrary, mitigating the main rule of application. So, to sum up, the most important elements are that it is unacceptable for both civil servants and soldiers to be deprived of their existing rights at this level, so to speak. It is natural that we will submit an amending proposal, because this is absolutely unacceptable in this form as it is. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Defence Act, which is a two-thirds law, also sets out how to derogate from the provisions on the service of soldiers in a special legal order. In this Regulation, different from the period of peace, it is possible to establish, inter alia, appointment and dismissal, transfer, management, secondment, care, freedom, disciplinary responsibility, unfairness and other rules of the service. Thus, even in a special legal order, the regulations of the Defence Council, the President of the Republic and the Government and not the superior responsible for the organisation of the service determine the rules governing the service. And if such a restriction is not allowed by the Fundamental Law and the relevant two-thirds fundamental law in a special legal order, then it is quite clear that this is not possible in peacetime either. Mr Secretary of State spoke about the protection of the country and the protection of Europe. I find it absolutely scandalous that the Fidesz faction and the government speak of protection, because defence and security begin with responsible defence policies; it begins with the fact that they do not drastically undermine the capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces, the Hungarian Defence Office is not struggling with such a huge shortage of personnel as it is now, but they are preparing for increased tasks either with a forward-looking policy and responsibility, planning and adequate provision of resources, or that it is almost clear that one of the cornerstones of the defence is that the Hungarian Defence Office is able to function properly, and that continuous improvements are being made. Let's look at what has happened in the last five years, because yesterday the Fidesz faction wrote in a statement that the civilian government has constantly increased the resources that can be used for protection over the past five years. Then let's see what the figures are: in 2010, the budget was 1.06 per cent of GDP; in 2011 0.97 per cent; in 2012 0.81 per cent; in 2013 0.77 per cent; in 2015 only 0.75 per cent. My fellow Members, what is this, if not a reduction? ! And, of course, it has not only decreased by a percentage, but it also makes it more than HUF 200 billion that has been withdrawn from the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in the last five years. So that's what the government says, he's increased the budget. And I would like to remind all the Fidesz MEPs, because the Fidesz faction issued this statement that the Fidesz MEPs voted in favour of the budget laws, the budgets that continuously reduced the Hungarian Defence Fund budget. [[10.30]] Let's see the numbers. It is clear that the reason why the government wants to suspend all restrictions and rights in relation to the performance of service is because the Hungarian Defence Office is simply in a huge shortage of personnel, and the fact is that, yes, the security policy environment is changing, the soldiers need to carry out more and more tasks. Over-service is still possible, and if we consider that this government's intention to amend is likely to be due to the fact that there is no longer enough over-service, I would like to tell you that these people are already working at 120 percent, taking full account of the over-service. If this bill goes through this form in front of the House, it could be 180 percent and 200 percent. So I think that, yes, we are talking about people who should be thanked for their work. The Hungarian Defence Office is only able to perform its tasks and is still operational because these people are extremely dedicated and there are still so many of them, but they are not machines. I'd like to draw attention, we're talking about people, not machines. What do the numbers look like? The number is 29,700, even according to the Honvéd Chief of Staff, there is a 5500 shortage. But let's look at the stats. If we add up all the stock categories, we are talking about a deficit of 2300 people, and of this we are talking about a total shortage of 1,200 members among the crew, the contract staff and the officers. So we can only talk about a 1000-person shortage in the crew. But it's not just the shortage of numbers that is causing a huge problem. We have also seen in the 2014 accounts that the percentage of the depreciation of technical assets is close to 30 percent. So the tools of the Hungarian Defence Service are very old. It is a matter of fact that in the last five years the fighting helicopter capacity has ceased, the transport helicopter capacity has drifted to the brink of extinction, and the rigid wing capacity has also been lost. Now there's been a renovation of an AN26, but there's still plenty of work to be done. And I'm not even talking about the individual equipment of soldiers anymore, because it's very difficult to find words about how tragic this is. So these are the successes that the Fidesz fraction must feel to have achieved. So when we talk about protection, they use the word "defense" and use the word "security" in such a way that what the government has done in the field of defence over the last five years is a security risk in itself, because we are talking about means... Obviously, training the staff, recruiting are all things that can happen in a shorter period of time, within a few months. That is why I believe that the government has an urgent task in this, and we have a proposal for a decision on this, and I will of course speak more about it in my next speech. However, it is not necessary to figure out that there is a need for defence capabilities when the task is there and something needs to be solved. Because I think we agree that neither helicopters nor other technical equipment nor individual equipment can just be pulled out of nowhere in one moment. It does take responsibility. This would be the basis of an appropriate security policy, defence policy, not what they are doing. It's a security risk. You need to change that very urgently. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2015-11-19-36	Thank you very much. Congressman István Hollik, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-11-19-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, allow me, on behalf of myself and the Christian Democratic People's Party, to express my appreciation for the work of the Hungarian Defence Forces and all the Hungarian soldiers, which have been carried out so far at the borders of Hungary and at the same time at the borders of the European Union. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] However, what they have done so far, despite appearances, is not over. That is why we Christian Democrats welcome this bill, which, in turn, makes the organisation of work, i.e. military service more flexible with a view to a longer-term arrangement. The purpose of this bill is to ensure that the Hungarian Defence Office is able to carry out its activities with a more flexible organisation of work in situations that do not require any special legal order, let's just say that they are not ordinary situations, whether it is a disaster or a crisis related to migration, for example. On the basis of the legislative amendments, the military leader may, in justified cases, claim the work of both the military and the military staff for a longer period of time, i.e. - and I think this is an important guarantee element that may reassure our socialist fellow Members - rules for the performance of the service are laid down by the superior responsible for the organisation of the service, in particular with regard to the security of the service and the requirements of necessity and proportionality. Unfortunately, the proposal is now required by lifelikeness. Think about what would have happened in Eger if he had told Gergely Bornemissza to István Dobó that the eight hours of that day had expired and he had not been on vacation that year, so despite the Turkish siege he planned a long weekend with his family and took leave. [[Márta Demeter: That is very cynical and impertinent, Congressman.]] That is why we support the guarantee elements [[Márta Demeter: That's it!]] , on the basis of which public servants are governed by the joint agreement and that the military magistrate should be responsible for the safe provision of service and for the requirements of necessity and proportionality. The amendment to the Armed Security Guard is also eligible for us, as it is also intended for more efficient operation. In view of the objectives set out in the bill, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the proposal. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to also turn to the motion in a positive way. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-19-38	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to the next lead speaker, Mr Gergely Kulcsár, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-19-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Jobbik supported the government's efforts to stop illegal immigration, the establishment of a border lock and the deployment of defences at the borders, underlining political battles. But in our view, this proposal is not just about that; some parts of it are unsuitable to us. The bill amends the Public Employee Act, the Law on Armed Security Guard and Field Guard and the Law on the Status of Homelanders. The amendments include amendments to the regulation and the related security regulations dealing with the crisis caused by mass immigration. I would like to respond to three paragraphs concerning this amendment. It's just about working time. In the last few days, I have spoken to retired and still serving soldiers, military leaders. With regard to working time, which does not concern the public servant, but the service soldier himself, it has been interpreted that it is only possible to establish working time in principle, a concrete definition of work such as defence is unrealistic. Overwork must be compensated by the commander with a possible working time reduction, so this system would work well. Article 2 The point of the amendment contained in Section 2 is that it will also be possible to protect companies subject to the ownership rights of the Minister for Defence and the facilities of the CNBSZ with an armed security guard. In this regard, and in relation to the protection of military objects with armed security guards, Jobbik has already made its point several times. We told you this system wasn't right. In our opinion, these objects should be protected by soldiers. Of course, you can say that there is no capacity for this. We could also do an autopsy on who's responsible for this, who's responsible. In our opinion, the governments of the last 25 years. I agree with the solo before me on a few things, the MSZP congresswoman has whipped the government's defence policy. [[10.40]] It should also be added that the MSZP governments have also taken a lion's share in the reduction of defence over the past decades, which is part of the truth. How can resources be provided to protect these objects with a capacity of soldiers? Yes, the budget rate should reach 2 percent of GDP, this is a NATO expectation, there is no reality today. Jobbik has raised and constantly emphasized the need to set up border guards, so that the defence itself would be free of burden. It is necessary to set up a border guard, which has also been proven by the events of the past period. I'll ask the Secretary of State if they're not thinking about setting up an independent border guard later. The introduction of voluntary military service has also been a good proposal in recent times. This would not mean - before my words are twisted - that Jobbik demands or recommends the return of the army. This would be a voluntary military service, involving young people in military, military, military service, who are attracted to military careers, thus providing benefits to people who undertake such activities, could increase the number of defences. Turning to the point that I think is most relevant and our proposed amendment calls for the abolition of this point, and this is the 6th amendment. §. According to the proposal, the Hungarian Defence Office for personnel involved in managing the crisis caused by immigration and in carrying out its contribution to disaster protection, in order to make the personal framework for the exceptional and specific provision of tasks more flexible, the proposal's justification for the application of the provisions relating to the management of the crisis in another place, the performance of the service period and the related salary elements may be suspended. The applicable arrangements for the organisation of work shall be laid down by the superior responsible for the organisation of the service in the light of the interests of the service, in particular the interests of the safe provision of the service and the requirements of necessity and proportionality in respect of restrictions on rights. What does that mean in real life? The fact that those who have previously been led to the border and served there - and we have already said to them a million times that they have a very big credit for it - are always underlining in the pro-government ranks that the servants there deserve recognition and thank them for their work, and we agree on that - that they will be the ones who are wrong on this proposal and that we cannot support this proposal. So far, they haven't had a proper change, they haven't been paid overtime, and they'd practically legitimize that. In these cases, we recommend the application of the rules of management, which are included in the rules in force, so they may be entitled to reimbursement, various benefits, payment of absentee fees and so on. We call on the Government to remove this paragraph from the proposal, because this proposal is against border soldiers and not only to thank them for their work in words, but also in actions, and not to make such proposals. I would not refer to other paragraphs, exchanges of texts and expirys, or similar ones. However, as I have just mentioned, we would like to delete this paragraph from the proposal with an amendment proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-19-40	Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP is not present, so we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame.
u2015-11-19-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In addition to this Defense Salad Act, the first sentence can be nothing but appreciation, thanks, recognition for all the soldiers and all the civil servants who do their job. But that's not what the draft law is about. It's not about appreciation, it's not about recognition, it's not about thanks. No, it's about something completely different, something amazing. It is an amazing thing, because, apparently, in these five years, it is possible to see a continuous shortage of personnel in terms of the military, and these existing deficits in numbers you wish to trigger with an extreme burden within the framework of a bill, with a type of load that is not unacceptable, simply nonsense, simply does not exist, there is no such thing as to be put forward here in this bill. You know, there are general laws concerning the world of work; the Bible in quotes is the code of work in the world of work. They also carried out nasty acts in 2011, these actions have been confirmed by the interest representatives of the trade unions many times since then, even by the lackey trade unions that supported you at the time, and now they are raising their concerns, their objections and demanding - they who agreed with you at that time, a few years ago - that changes should be made. There's a civil servant law, and there's a law involving the status of soldiers. These are all to be taken into account and governed when dealing with this issue. Basics for which, as an example of working time, weekly working time may not be more than 48 hours, of course it may be different if both parties make their declarations in writing or if the employee party makes a written declaration that their joint agreement can derogate from this, then it is all right. But such a basic category is that 250 hours of extraordinary working time per year is what can be. It is also possible to deviate - again I have to say - if there is a counter-proposal by the worker, an agreement. And there is the collective agreement, and it is about the fact that there can be a maximum of 300 hours of extraordinary working hours, and of course there can be a derogation from that, again on the same terms. But what you come up with in this bill is almost unacceptable for those affected to hijack and approve, so to speak, those who bring the full vulnerability to them. This bill is about inexhaustible hijackings. In the case of civil servants, he says: 832 - 832 - hours, i.e. 104 working days, may be requested for extraordinary work, and the employee may be obliged to do so on the basis of a countersignation of the agreement. Do you know what 104 working days are? It's 52 weekends a year, which means 52 times Saturday and Sunday, the interesting thing is 104 working days. What about Sunday? - I ask my fellow Christians with great respect. 104 working days is extraordinary, and even cynically, consent is required. Yeah, if he doesn't agree, then we know the sequel is pretty much what it means to change employment contracts in the last few weeks, say, within the framework of the MÁV, if anyone wants to look at it at all, what it means to change compared to the previous one, then they tell him not to worry too much. [[10.50]] If you think it may not be good to look at it, and it may not be right and correct, then you tell him to go to court, if he does, then we know that we know the consequences of where people are going. So I think that this bill of insolence, which is before us, is a full use of the people and even their consent. In the meantime, there is little mention of compensation. As regards the compensation rules, I do not see that there would be a significant positive return, profit for the civil servants or soldiers concerned. As regards the Defence Status Act, it was already mentioned in the keynote speech by Mrs Márta Demeter, who raised concerns about the issue of the suspension of the provisions, to which my fellow Member, Mr István Hollik, also related, raised concerns about the suspension. No matter where we start, with regard to the rules of conduct, the arrangements for the performance of the service, the inter-work holiday, the rest of the day, the public holiday or much more, the issue of over-service, or even the emergency service, I think, my fellow Member Hollik, that when you say that you are in charge of the service, the organizer of the service is the guarantee that... and I think that it is not; it is always the current law that is the guarantee, which will be formulated within the framework of the law, because the organizer of the service, with his subjectivity, is also able to bring to life situations that, if the law allows everything to be done, there will be distorted situations. To tell you the truth, I don't have the confidence to give you a full degree of freedom in this sense, to give anyone the right to suspend anything, to do anything differently. I think we need the regulatory framework, the from-to-go. It has to be clear and clear that someone who's in charge can go from meth to where. Look, this bill is about the death of soldiers and civil servants in this case, about what is abnormal, because if someone has to work every working day of the week in their process, they are completely eviscerated, how and how can one expect a man who cannot regenerate, how and how can he expect a man to make wise decisions, to perform faultless work, and even to cause accidents or harm to the physical integrity of others? I think you should consider these, too. They're referring to flexibility. They refer to flexibility as an example for civil servants, for whom, as I said, they provide for the possibility of extraordinary work of 832 hours, namely 104 working days. How flexible is that? It is just not flexibility, just an extension with a content for which the worker has no room for manoeuvre. They ignore their fundamental rights, they trample on their fundamental rights to these people. The laws on extraordinary work and over-service are essentially, I can say with a calm spirit, wanting to suspend the government. It's unacceptable, it can't be done. What I was saying earlier is that the extraordinary work involving 104 working days for civil servants, the ability to order overtime, is basically a judgment to work every day. This is what is cynically expected to be recorded against civil servants who want to keep their jobs. Once again, we do not need such extreme, unacceptable, freaky solutions to resolve the shortage of numbers. And one more thing must be mentioned in any case, just because, as Congresswoman Márta Demeter has already mentioned, you are always well aware of things in terms of truth and trust. When they talk about Fidesz publications and much more about how the proportion of resources spent on protection in Hungary to GDP after 2010 compared to our material gains, it can be seen that this has suffered a decrease of about 30 percent. Then it can be seen that, while there is a 30 percent reduction in resources for protection, Fidesz stands up and says that there has been an increase in resources for protection. What if the Fidesz had said it was going down? Then I don't even know if there was a financial resource that would have been used in defense at all. So, the truth is based on the fact that, in any draft law, an opposition representative can believe what my fellow Member, István Hollik, said as an example, that trust is important in this matter. Well, trust is important, you know, if you find yourself day after day to day to reveal things contrary to facts that are factually tangible, then how and how can you talk about trust in any way? And in terms of final thoughts, going back to the beginning: I think, once again, if there are shortages in numbers, it should not be triggered by this type of - as I said - extreme loads, because this results in error, bad decisions, or a multitude of bodily injuries and much more. Law changes must be made - whether in the Bible, the Labour Code, the Public Employee Status Act, or the Law on the Status of Homelanders - that can then be followed by decent expectations of the man who does the work. On the other hand, the man who does the work can honor the things formulated by law. Because both parties, the tax of work and the entrepreneur of work, can do their work with a calmer spirit. And you know, if something is really crucified, if something is put in a position within the world of work - whether it is expressed as a public servant's question of defence - which brings workers to the brink of insufferableness, the system will sooner or later be overturned. And I think that no one, here in the House of Parliament, would support me or support me to upset the system. No! I am always trying to protect ourselves from creating laws that do not randomly bring Hungary to a situation where unnecessary, unnecessary or rightful strikes are taking place so that the peace of work is overturned. No! Maintaining and maintaining work peace is a very important category. Therefore, with all due respect, I would ask you to consider not to use the title of flexibility in a bill where there is an overwork in the content. Think, consider, and I ask you to amend your bill in this regard. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-42	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt. [[11.00]]
u2015-11-19-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I have not prepared such a large speech as the Gúr Nándor before me, but I would like to add a few points to the proposal, since I would like to make it clear that we are not against the conduct of the defence and its border. That's what we voted for. We voted in Parliament to allow the police and I to carry out the task of border protection. Although my fellow Member, Mr Kulcsár, was absolutely right to point out that without an independent border guard, we are quite defenceless in a situation where the Schengen borders need to be protected. It must be protected by law, even if liberal media across Europe and Hungary encourages not only Hungary but also other governments to commit an infringement, do not defend the borders. After all, we have also repeatedly said that those who fail to comply with Hungarian and EU legislation, in this case the protection of the Schengen border, are committing an infringement. When journalists and liberal politicians call for a country to do so, they are calling for compliance with the law and, in fact, for a rule-breaking state to be considered normal. I wouldn't go into this in more detail, we've all been through the events of the past period. So we're happy that the defense will protect the border, along with the police, but the establishment of the border guard is more relevant than ever. It's still not too late. I hope that, say, by next spring, the government will consider this strategy. I have also said in the Parliament that it is no accident who, appearing in the media and in terms of border protection, is one of Viktor Orbán's chief advisors, György Bakondi, was a border guard while there was still a border guard. It doesn't matter if the man who's organizing the defense is not from the defense, it's not from the police's framework, it's from his original profession as a border guard. Yes! One very important aspect is that, from now on, those who are being sent there to protect the borders, they are all Hungary, the Hungarian nation, and I will even go on, because many countries in Europe have been unable to do so, and they will also protect Europe. So their responsibility is enormous, the work is huge, which is on their shoulders, so we believe that the Hungarian government must provide the right conditions. Not only by amending the legislation, we allow them to be obligated to work virtually unlimited, but by providing them with work, we give them the opportunity to work properly by providing the right material, absentee fees and conditions, and by providing them with living conditions, and by providing them with money and, where appropriate, rest facilities. It appeared in the media that the CTU had access to the maybe 4-5 star hotel - repair - and for the average law enforcement it was probably just apartments. Of course, this was justified by the fact that, perhaps, Sándor Pintér was asked about this issue by opposition representatives that there was no room. They shouldn't be like this because it disrupts the solidarity of the system, and we don't think that an anti-terrorist is ahead of us than he was at the border. Let's try to be a little democratic about this, too, with law enforcement. But back to the proposal, we are therefore concerned that, although it is possible to derogate from the rules on working time, with the agreement of the parties. And there's a way to make a difference where we don't see the guarantee that it's going to be properly reimbursed. As I said, there must be money for this. I don't list areas, but believe me, I could, uh, I could, uh, I could, uh... I could, uh... I could get these people to pay off, or, uh, we could, in some way, send extra people to the border. A country of ten million should not achieve this by eviscerating the people, civil servants and soldiers sent there. Unfortunately, the joint agreement is also an interesting legal category, because I do not think that there will be too many of the overworked civil servants who do not sign it. Obviously, everyone is concerned about his work, and the joint agreement will only mean a nominal agreement in this case, as in many cases, not only in the public sector, but also in the private sector. That is why we criticized the Labour Code, because there are many provisions under which it does not provide adequate protection in a cognizant manner, and if we leave it to the parties, say, a large company and a small worker, then, indeed, we are talking about an agreement in vain, it will not really be. The same is true of the relationship between the state and the civil servants. By the way, it seems that the deficit or the lack of money in the 3rd grade. It also supports what concerns armed security, because although we are talking about an armed security guard created by the Minister of Defense, Minister of Defence, it would be best if the military guards were to carry out security duties in the defence facilities. It may be a financial consideration that in this case, albeit in a regulated way, so it is not given to outside firms, but cheaper - I think that may be the goal - it is cheaper to carry out these guarding tasks. There may also be an economic reason for this, but I think it is not the most cost-intensive thing in the field of defence. That proves either there's no money or there's not enough soldiers. This should be changed at first, too, and I think it would be worth the financial effort. I also have to say, and I would like to underline what my fellow Member here, Mr Kulcsár, said, that for such situations, for such tasks, which are the result of an extraordinary situation, volunteering could perhaps also be a solution, in which I would like to underline that youth could be involved, not in a mandatory way, but in a socially preferred way, in various defence trainings, or in a basic training. To do so, society can then provide all sorts of incentives, which I think many people would do on the basis of feedback. If there were an extraordinary situation like what is now, then there would be a base that could possibly be mobilised or also involved with some kind of incentive; for many, national commitment would also be an incentive. Believe me, in this case, money does not always dominate, as a professional soldier is obviously good to pay, but in a reserve system organized by a voluntary army, there would be a lot of people who would, as a result of a reimbursement, go to the border and help with these tasks. In this case, professional soldiers should not take overtime as much as they did. Of course, my fellow Member Hollik is right on the one hand with the Eger example, but on the other hand he is a bit deceiving, because things were a little different in the Middle Ages. Today, when we're talking about a ten million-dollar country, at least if there's a problem and we're sending these people out, let's add the other foot financially. Unfortunately, this proposal, and this is our main criticism of the opposition, is taking it away from civil servants and soldiers. I mean, you're okay with sending them there, it's okay that if there's a problem, you have to work overtime, it's okay to be there 24 hours, but let's put the other half there. It might be a much better taste for mouths if they got money, steeds, guns, or even extra freedom. I understand the government's intention, but the implementation here is too much, if I may put it this way, low-costra succeeded. Hungary is not so bad as to have to use these solutions. So I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State to think about it. If this has a cost requirement, then believe me, if it is presented to Parliament, even by amending the budget law, we will find those points in other areas from which we can take money. Because I think this is beyond discussion that the Hungarian soldiers' position on the southern border is indeed an end-of-life struggle, and that must be contributed to it by everyone's taxes, i.e., as far as the budget is concerned, and with even a modification, but this must be ensured. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[11.10]]
u2015-11-19-44	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2015-11-19-45	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The kind of cynical behaviour that Congressman Hollik has said, and what has emerged from his words, unfortunately, characterizes the government, their defence policy is absolute, and it is also an absolute reflection of the activities of the past years, i find it extremely cynical and outrageous. What we are talking about is not more flexible work organisation and task organisation, but, in particular, eviscerating the stock. There are already about 120 percent of the military population, which would increase to up to 200 percent, so this is what the proposal is about. I would just like to say that the huge shortage of numbers that I have given concrete figures to you in my previous speech cannot be replaced by the fact that they expect this level of overwork, this level of over-service and demand from the stock that is currently the stock of the Hungarian Defence Forces. I would like to point out here that not only this type of overload does not replace the shortage of numbers, but it is also not the task of the voluntary reserve system to replace the shortage of numbers. The fact that the voluntary reserve system as a capacity to operate in an uploaded army is, by the way, a goal to be fully supported. It is clear that there is absolutely no agreement in this regard in recent years, so the voluntary reserve system itself is not about replacing a shortage of staff. What will be our proposal for a resolution, I would like to ask you to support this House, I would like to ask you to support all the parties and all the groups, because we really think it is a national matter of defence, and it is obvious that the Hungarian Defence Office is now unable to provide a large number of forces for a longer period of time without compromising the basic task. Therefore, it is now imperative that this huge shortage of staff is drastically reduced, and that is why our proposal for a decision contains the way in which this shortage of staff can be filled. It is indeed the government's duty to allocate sufficient resources to fill the workforce, as the Hungarian Defence Office will not be able to carry out its task in the short term in addition to the current shortage. And by ordering the commander in charge of the service to replace the legal provisions relating to the service, which are otherwise regulated by a two-thirds law, this is quite amazing - we are talking about legal provisions that cannot be suspended even during the war, and they will now simply be replaced by the orders of the superior magistrate. So I hope you feel the problem with this idea. So this bill, as it is, is unacceptable, and it must in any case be sought to fill the shortage of staff. As long as there is such a huge shortage of personnel in the Hungarian Defence Forces, as long as the resources which are intended for the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces are so limited, as long as the Hungarian Defence Forces are in such a huge shortage of resources, there is no basis, moral or other, for the government and the Fidesz faction to talk about protection or security, because one of the pillars of Hungary's security is the Hungarian Defence Office, and immediate reforms are needed, an immediate force reform is needed in order to ensure the security of Hungary. Before the Secretary of State, I think, in his reply to the budget, he will point out that the budgetary increase in 2016 is visible, I would like to point out that the salary development, which accounts for about 90 percent of this increase, of course we have fully supported it, is natural that the salary base that has been frozen and that the net wages of the Hungarian Defence Forces have been reduced - if we put it this way, because the salary base has been stagnated and frozen - then, of course, that was the minimum that the government would take the step to increase salaries. I would like to point out here, in addition to the fact that this was a necessary step, and that was the minimum that it did so, in order for the defence to be able to carry out its tasks, it is not only necessary to do so, but it is necessary to have the right tools and the right resources to operate. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State, if you would argue with this, to explain how you will be able to ensure in the future - in addition to uploading the number of people, in addition to finally carrying out the procurement of assets and the modernisations that are essential, I am thinking here, among other things, of the modernisation of individual equipment, of helicopter procurement - what additional resources will be provided for the day-to-day operation and provision of tasks of the Hungarian Defence Office. So I think that, as long as the government comes up with such proposals, it is itself causing a security risk to Hungary. Thank you. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2015-11-19-46	I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha.
u2015-11-19-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am glad that Congresswoman Márta Demeter tried to figure out what the State Secretary's answer would be, but I would rather say that I felt a little strange here listening to opposition speeches, and I feel that then I realized what was the reason for this weirdness. The reason why honourable opposition representatives have tried this bill sitting on another chair, approaching this amendment proposal, sitting on the position of the warrior advocate and trade union trust, has been that way in which they approached our amendment proposal. The Congresswoman said that we are eviscerating the stock and that they have tried to cast and find parts of this amending proposal which all prove in their reading that we are eviscerating the military and that every word of this amendment is aimed at making the stock, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, at making the lives, work and working conditions of civil servants working in the Ministry of Defence worse. Many things have been misinterpreted, misunderstood, overworked, overserved, overserved, otherwise not included in the material because it exists and has not been modified. So, of course, if you're going to overwork, you're going to get an over-service allowance. So they sat in the wrong chair and approached it from this direction, while the real advocacy and the real trade union welcomed this amendment and guaranteed their support. The MP should sit on another chair, sit in the seat of the MP, approach from that chair, and read this amendment proposal from that chair, because the MP should see and perceive how much the world has changed in the last few months. In an interview in July-August, I was asked whether what is happening around us now could lead to a war, and in a few months we got to the point that on Friday, France, Paris, had been brutally attacked. In the meantime, if we open our eyes a little wider, we see that if we talk about war, think conventionally and approach the question or concept in a conventional manner, then we are wrong, because today, in addition to the hybrid war, the asymmetric war, there may be a third, newer, newer form of warfare that has affected Europe. [[11.20]] So I suggest to the opposition representatives not to approach this issue conventionally, not in the shackles of conventions and old-type thinking, as Members of Parliament, because as Members of Parliament, they must think that, yes, when the nation, the country, is in trouble, Hungary must be protected, and that is a huge task for the Hungarian Defence Office. We have amended these laws because the situation has changed, the world has changed, and in this changed world a new type of attack, in the event of a new type of challenge, must react differently, and this amendment, in addition to the amendment of the law adopted by a two-thirds majority, helps those commanders who lead the herd even now at the southern border to make responsible decisions. I always thought it was very odd to put a soldier in the same position and not give him the rank. If we trust someone to be able to do that job, then we also have the rank, and if we trust someone to do that job and put it in this position, we give them the right rank, then this commander will be able to decide then, on the spot, what kind of over-service, what kind of service is needed to perform the task. So I propose to my fellow opposition Members that they sit back in their own seats and approach this bill from here, and when it comes to it, please accept it by all of them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-19-48	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Next up is the 1994 XLV on war care. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. By János Lázár, L. Simon László and representative Zoltán Kovács T/7391. The submission submitted by the European Parliament is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2015-11-19-49	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would first like to thank the honourable Members for their approach to the law on war care in the summer of this year, on 4 July, as Parliament voted in favour of it by 176 votes in favour. All Zsuzsa Szelényi voted against and Szabolcs Szabó abstained during the adoption of the law. The purpose of this amendment was to give respect to the people who served in the ranks of the Hungarian Royal Defence and the Gendarmerie during the Second World War, between November 2 and May 45, 1938, and, unfortunately, after their death, the war widows or Hungarian citizens who obtained the right to war orphans did not receive or withdraw these benefits. Most of these were done for political reasons, since they said that those who had fought against the friendly Soviet Union, their descendants or their spouses, were not entitled to continue these benefits granted at that time, from 45 years ago. The Act on Compensation of 92 and the Law on War Care of 94 have been further developed, restoring the conditions prior to 49. It was also symbolic this year, since the law was born on the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, and we believe that this was a worthy way to commemorate those who sacrificed their lives for their country. Those whose father or spouse had passed away and who, apart from having to bear this difficult fate, could not even receive the satisfaction that those who fought and died could receive their rightful benefit. After all, it may also be said that those who fought for their country did not always choose their own choice, but that they were enlisted and defended their country as such. Before the date of 4 April 45, which was then the day of the completion of the Second World War, according to the Socialist position in Hungary, he ruled out widows and orphaned children who lost their lives before 15 October 1944. It was gradually dismantled for political propaganda purposes, and it was also said that the war widows and the war orphans could not submit the applications; so one part was carefully dismantled, and the other part was told that it could not be submitted. In fact, here I would like to thank the National Federation of War Widows, War orphans and Warcareers, who took this matter up and approached us, Members of Parliament, on several occasions, that the organization that had been fully available to war widows and war orphans until 1950 was wound up after 50 as a civil society organisation, and also the war care institution, which had an obligation to handle these people with a difficult fate, the care they had laid down for them, and was obliged to perform these tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, The point of the law amendment is that a process started on July 4th. These applications could be submitted to the district offices. In the past, according to data from the archives and the Ministry of Defence, there were about 20 thousand people who would apply to the district offices. These records were not complete, unfortunately. Today we can say that there were about 45,000 applicants. Due to that equal treatment, Hungarian citizens across the border could submit applications, and on this basis some 35 thousand applications have now been assessed positively, so they have received the benefits since August, September and October. Dear Parliament, I can give you the exact numbers. 600 people were the foreign Hungarian claimant, and 32 000 were receiving orphans' benefits, and the rest as paramedics and war-careers' family members. Unfortunately, as the age progressed, 56 people were able to benefit from military chemical care, and life was so cruel that, after the application was submitted, some 50 people unfortunately died within the 30-day deadline. A lump sum allowance has been fixed for 1100 persons. The point of the amendment is that we want to clarify the previous law and the summer amendment so that the original legislative intention is preserved and not damaged. These clarifications are as follows. It is not the lodging,.L., of 1 January that the loss of war and the damage to the death of military origin is the basis for entitlement, but the amendment will create a new, fairer system. This means that it is based on loss before 1 January and not on submission. This may also include those who may not have submitted the application. [[11.30]] Another practical problem was that, in the course of the examination of the applications, the injured father became a war invalid, and children born after 1 January 1949 could not enter the system, since these children were conceived before 1949, they could only be born in January-February-March 1949 and thus fell out of the system. We are now bringing them into this circle of support as a result of equal treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, An important issue and the original legislative intention are reflected in the proposal to support those who have suffered losses in the interests of the Hungarian State through war care. On the basis of the practical indications of the past period, we are making a new focus on the provision of war care only to those who have suffered losses in the interests of the Hungarian State, i.e. if the act of combat and, as a result, the injury or death of military origin It will take place on the territory of Hungary and with the participation of Hungary as a military party, then compensation can be granted. The intention of the legislator is to clarify the legislation, but it does not deviate from the text in force. The law on war care now covers Hungarians across the border, but does not cover a double Hungarian citizen who died because of an event or loss in Hungary or not in Hungary's interests. On the basis of practical experience, it will also be clarified that the scope of the rights of the soldiers of war is defined in order to ensure consistency with the legislation at the time of the right to continue the age and subsequent studies. Under the rules in force, a former war orphan whose care has ceased because, let's say, he studies or, as a woman, has married, could not receive military care under the provisions in force, even though the legislation of the day, in 1933, is still the case. Article 6 §2 of the Act also provided for the possibility. The rules of procedure are aligned with those of applicants from abroad in matters of competence, and the remedies are clearly clarified. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Based on practical experience, the submitted bill aims to ensure that children of orphaned relatives and soldiers who have remained widowed on account of losses suffered in World War II on the basis of the principle of equal treatment can receive a fair allowance, for which the rules of the administrative procedure will also be adapted and clarified in order to ensure that applications are dealt with effectively and quickly. I would ask the fellow Members, with these clarification proposals, to grant the possibility of equal treatment in respect of all war orphans or widows with difficulty, in the same way as in the vote on 4 July, where Parliament supported them with a vote in favour of more than 170, there was only 1 sex and 1 abstention. Maybe it was just a pressed button; if it was conscious, I would be very sad. I therefore believe that the rehabilitation of these hard-working people will be done at least spiritually, that we will also give respect to their parents by adopting this proposal, and that the procedure will become faster and more effective. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-19-50	I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha on behalf of the government.
u2015-11-19-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As they say, cowardly people have no country. Every nation has a duty to protect itself, the individuals that make up the nation, the citizens of the state. And the nation's duty is also to provide for those who suffer loss, suffering in their service to the community. And they also say that we've got the meanest kind of communists. Thus, after 1949, it was necessary to wait until 1994 for the law of that time to be released from war care, from whom this rightless right was taken, to be returned to the state. And this law was amended this year when the National Assembly extended war care to Hungarian citizens living across the border, on the one hand, and on the other hand provided an allowance for the benefit of former war orphans and war orphans who submitted their applications before 1949. On behalf of the Hungarian Government, we welcome this amendment, because it is fair, it will further broaden the scope of the rightholder, and it will clarify the procedural order with its clarification proposals, and I believe that, together with all of this, it will achieve the objective which was the intention of the authors. I therefore support the bill on behalf of the Hungarian Government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-19-52	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Imre Vas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-19-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, In the summer of the year, the bill aimed at extending the range of those entitled to war care was an initiative by which the Parliament expressed its respect and sympathy for those whose relatives died, were detained or taken to forced labour for the country and the people who lived here during the Second World War. On 4 July this year, the Parliament amended the XLV of 1994 on warcare workers. to settle the fate of war orphans, war widows, war-care families and war-sponsors who had been registered as eligible for warcare before January 1949, but who, for reasons of age or political reasons, had either suspended or terminated their money supply or refused their claim for such care for political reasons, and who could not submit their application for such treatment for political reasons. The amendment also extended the scope of the law to Hungarian citizens residing in Hungary who are not resident abroad. Accordingly, the current proposal contains a text-pointing and interpretation provision in order to support those who have suffered losses in the interests of the Hungarian State with the provision of war care. Thus, the intention of the legislator does not deviate from the text in force in the past, since it now covers Hungarians beyond the border. However, the legislator did not aim to take a double and a Hungarian citizen into war care, which was not due to an event of Hungarian or Hungarian interest or loss. Another reason for the amendment is the clarification of the designation of the determining authority, given that all claimants should be provided with a two-tier redress system. The procedural rule is clarified by the proposal because, in the case of applicants of Hungarian nationality across that border, it assigns the authority of second-degree war care to the Minister responsible for defence. Our action supports the presentation of the Members of Parliament. I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-19-54	I now give the floor to Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-11-19-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Members who spoke before me have already explained in very detail the purpose of this amendment to the bill. Of course, we are also talking about an important issue for the MSZP, and for this reason, of course, we also supported the June amendment, and we will also support the current amendment. In short, I would like to summarise that the main purpose of the amendment of the law on war care tabled in June is that, taking into account the historically changing borders of Hungary, the death of a hero after their late husband, who entered from Hungary, is also surrounded by war widows who are citizens of another state without a change of residence. [[11.40]] This bill produced the former orphan's allowance, as well as the former war-care family member's and former war - supporter's allowance. All orphans, war-loving and war-care families receive an allowance, whose money supply has been terminated or suspended for political reasons, or their applications for such care have been rejected for political reasons, and who has not submitted their application for political reasons. The territorial scope, like the widows of war, was expanded by the amendment of the law. The monthly amount of these benefits is equal to the amount of the allowance due to the war orphan, the widow, i.e. 30% of the minimum amount of the old-age pension, which is currently HUF 8550. We therefore supported this proposal, and it actually seems that with a positive intention, the authors are now seeking to ensure that the original legislative intention is in line with this proposal. A few of these items specify the legal definition of air raids and operations and the explosion of residual explosives, so that these events fall within the scope of the law if they have occurred in Hungary's territory or with the participation of Hungary as a military party. In the case of former orphans and ex-military family members, the entitlement will be based, unlike the June amendment, not on the registration before 1 January 1949, but on the loss before that date. According to one paragraph, the unwarranted allowance will have to be repaid. The top level of this will be the maximum amount of three months' benefits, this maximum amount of repayment will be cancelled. So basically, these provisions, I think, are eligible, and it is entirely justified to state clearly that the provision of care to war care provides support to people who have suffered losses in the interests of the Hungarian State. Due to the extension of the personal limit of the law to foreign Hungarians, the current conceptual system can also open up a wide range of interpretations, so this clarification element of the proposal is justified in any way, and it can also be agreed that eligibility is based on loss and not on registration of the rightholder before 1949. It is obvious that, in this case, the assessment of eligibility will be fundamentally more burdensome for the determining military care authority, but I believe that this will be fundamentally feasible. I would therefore like to sum up that the MSZP, as it did in this summer's proposal to the House, supported with its vote, and, of course, we will also support the amendments that make this workable to this end. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-56	I give the floor to István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-11-19-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As you well know, and as the rapporteur pointed out, this topic was mentioned once this year, and the Parliament rightly stressed the importance of this topic. CIV 2015 With the adoption of law, the old issue was resolved, and this resolved the fate of the war orphans, war widows, war-care families, and the war-savers, who, for political reasons, had not received any assistance from the country. It is a special pleasure for us that the decision at that time also paid attention to the help of our countrymen living across the border, who, for the above reasons, fell from state aid. However, despite this extension's intention to help those suffering losses for Hungary or Hungary, it is necessary to clarify the text. It is perfectly understandable that we want to give national support to those defending the nation and, unfortunately, in many cases, to victims, so that this issue should be properly regulated for the original purpose. Another absence of this June's amendment was that, according to its text, only those who had already received benefits at the time considered, i.e. before 1949, could receive support. For this reason, there are many whose families suffered losses before 49 due to national military duties, but thanks to the procedures at that time, only after the date set by the National Assembly did they receive the support of war orphans, war-careers or war-sponsors, so the Hungarian state could not support them, as stated this year. It is therefore important that we look at the event, not the status, but the event, as the Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács mentioned, and this can be properly corrected by the bill that has just been tabled. On the other hand, our fellow Members have made a perfectly logical and fair amendment, which the Christian Democratic People's Party can support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-58	I give the floor to Gergely Kulcsár, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-19-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As has already been said, the Parliament amended the law on war care in the summer, so that the state could also provide such care to those who had previously been suspended or terminated in the old system for political reasons, and who, for this reason, had either refused his application or did not submit it because of his fear of it. The territorial scope has also been extended to the pre-war territory of Hungary, to all areas that were part of the country at any moment. Of course, Jobbik supported the proposal with its votes in the summer. We told you then that the bill was a substitute. Now I don't want to waste time repeating my thoughts on the subject at the time, but I would like to get to what has happened since then, and to draw attention to a few shortcomings. After four months, this law had to be amended, as the explanatory statement says, and I quote: the legislator had no intention of bringing a dual Hungarian citizen into war care due to an event or loss of Hungarian or non-Hungarian interest. This is why we need this amendment, which we also support. At the time, about a month ago or even less, there was news that 42,000 applications had been received under the new law, according to the law adopted in the summer. The question arises as to how many of the 42,000 applications were - I do not know whether the Member or the Secretary of State can answer that - which concerns this, so they did not apply for an event or loss of Hungarian or non-Hungarian interest, so how much was this part of the 42 thousand applications. It should also be said that it is also a positive point of the proposal that the facilitation that, according to the proposal, any loss before 1 January 1949 and not registration should be the basis for the war care of former war orphans, former war-careers, family members and ex-arms. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to something that we have already said in the summer debate. This is that it was also a loss of time when their relatives disappeared in war, and the issue of missing persons was not settled with this bill. This problem has already been raised by my fellow Member György Szilágyi in the Legislative Committee. This matter has not yet been dealt with and this proposal does not resolve it. In the past, Róbert Répássy reacted by declaring them dead, but in our opinion it was not expected that this would happen in the case of a war trauma at that time, and this issue should also be dealt with in some way, and I would expect the Ministry's position on this matter as well. I would like to tell you what we said in the summer debate, too, that the amount of the allowance for war-care workers is 30 percent of the minimum amount of old-age pension at any time, which is not a very large amount. We also tabled an amendment to this in the summer, that we would like to increase this to 50 percent. We believe that the budget can endure this, it is not an amount that can't be paid and a little increase in these people's benefits and salaries. [[11.50]] Overall, we will, of course, support the proposal, and the Jobbik fraction will vote in favour of the proposal, and we look forward to the answers to the questions raised. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-19-60	Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP is not available, so we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. Firstly, there is an opportunity for an independent Member to comment, but I do not see that there is any stimuli. We now have further speeches from our representatives. In this context, I give the floor first to Mrs Anita Heringes.
u2015-11-19-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear rapporteur, Positive intentions, as Márta Demeter said, will be supported. However, we would like to ask for a positive attitude, since we have just presented a resolution proposal that has been raised by a relative in one of my host hours. We would kindly ask that this positive intention also appear here and support the solution to this problem. I would like to state the reasons for our resolution proposal, and I would really ask the pro-government majority to support us in this. In its original legislative power, the Government granted financial compensation to persons who were taken to forced labour in the Soviet Union after 1 October 1944 in the Government Decree on benefits for those who had suffered certain long-term deprivation of liberty. The Government's decree places the rights of data subjects subject to a limitation of one year or more. In the case of a surviving spouse, entitlement shall not be based on a period of one year. In order for the surviving spouse to receive compensation, it is necessary that the duration of the limitation of the deceased's right holder reaches three years. This distinction is no longer fair with regard to spouses who are entitled to compensation, especially when compensation is only HUF 20,000 in the case of deprivation of liberty exceeding three years under the regulation. That is why we are asking both the Government and the pro-government majority to adopt our resolution and to appreciate our amendment. We would ask that there be no time limit. The spouse, surviving spouse, whose husband was dragged away for even one day and thus his freedom was taken away, should be entitled to this extra allowance. After all, this lady who came to my inn class told me that her father had been taken away. To this day, his mother says at 80 - year - olds that anyone who is in this situation for one day should be compensated. I think that this is a worthy amendment. That is why we would ask you to accept our proposal for a resolution and to present this, to give these people the honour. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-62	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2015-11-19-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, the proposal before us can be supported, but I would like to draw attention to what is still missing, which has been missing for a very long time in the 1994 law. Regardless of the fact that the proposal before us actually corrects a mistake that was left in the law in spite of good intentions, I am thinking of the most recent amendments, indeed the event and loss of Hungarian interest is an important aspect, since we live in a country that has lost territories in which Hungarian citizens now live as dual citizens, thank God. But it is obviously very difficult to isolate it where appropriate, and it is now being corrected that the previous regulation has not made a precise distinction in this regard, the loss of who has come into this life situation. Obviously, it cannot be the purpose of the legislator to extend this to all cases in the Carpathian Basin. Therefore, the correction can be supported. It can also be supported that it is based not on submission, but on loss. This is also an important correction proposal. That's okay. However, as I said, an old problem, and I was repeatedly approached as a Member of Parliament by those concerned with the fact that the Act of the Year included lump sums of payments for the missed benefits, and unfortunately, these amounts were not in a thank-you relationship with the missed benefits, nor did they distinguish between the exact amount of those who had lost their entitlement. It would have been important - and it is before me in 2012, and I also submitted a parliamentary resolution proposal on a fair compensation for the missed benefits of the wards - if this had been accepted by the Parliament, because in the 1994 Act, as I said, great injustices have been introduced and it would be good to correct this. Believe me, those who are affected by these injustices are still waiting for the Parliament and, at the moment, the Fidesz-KDNP majority and the Fidesz-KDNP government to take these steps. At the time, the Defence Committee had rejected the application, but there was Csaba Hende, then Minister of Defence, who said that the Hungarian State did not wish to open any more claims for compensation or damages, or the Hungarian Government had no intention of reopening these chapters. This was not true in the sense that it only seemed true to these people, because since then the Hungarian government has been constantly raising other types of benefits or benefits for other categories, but unfortunately, if what Csaba Hende said there is true, only the missed benefits of war orphans, war widows and war criminals to whom the Hungarian State does not wish to settle the outstanding benefits of the 1994 XLV. Unfortunately, by law or by law, they didn't pay as much as they would have. We can clearly see that we are talking about a reasonable amount of money here. Here, the amounts that were taken could have been calculated for pennies and raised to real value. In the past, the year 1933 on care for warcare workers was the year VII. This was defined by law. It can be calculated how much they lost or could not submit their claim for political reasons. Despite this, as I said, he defined a lump sum payment under the Act of the year, which had nothing to do with the real lost benefits. I would like to point out once again that it is not a question of insult fees to use today's vocabulary, it is not a matter of saying, in hindsight, how much damage has been suffered spiritually or what suffering is worth, and, in hindsight, adding any new claim to an event, but, in fact, of wanting to get back on a lost, forint-identifiable allowance under civil law, and not of setting a sum for it in a fictitious way, which has nothing to do with the damage it has suffered. By the way, the Act of the year made it impossible for these people to start a lawsuit and say that the Hungarian State owes them a certain amount. This was actually taken from them by this law, since it fixed this amount in a single amount. By the way, I agree with Mr State Secretary, and just when it came to this last time, I told him that we had the dirtiest kind of communists, because it was not typical in the neighbouring countries or in the Eastern bloc countries to take their benefits away from the people who, in the war, were, say, injured or orphans, war widows, just because they fought against the Soviet Union. Look at this: this regulation was not alive in the neighbouring countries; only in Hungary could it be done in a collective way. We believe that the Hungarian state is still under this obligation. That is why, in my 2012 proposal for a decision, I tabled the proposal, not by accident, but, given a task for the government, I presented a proposal for a decision, giving the government the opportunity to figure out the regulatory principles, or how exactly the law should be ensured, or from what amount or where it would like to be planned for the budget. [[12.00]] But the point is that it would be fair or fair to consider, on the one hand, the state of the year, 92, 1 January 1992, while on the other hand, if someone died as a war invalid after 1 January, and the Hungarian State owed him debt, because his benefits were taken away, then these should also be inherited. After all, if these were withdrawn from someone else, it was also withdrawn from their family, their children, because it made the whole family's lifestyle more difficult, and beyond the fact that they had legally thrown away the disabled, war orphans, war widows, who suffered the injury, in addition, from the point of view of contributions, even from the point of view of payments, this family had to be deprived of it. I think that if, let's say, someone's father was a war cripple with a awarded allowance, it was taken away from him, and his family, his children, grew up in deprivation, and the war invalid was worth 92, our fictitious man at the moment - but unfortunately this was true in many cases - so it was worth it, but he died, and therefore he was not paid his due or his dues could not be paid in the future, then indeed, his descendant must have received this, and the claim should also be granted to him in this part. Well, this proposal for a resolution, as I said, was rejected by the Defence Committee, but I am very confident that the change of minister may give us a new impetus in this, too, so I would ask Mr Secretary of State to keep the subject on the agenda, to keep it on the agenda to the government, because perhaps the moment when we have the capacity to welcome him may come. Obviously, it would have been difficult to expect Csaba Hende to do otherwise, because if I remember correctly, he was involved in the writing of the Act of the Year, which he may have said at the meeting of the Defence Committee, so it is obviously difficult to expect from a defense minister who was involved in this, and he was even proud to have given at least something to these people. Well, you should be proud not of giving these people a lump sum of alms or a small sum of money, but should be proud to settle the situation. In the direction of the governments and the Hungarian state, we believe that these demands still exist and that the settlement of these needs must be resolved. Nevertheless, as I said, we are in favour of the proposal, but we would very much like the question of warlocks, war widows and war orphans and the crimes committed in their direction in communism to never lapse, and at least financial payments to be made. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-19-64	I now give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács.
u2015-11-19-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The slick text of the law, which corresponds to the legislation and must comply with it, cannot give back the importance of what the 2015 CIV does. Law has been set up, and what this law is now clarifying. It cannot give back the importance of once facing what lives were that, after 1945 and especially 1949, they had to suffer injustices that they did not deserve, but, on the contrary, sacrifice for their country. He who did not live at that time and did not see the reality face to face, cannot imagine what the kind of injustice could mean, that he knew that his father, he knew that his relative was somewhere in pain, he suffered, he endured terrible torments in this war, and then he was a third-rate, if any, citizen of Hungary. Therefore, any gesture that happens in this direction is more than the few forints that we can give you. This gesture must not only be made towards them, but it must be emphasized over and over again that we do it and say it because we do not want to distinguish pain from pain, because we cannot allow those who have fought for their country to suffer, to be injured, to die, to allow the memory of those who have not attempted to be satisfied. The satisfaction must at least consist in admitting that those who have fought for their country have suffered for their country, they deserve all the recognition, material and other recognition that this country can offer at all. Dear House, I remember, a respectable family, who had lived on our street for so long, what a misery he was in just because he was subjected to completely unfair persecution after the war. We can no longer give satisfaction to this, but we must try to make gestures, to make gestures or more, to give recognition to their offspring, whether they are now entitled to some sort of compensation or not, we give recognition. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-19-66	I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman György Szilágyi has spoken. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-19-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would just like to draw attention to one thing about the amendment of the law. When we accepted this amendment of the law and opened the door to those war orphans or war widows or even a few of the relatives to report to the authorities, there was a slight disturbance. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have received several complaints that, for example, there have been districts where they have applied for administration of the amount and have received the answer that they are not entitled to it, because they have not been registered. To tell you specifically, we've had several complaints like this from District X when the administrators just didn't know what it was about. And the fact that people across the border are entitled to this is known to very, very few. So I would just like to ask you that, since there was the intention of the legislator and the intention of the legislator was clear, this could have caused a lot of maladministration at the government offices or at the bodies who did not know about it, so in the future, if possible, it would be much clearer and more appropriate if everyone was informed in time that the apparatus could prepare itself, because such a law adopted with good intentions could have negative effects if the administrator was not aware of the law or the law and what the legislator wanted to achieve. I just wanted to draw attention to this, and, if possible, in some way, to those administrators who will carry out the practical process of the case and the practical process of the proceedings in much more detail. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-19-68	I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács if he wishes to reflect as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yeah, he's signaling. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-19-69	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the supporting contributions concerning the bill that I tabled by János Lázár, L. Simon László and László L. I felt that Parliament appreciated the intention that we turned to the people of a difficult fate this summer, just as we did now with these clarification proposals. In the context of the bill, there were also speeches which were not fully integrated or aligned with the bill. In this connection, I would like to say to my fellow Members that, according to my knowledge, compensation is being made in some form, the government is thinking about this issue, precisely so that any opportunity that has arisen here can be closed in some form in connection with the wounds caused by history. [[12.10]] The other thing I would like to say is that, in addition to the moral satisfaction, this has a financial impact, since we have counted 18 to 20 thousand people, and today it exceeds 45 thousand in the submission of applications, so there has been a double number, which is also very joyful. This shows that everyone has been called upon to use this legislation for those who could not have done it before or from whom they had previously withdrawn. In this respect, I would not think that government officials had become unprepared, since it was a separate education, given that, after the date of entry into force, the requests had to be accepted, so from 4 July it was a very, very short time to prepare from submission to adoption and, moreover, from acceptance to entry into force. It was also quick to enter into force because unfortunately, these people are elderly, who must be over 73 years old and very few rejections will take place. The administrators interpreted the legislation widely, and accepted the person who confirmed it with two witnesses - it didn't need paper - that the father died in World War II, or that I had a receiving-day client who said that he was a dear congressman, look, my father is written there on the memorial or plaque, engraved in marble as a soldier hero who died in World War II, but I don't have any papers. I was able to tell him that if this is clear to the village community, then it must also be clear to the authorities. And it also shows that there are 35 thousand evaluated applications, and that the allowance that is due each month will in fact amount to the amount of the 13th month pension that has been taken, and for the widows it is more than 30 thousand forints. Of course, we all know that this can't heal wounds, that money can't bring back dead lives, that money can't compensate for the difficult fate that these people have been through, but we still think that there is a way forward in this. Obviously, the country's financial wealth can increase or increase these benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not add to the word, as I feel a broad support between the walls of this House. Thank you again. In this way, I thank you very much for the government's support that the Ministry of Defence has provided, and I trust that you will vote on this bill in a short time, the text of this amendment, when the final vote is taken, in accordance with the intentions of those tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-70	Dear Parliament, Proposals for amendments may be submitted by 16 a.m. Next up is the 1993 XXIII on the National Cultural Fund. Act and CXL of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/7403. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. Peter Hoppál, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-11-19-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The current legislative package also clarifies three important issues. On the one hand, the Act traditionally called the Cultural Law provides technical types of clarification and, on the other hand, in accordance with the government's cultural policy, the National Cultural Fund ensures the presence of the Hungarian Academy of Arts to the extent necessary and, on the third, takes a deregulation-related measure in relation to an earlier film convention. Before I present the bill before Parliament in detail, allow me to briefly explain to you which laws are also affected by our package of amendments. The bill is set out in Annex XXIII of 1993 on the National Cultural Fund. Act No.2 of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. The aim is to amend the Act and deregulation of Decree-Law No 33 of 1970 between the Government of the People's Republic of Hungary and the Government of the French Republic on the publication of the Convention on the Joint Production and Exchange of Films, signed in Paris on 17 February 1970. Taking these issues into account, I would like to present to you in more detail the provisions of the proposal - first with regard to the amendment of the Act on the National Cultural Fund. The National Assembly is CIX of 2011 on the Hungarian Academy of Arts. By law, he established the Hungarian Academy of Arts as a public body; with this great step, the Hungarians fulfilled their commitment two centuries ago. After the Hungarian Parliament included in the Fundamental Law the freedom to create art, it also provided the framework for the exercise of this freedom. The period since the birth of the law has shown that MMA has undertaken the task entrusted to it. With its activities as a public service, it effectively brings together the outstanding representatives of Hungarian art life. Today, the Academy of Arts plays a decisive role in performing national tasks related to art, especially literature, music, training, industry and design, as well as architecture, photography, film, performing and folk art. With its activities, it already promotes the achievement, preservation of the values of Hungarian and universal culture, and the creation of new, valuable works. Thanks to its dynamic work, its headquarters, the well-established building of Pesti Vigadó has become one of the centers of Hungarian art life. At the same time, it has been pointed out that the integration role of the Hungarian Academy of Arts in cultural life can only be completed through closer cooperation with the National Cultural Fund as a separate state fund. The questions of the present and future of art have today become factors affecting the quality of life of society. Their response is urgent because of their high social importance, and it requires us to take a major step beyond the existing framework to encourage and present the creation of new works, to strengthen the Community conditions for high-quality artistic creative work, and to give a greater role to the public body representing the entire artistic life. The proposed amendments to the NKA Act provide the opportunity for cultural actors to jointly decide on the allocation of resources for the survival and development of Hungarian culture. We stress that our decision is a way to ensure that, through the integrative power of culture, through joint action, the often latent efforts to preserve, perpetuate, present and develop the nation's artistic traditions can appear more effectively and more forcefully than at present, and that the issues that are pressing the timely problems of culture can be more concentrated and more pronounced than today. Freedom and openness of cultural life are fundamental values for the Academy, so it is clear that it will cooperate with other organisations involved in the cultural creative work. Concerns that have often emerged in the media have proved to be unfounded. Instead of expansion, strategic cooperation, instead of cultural struggle, are smart and forward-looking compromises - these are the goals of the regulated cooperation set out in the bill, which will be established in the future between the National Cultural Fund and the Academy of Arts. I am convinced that these proposed changes will also strengthen the activities of the NKA, and that its work will be evaluated. [[12.20]] If the proposal is implemented, the MMA, as a public body, is substantially linked to the work carried out in the National Cultural Fund, thereby providing valuable support for the performance of public tasks. The main objective of the proposed provisions is to ensure balanced conditions for effective cooperation between the public body and the National Cultural Fund. To this end, the proposed amendments to the NCA Act are structured around the following regulatory objects. 1. The Vice-President of the Fund is proposed to be appointed by the Minister for a maximum of four years by seeking the opinion of the President of the MMA. There is no change in duration compared to the text in force. Members of the Commission shall be invited by the Minister. In addition to the Minister, the NKA Commission's annual work plan must be approved by the President of the MMA, so that the common will of the Minister and the President of the MMA will prevail in personal decisions and in the setting of priorities for support. 2. The Minister shall seek the opinion of the President of the MMA prior to the establishment of permanent professional colleges in the Ministerial Decree on the establishment of a permanent professional college structure. Thus, there is a chance to develop a college structure that reflects the interests of all disciplines, which prevents the fragmentation of resources as well as duplication of funding. 3. The draft sets different emphasis on artistic and non-art-like areas in the co-thinking of the two organisations. This distinction arising from the tasks of the public body is reflected in the proposal of the draft that, in the case of artistic professional colleges, the leaders are appointed by the Minister with the agreement of the President of the MMA, and in these colleges a third of the members are appointed on the basis of a proposal from the MMA. A further third of the members in the art colleges are appointed by the Minister in his/her own competence, and a third of the members are delegated by professional organisations. With this proportionate allocation, the draft provides a guarantee that diverging professional opinions within the colleges can come to light and that the proposal for support is made by conflicting them. 4. In the case of non-art permanent professional colleges, the Minister also intends to ensure the participation of the MMA, but at different rates. Half of the members shall be invited on their own initiative after hearing the opinions of the professional organisations concerned and the other half shall be delegated by the professional organisations concerned. 5. In addition to the proposals on the internal structure of professional colleges, the draft also takes a position on the issue of sources of support. The consideration of common thinking and efficient use of resources leads the author when he proposes a targeted allocation of existing financial opportunities rather than a parallel concentration of resources. The Commission shall decide, with the agreement of the Minister and the President of the MMA, on the allocation of the grants to be recovered and partially or in part non-refundable, the grant rates of the permanent professional colleges of art and non-arts, and the distribution of the aid between the permanent professional colleges of the main art theme. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the NCA Act is a decisive cultural strategy step. With the adoption of the proposed amendments, you can make a substantial contribution to fulfilling MMA's statutory powers, being closely linked to the work of the NKA, thus strengthening its position in cultural life. The 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. I would like to share the following with you as regards the amendment of the law. The amendment of the cultural law aims to reinforce the change of approach that has marked all our proposals since 2013. A new direction for the task of public collections has become increasingly important. Their focus is on the wider collection, preservation and social exploitation of cultural goods. The priority objective and public mission of libraries and museum institutions is to make the most of their contribution to improving quality of life and ensuring social well-being. The basis for the work and services of museum institutions and libraries is the collection, which can be increased and registered only under regulated conditions. In some areas, the existing rules of the Cultural Law are considered obsolete and outdated, partly incomplete, and should therefore be reviewed. With these aspects in mind, the bill aims to regulate the following areas: rules on the registration of library documents; rules on the supply of publications and electronic publications within the scope of publication; rules on the acquisition of collections by museum institutions; clarification of the rules governing the lending of cultural goods; and the possibility to collect and derogate from the collection area of museum institutions. In the first point, I would like to list the amendments on the subject of the library. The tasks related to the registration of library documents have so far not been covered by the cultural law, but the basic legal institutions need to be regulated by law. The bill sets out the library registration obligation of the documents obtained, the priority of the electronic register and the content that can be regulated in the ministerial decrees. The basic rules of the obligation to archive will be laid down as a new element in the cultural law, and the proposal also sets out the main issues that can be addressed in the institutional assembly regulations. The proposal expands the scope of the concepts defined in Annex 1 to the Cultural Act with the concept of "the publication." The concept of "press product" is the 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. law, the media law changed it, instead of the concept of the media product, it adopted and applied the concept of a wider circle, also defined in the media law, as well as the regulation of the cultural law, but the reference to the media law has so far been absent from the law. The bill states that the person entitled to the copy may obtain the publication or, for the purposes of the archive of a copy of the publication, the 1999 LXXVI on copyright. In accordance with the rules of law, you may make a copy if you have received a copy of the publication by means of the required copy service or by means of an incorrect number of copies. The costs incurred in relation to the replacement of the required copy may be charged to the debtor. This provision ensures that the fullest possible range of publications in Hungary, including electronic publications, is made available and maintained for the future. The amendments on the subject of the museum are as follows in the law. Collection area, collection activity. Networking is one of the basic principles of museum work, two of which are key regulators of collection circles and collection areas. The activities of the museum institutions, including their activities in the production of collections, shall be limited to the collection area fixed in their operating licence under the rules in force. This will allow a clear scope of competence to be defined and effective work to be done. Collection excavation work may in some cases, such as archaeological exploration and field collection, be concentrated only on the collection area, thus ensuring coordinated operation and avoiding duplication of tasks. Due to the transparency of archaeological exploration rights, the collection area is of particular importance in this area. However, in some cases - such as purchase, purchase, gifting, inheritance or exchange - the acquisition is not limited to the collection area, so the amendment proposal also allows the acquisition outside the collection area. This is justified by the fact that these means of acquisition are not fixed. In these cases, when it comes to collection material that fits the profile of the museum, the material can be increased from any part of the country, museums can act as competitors of each other, for example in the case of works of art appearing at an auction. In the case of county-wide urban museums and regional museums, the proposal sets out further different rules for the collection of natural sciences, as well as for the museum certified as a minority centre for the collection of ethnographic, historical and fine arts. [[12.30]] To ensure the possibility of a derogation from the main rule, to provide an additional collection area is necessary due to the methodology for collecting natural sciences, such as comparative studies, examination of the fauna of remote geographical areas, and the complex collection of ethnic ethnographic culture and historical and artistic monuments, such as Romanians, Slovakia and the national collection of the South Slavic culture. The 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. The amendments to the legislation relating to the former provisions of the Act will take place in the first half of 2016. In view of this, the differentiated entry into force of the bill was established on 30 September 2016. Digitalisation strategy. In addition to the museum mission statement, the cultural law also requires museums to prepare a digitisation strategy, which contributes to the development of the objectives and methodology of digitisation activities, and to the development of the digitization work of the institutions. In connection with the deregulation of Decree-Law No 33 of 1970 between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the French Republic, signed on the 17th day of February 1970, concerning the publication of the Convention on the Joint Production of Films and the Exchange of Films, I share the following information with you. In the draft standard text, the national propose that the Convention be repealed. The regulation under the Convention concluded in 1970 is obsolete and the two parties therefore considered it necessary to establish a new framework. This is also justified by the fact that the Commission's decision provides better opportunities for co-productions than before, which could encourage new investments by partners. As a result, the government authorised the Minister of Human Resources to establish the text of the film co-production agreement between the Hungarian and French parties. This happened on 6 July 2015, and I respectfully report to the Parliament. By deregulation of the 1970 Convention, the constitutional requirement laid down in Article Q (2) of the Fundamental Law, which provides for consistency between international law and internal law, can also be ensured. The government has taken important steps to promote cooperation between the two parties. On the one hand, the authorisation to finalise the text of the film co-production agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the French Republic 1288/2015. In the decision of the Government, the Government agreed with the presented text of the film co-production agreement concluded between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the French Republic, authorised the Minister of Human Resources to establish definitively the text of the Agreement, subject to its approval. On the other hand, in the Government Decision, the Government called on the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade to issue the instrument of authorisation necessary for the final determination of the text of the agreement, at the same time adopted the draft Government Decree on the publication of the agreement and ordered its publication in the Hungarian Gazette after the text of the agreement was finally established. Following the final conclusion of the text of the Agreement, the deregulation of the 1970 Convention should be ensured, subject to Article 12 of the Agreement, at the same time as the recognition of the mandatory scope of the Agreement. This is what the author is proposing. The draft Government Decree, which provides for the publication of the agreement, stands before the publication in the Hungarian Gazette. Our government also strives to complete the regime change in the field of culture, honourable Members. To this end, we have taken significant steps on a number of important issues in recent years, such as a greater role for local authorities in maintaining public collections. The then medium and strong concerns, the dire predictions of the media debates, did not come true. Today we can say that the new system is working well. Now, with another change of system, we will give the self-governing public body of artists a greater role, and I am sure that the future will also justify us in this decision. In addition to the large strategic steps, we are constantly modernising our regulatory system by means of small interventions, which are important for the efficient functioning of our institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I respectfully ask you to discuss and support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-19-72	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-19-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group supports the objectives and the proposals for solutions set out in the present proposal for a law on cultural life that has been presented and discussed. The first major chapter is the related amendment to the National Cultural Fund Act. In 2011 the Hungarian Academy of Arts was established as a public body in the Act on the Hungarian Academy of Arts, which is responsible for the protection and enhancement of cultural values, the preservation of artistic and historical traditions. The MMA brings together the outstanding representatives of Hungarian art life with a public mission, and its regular members are artists with outstanding intellectual or creative performance in Hungarian art life. The MMA performs national public tasks related to art, in particular literature, music, training, industrial and design art, architecture, photography, film, performing, folk art, as well as the analysis, support, education, domestic and international presentation, public domain and representation of Hungarian artists. The MMA facilitates the achievement of the values of Hungarian and universal culture, their preservation and the creation of new and valuable works. In view of its place in cultural life, the MMA should work more closely with the National Cultural Fund as a separate public fund in the future. Therefore, take part in the future decision-making of the National Cultural Fund, in the professional college work and in the decision-making process in the field of arts, in the bodies deciding on the allocation of the funds of the National Cultural Fund by tender. CHAPTER XXIII of 1993 on the National Cultural Fund The amendment of the law is a declaration to strengthen the cultural strategic role of the MMA in artistic life. This objective is supported by the Fidesz Group, honourable Members. The MMA public body is ready to play a meaningful role in the work carried out in the National Cultural Fund, thus also taking part and responsibility in the performance of public tasks. The provisions of the draft aim to ensure the necessary conditions for effective cooperation between the public body and the National Cultural Fund. The proposed amendments to the NCA Act will help to achieve this objective from one to the other. That is why our group also supports the amendments to this effect. The amendments to the cultural law concern libraries and museums. They are the other major part of this bill. Let's look at the library changes first. [[12.40]] The amendment of the cultural law to the libraries requires the legal basis for two important topics, since the current regulation on both issues is now obsolete in several respects. One theme concerns the provision and exploitation of copies of publications, the other concerns the establishment of a basic regulation on library documents. Currently, the printers are required to provide six copies of the publications produced to the National Széchényi Library, the national library provides for the archiving of a copy, and the other copies are forwarded to the holders designated in the government decree. The legislation currently provides for an obligation for electronic publications, but does not cover the regulation of performance. This missing area, this issue, will be resolved and replaced by a government decree, which will be drawn up under the current legislative amendment. The following amendments are included in the law on the subject of the provision of copies of publications. The draft takes over and complements the concept of a publication in the Media Act, which includes electronic publications. The currently in force 60/1998 on the provision and exploitation of copies of press products. a new regulation is required instead of a government decree, because the concept of "press product" does not contain the book under the media law and therefore the concept of "published paper" should be used. In addition, it is because no rules have been laid down for the performance of copies of electronic publications. The draft also explicitly states that a copy of the electronic version of the printed publication with the same content as the publication must be provided. The draft delegates the rules on the way in which copies of electronic publications are to be delivered to a government regulation. At present, there is also a lack of definition of the legal consequences applicable to non-compliance or non-compliance with the obligation. Previously, it was an infringement that was removed from this circle in the context of the comprehensive new regulation of non-compliances. The Secretary of State has presented the detailed rules on compulsory specimens which are already included in this bill. In point 9 of the draft, the following legal consequences are specified in the proposal:. The person entitled to the copy may obtain the publication or make a copy of the publication for the purposes of archiving in accordance with the rules of the Copyright Act. The defendant shall be entitled to charge the costs incurred in connection with the replacement of the required copy to the debtor. The National Széchényi Library has not done so far. According to the experience of the national library, it will be able to effectively encourage publishers to provide the required copies, with the need to reimburse the costs indicated, without any additional sanctions. The draft, this amendment of the law, did not account for any budgetary impact, because the budgetary resources required by the government to present the long-term strategy of the National Széchényi Library, the resulting tasks and the measures necessary to accommodate it in the new building include the necessary costs to receive and archive copies of electronic publications. Another major theme of the recent legislative package is the new chapter on library documents in the cultural law. The tasks related to the registration of library documents have so far not been covered by the cultural law, but the basic legal institutions related to the object need to be regulated by law. The draft law sets out the library registration obligation of the documents obtained, the priority of the electronic register, the basic rules on the obligation to archive, the main topics to be settled in the institutional assembly regulations, and the scope of content that can be regulated in the ministerial regulations. All these proposed amendments are intended to enhance the protection of library documents, the protection of our treasures and books and our documents. On this basis, this part, this chapter, is also supported by our group. The next major chapter of the bill that has just been tabled is the scope of the museum amendments. Pursuant to the current cultural law, the activities of the museum institutions, including the acquisition of collection activities, are limited to the collection areas covered by an operating licence. Some other forms of acquisition, such as purchase, gifting, inheritance, exchange, own production, have also been described in detail, Mr Secretary of State, so in order to ensure the effectiveness of collection growth and collection enrichment, it is necessary to provide, in some cases, a derogation from the collection area for the museum institutions. In addition, the draft also sets out different rules for the collection of natural sciences, the archaeological collection circle and the museum certified as the ethnic centre for the collection of ethnographic collections in the case of county-wide urban museums and regional museums. The possibility of derogation from the main rule defining the collection area becomes necessary due to the collection methodology of natural sciences and the complex collection of ethnic ethnographic culture. This is also proposed by the bill we are discussing. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, On the basis of the above, I would ask my fellow Members to express their views on the bill tabled. We, the Fidesz Group, support the proposed bill on the basis of the reasons set out above. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-74	I now give the floor to Vice-President István Hiller, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-11-19-75	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! In my view, this bill is an on-the-go report: the report of feudalism on how it occupies new and new areas of Hungarian culture. It's not about performance, it's about privilege. The Hungarian Academy of Arts does not and will not embrace the entire Hungarian culture. It doesn't integrate, and it won't. If there is an organization that shares Hungarian culture today, it is the Hungarian Academy of Arts. He doesn't try to pull it together at all, but he owns, keeps, and grinds. To his shame, he took the Kunsthalle, one of the churches of contemporary Hungarian culture. Since King Franz József gave this to the Hungarian culture, governments and systems have gone, but no single organization has ever vindicated itself the right to have it and to own it alone. Prerogative and not performance. I do not see in any way that the Hungarian Academy of Arts has any achievement, while many members of the Hungarian Academy of Arts have excellent performance. Some have excelled in their performance, some have participated in the work of their own territory, but this alone cannot be blamed. However, the organization itself is the most damaging institution of the Hungarian culture of the last one and a half century, which rejects performance and clings to privileges. [[12.50]] It is such a law, Mr. Secretary of State, as a medieval diploma, which refers to the fact that it is now necessary to occupy a new area because it has already occupied more than before, so it is a natural step to do the same again. There wasn't enough Pesti Vigadó! The Hild fork wasn't enough! There wasn't enough increased state support! Now he also threw himself on the National Cultural Fund, which, if anything, at least brought together Hungarian culture, and, with the help of the current Hungarian state and the current Hungarian government, was the most important state sponsor and sponsor of Hungarian art. It's like a bad play. Do you really think that one-third participation in the most important decisions, one-third participation in personal matters, is a minority? It's not a minority. It can clearly be assumed that the candidates appointed by the State, the Government, the Minister, will have the same opinion as the one-third delegated by the MMA, and that professional organisations which may delegate their members to their respective parts may play only the role of the participant. This basically goes against all the reasons why many, many of the creators of the National Cultural Fund, at the time, expressed this goal, and some of them, changing their concept, are now doing the dissecting, dissipating and disclaiming of the National Cultural Fund, with the fulfillment of the intention of the Hungarian Academy of Arts set out in this bill. I consider the Hungarian Academy of Arts to be a political organization based on an identity of opinion in the field of culture, and not a professional organization, which, in cooperation with other professional organisations, enriches Hungarian culture by arguing. All his activities are political, and I don't see professionalism in any of his activities. When the first researchers of an institution or research institute that has started its work are assigned the task of researching what they wish to research, and this is how it is formulated, it has nothing to do with research or culture, but also to clarify the achievement of a political goal. It's just a little expensive for the Hungarian taxpayers, uncontrollable, and in any case by sharing Hungarian culture. Compared to this, other areas of the bill, which the Secretary of State has rightly described, naturally stop in themselves, with deregulation or, for example, with the French-Hungarian film convention, I might even agree. But let us be honest that the significance of this law does not consist of these necessary matters of minor importance in the second, third part of the bill. This law was presented solely because of the feudal reservation of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, and if it is true that the law comes before Parliament, a few more cases have been handed over to the Hungarian Parliament. I cannot and will not see why any professional or at least self-respecting body wants to take care of the whole Hungarian culture - because such a task is not necessary. What is needed is that the Hungarian state has ideas about culture and knows what it has created by itself, and I already think it helps and protects with the involvement of the profession through the cultural basis created by the legislation. But to have a body take over the right to determine what is beautiful aesthetically, what is useful to the country and what is forwarding in culture, this thought, honourable Members and Members, has always been condemned to death in history. You can make a number of other laws here, so you can fund the political organisation based on your own views in the field of culture, and then you can come up with new demands if you look for a new palace somewhere in Budapest, and that doesn't mean that there's no justification for it. But let's turn this around a little bit. Let's see what Hungarian culture and its institutional system could look like if this way of thinking were to be decisive in the future. What if another political interest group, whether in the near future or in the further future, chooses the same criteria and says that he does not want the Kunsthalle, his own organization does not require the Kunsthalle, but because there are the opera lovers in the majority, the Hungarian State Opera House? And with another law, a future political trend tells me that I'm continuing this attitude that you've started in a shameful way, but you don't actually want one side of the Heroes' Square, but the Hungarian State Opera in the middle of Andrássy Road? Please tell me the difference between thinking and thinking. Nothing! And then there's a third one that says that they like classical painting and art, and if one of the political trends has taken over the Kunsthalle for their own organization, they'd go over to the other side of the square, and they'd want the Museum of Fine Arts. Another political trend and then he will think in the year of Eks that they should have the Palace of Arts, the newest institution, which honors the greatness of Hungarian culture. And then that organization will ask for the Palace of Arts. That's what they start. This was started when one of the most important shrines of national culture, the Kunsthalle, was given to an institution. They set an example for later ones to continue to do the same, not to integrate, not to unite, but to dismember. The worst example, which has been in the Hungarian culture of the last century, although its competitors undoubtedly have different periods. However, for some reason, it is necessary to consider that neither the pre-WWI nor the various systems between the two world wars nor the post-WWII have thought of disintegrating the universal institutional systems of Hungarian culture - and here this is happening and it is said to be integrated. Well, it doesn't integrate anything. He's gonna chop you up. Just as among the creators of Hungarian culture, not only would it promote cooperation, but also separate. Don't tell me that, by the way, only artists who are at the Hungarian Academy of Arts know excellence in culture! Well, how many great things do we know, who refuse and will not be willing to enter this political organisation in the field of culture! Don't tell me you're working together and you're integrating. It's just this organization that's broken and isolated. I do not think that if the Government has made this decision wrong and supports the lead speaker of the major party of the majority group, then the vote on this parliamentary decision will be amended by my speech. That's not why I told you. [[13.00]] If that's what I wanted, from experience, I don't even think that we should be involved in the debate. But it is necessary, at an early stage, in the national assembly of the country, to say in front of the public, even if it is limited, and in the record that all that is being done here with the National Cultural Fund is a cultural shame. A body, an organization, which is, by the way, the most diverse trends and those who do not belong to any political trend, we have brought, created, tried to protect it at all times to survive, and what we have received - rightly - from a parliamentary decision in 1993 and had its background. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I am willing to admit that the idea of the National Cultural Fund was not created in moments before the adoption of the law, but earlier. It's a great thing. Following governments - also the first government of Viktor Orbán between 98 and 2002 - tried to protect the National Cultural Fund in such a way that it could continue to be and remain an institution for culture and for all, the most important sponsoring and supporting activities of the state. That's the consensus you're breaking. This decision does not bring forward Hungarian culture. This decision gives another privilege - in a good feudal, medieval way, even recalling the mood of decisions before the reform country assemblies - another privilege to a political organization in culture. You will not be proud of this decision. I think maybe deep down, they already know. But I see even more serious damage not only to the Members of Parliament and the Parliament, but also to the entire Hungarian culture, not only that it is useless, but also particularly harmful and bad. Thank you very much. [[Szabolcs Szabó applauds.]]
u2015-11-19-76	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-19-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to summarise the views of the Christian Democratic People's Party on a law that, as we have heard clearly from the Secretary of State's introduction, covers three major topics: the amendment of the NKA and the cultural law, and an international agreement in a short paragraph. I would like to turn the matter around and start from behind, because obviously the most controversial and preliminary Polemic amendment is the amendment of the Act on the National Cultural Fund, which I would like to leave to the end. No political force contested the pass on the termination of the French-Hungarian co-production agreement. Of course, if I count it correctly, the time has passed over a convention 45 years ago, it is very timely to put an end to this. At the same time, I would like to ask the government to strengthen co-production activities that can greatly help to improve the quality of Hungarian film production, to bring into Hungarian films elements that, by, say, international standards are interesting, exciting, nifty, and that French film production is particularly suitable for this, because there have been and we hope that there will be several significant periods, creators and authors of French film production, which can have a fruitful effect on Hungarian film production, and, of course, vice versa: we also have an interest in creating works in this popular, but also artistic, genre, which also serve the international recognition of film production and films, while of course they also serve the pleasure of Hungarian viewers. So there's nothing wrong with that, it's okay. There is nothing wrong with the other amendment package, either, with the proposals for libraries and museums, which I refrain from presenting, since it has been clearly explained by the Secretary of State and the lead speaker of Fidesz. Of course, KDNP also supports these amendments, because what I think it is important to mention is the following: the concept of the library was exhausted a few decades ago in the collection of books and journals, so in collecting printed products, the time has passed, and it is time to regulate the supply and collection of electronic versions and copies according to today's needs. As regards the amendments to the museum, I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to two important points. It is good that the amendment concerns the regulation of scientific collections, and I would like to link this intention with the increased demand, interest and support for natural sciences, which is characterised by the policies of the third and second Orbán governments. It is particularly commendable and commendable that it also discusses the organizational, operational and registration issues of ethnic and ethnographic collections. That is why, of course, this part of the legislative amendment is also supported by the Christian Democratic People's Party. I suppose I will not surprise the Honourable Parliament if I introduce a discussion on the third major issue by supporting this, too, by the Christian Democratic People's Party, and because of the following. We see the role of the MMA, the Hungarian Academy of Arts in a very different way, as the Socialist Member István Hiller, who before me, said here, with his usual rhetorical turns, in a rather dehonesting, terrible and frightening way. I didn't record them all, because the record keeps them. The KDNP sees the question as follows. Culture and the promotion of arts have always required mechanization. Centuries ago, this was usually undertaken by the wealthy aristocrats, the clergy, the church, and a couple of wealthy mecenaries whose sensitivity to arts was well above average, and he could afford to sacrifice something of his wealth, so to speak, for the taking up of arts and artists. Today's Hungary, like many other countries, is not characterised by such rich patrons who could be entrusted with the support of various cultural products and artists. There are no more Esterházy princes - although thank God some of them are still alive - who can claim to support, say, the salary of a Haydn and his band to sponsor the performance and production of fine symphonies and plays. Therefore, the state took over the role of the mecenation in some form of coercion. The state is always a fiction, and it always expresses the will of those who, at least in a democratic society, make the majority of the decisions. The state is itself - after this is a fiction - of course, in order to carry out such a task, to bring together the support of arts, Hungarian and universal arts, and to become a mecenary, it can solve it if it has an established organization for this. [[13.10]] I see the Hungarian art fund for such an organization, which can perform this dual task, i.e. support, care, development, preservation, so it is not a double, but a multiple task. And there is nothing wrong with that, there is nothing wrong with this list of things that we have heard from István Hiller here, because this made the arts about equal to science by the law that was born in 2011, which provided for the Hungarian Academy of Arts. And it's not an argument that MMA doesn't integrate, because there are many artists, as we've heard, who refuse to enter. In my view, they are the ones who are talking about integration and disintegration. Why don't you step in? In the Hungarian Academy of Sciences there are such scientists, such as world-seeing, world-viewing and partying, and yet no one remembers the need for two Academy of Sciences. It is true that the Academy of Sciences is almost 200 years old, or at least more than 150 years old, is an institution of the Hungarian state, while the arts have not been such a collaborator. We should therefore welcome the fact that there is such a body that focuses attention on the highest culture, the highest art and the excellent internationally recognised people who practice this art. The previous solo acknowledged that yes, there are many people in the Academy of Arts whose artistic performance is measured not only by Hungarian standards but also by international standards. Therefore, the Academy of Arts is a good institution of the Hungarian state, but, as we are used to, there are always serious differences in the composition of a leader, a governing body, in Hungarian intellectual life. I don't know how long it's gonna last, it's an old story, we know that it's at least 50 years old or 100 years old or 150 years old, and if they criticize the personal composition, the persons of a decision-making body from whom these people are ideologically far away, it's not welcome, but it's understandable. Now, the Academy of Arts plays the role that the mechanists have played for centuries, and the cultural history and the ghost story also set an example that decision makers, who have decided on a work or artist to support, have been wrong many times and have made a good decision many times. We know many of these examples from painting, literature, Puccini's first great opera was not supported by an expert committee and raised a much less valuable piece instead. And who has done justice? There are always posterity and always audiences, because there are no objective criteria in art such as some of the sciences, only part of them, especially in the natural and technical sciences, can be quite objectively decided on a performance or in sport, but there is a lot of debate about humani lessons. And art, the aesthetic is a category that cannot be weighed by weight, it is necessary that the decision makers' own attitude and subjective opinion always play a role. Because, Honourable Parliament, let's not kid ourselves. This debate, which could already be followed in the press, and what has now come out of the Socialist comment - I take a very different view - is basically about who shares the money, and these are ideological dictatorship, expropriation, so much sound words, but it is that the National Cultural Fund, which has resources above it, can make a lot of decisions that it supports or does not support. I would like to add that it does not forbid, as we have seen in decades of communism, it does not forbid, but may not support; obviously, the works and authors that hold the opinion of the majority of the decision-makers. And indeed, if the wheel of the world changes - it will not, in my view, merely in theory - it may come to the fore, but it comes from the nature of things. In order for the MMA to fulfil this function, which the legislator intended for him four years ago, it is necessary to make this approach between NKA and MMA. And, of course, in the decision making process, there will be professionals there, the minister, be the candidate of any party in any government in 50 years' time, did not fall on his head to delegate, say, miners or blacksmiths to a body of arts, obviously basically experts in the form of arts. In the same way, the MMA, because one third to one third of the experts are admitted to the NKA Committee, obviously MMA is once again delegateing experts. And there are the professional bodies who also delegate. I had the opportunity not to get very close, but I did get involved in some of these review and decision-making matters, and I did experience that two artists sometimes express three opinions about the same work. Therefore, it is not worth being over-ideogised, there will be no consensus in this respect, and it should be noted that we have a law, we have an institution that slowly fits into the institutional system, which has been created for noble purposes, which is good for art, good for culture, and we must also note that for the sixth year we have lived in Hungary where there is a government committed to certain national Christian values. Obviously, it is quite obvious that it supports this line in the first place, but no one is expelled, no one is attacked, no one is banned from the country, there is no rule of the three Ts, as it once was. So these are natural things, let us not dramatize the situation and support this bill, which the Christian Democratic People's Party definitely considers to be worthy of support. Thank you very much, and I apologize, I got stuck this morning. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, will be here. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-19-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I agree with each point of the bill before us, we agree with it, we support it, and we will vote for it. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause in the ranks of Jobbik and the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-19-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Although the government has lost two thirds of its parliamentary majority, unfortunately, they already want to establish a two-thirds majority in the allocation of the resources of the National Cultural Fund. The most important point of the cultural salad law, submitted without prior consultation, states that one third of the members of the National Cultural Fund Committee are appointed by the Minister under his authority, one third by the Hungarian Academy of Arts, and another third by the decision-making body on the basis of a proposal from the relevant professional organisations. There was no reconciliation, there was no prior consultation, despite the protests made by the stakeholders in an open letter, the Fidesz-KDNP unfortunately forgot to represent it in the culture as well. What just happened? So far, ministers and professional organisations have been able to send members to the Commission, i.e. civilians have had a substantive say in making important decisions. This ends with a third minority of civilians, while the government and the MMA of the wagon camp make up the two-thirds majority. This is how two-thirds of the government's support should be developed, and this is a creative and clever government solution, and the relevant professional organisations may even be pleased that they will not be put out of the National Cultural Fund for good - but we will not be able to achieve this in the future. The decision is extremely harmful and contrary to the original objectives of the NKA, because the NKA was originally designed and created to protect the independence and independence of Hungarian culture. [[13.20]] This independence and autonomy are permanently lost by the two-thirds government and the MMA majority. Unfortunately, we know that war requires primarily money, then it needs secondary and tertiary. This is no different in the case of a cultural struggle forced by the government. The cultural elite of the government, the recapitalisation of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, is taking place. This process has been going on since the establishment of the MMA, so let's just think about becoming a public body, increasing budget support, buying a billion-dollar building, or now gaining access to the resources of the NKA. György Fekete's body gets fat like a little ball, eats everything up and swallows it all around. This path, which leads to the cultural policy exclusivity of the MMA, is clearly wrong in the LMP's view. We strongly condemn the fight against cultural chariots. It would be okay if the MMA were a truly independent body if it did not enjoy the government's strong support in a material sense; if it were one of the many players, if it had not taken the funds away from others. Everyone gets into whatever body they want, that's not the problem. The problem is the exclusivity, which causes serious damage to artistic life. Who gets billions more to run a year, buy a luxury chair? Or could it be that, despite the support of power, despite the one-sided abundance of material resources, the government side is not able to subdue everyone with the opportunities given by the law, they cannot buy everyone? Don't you realize that it's not even possible that this struggle is in vain? After all, the artistic and cultural life is renewed every day, this medium constantly creates new currents, trends and authors. Even if we can make someone impossible, tomorrow a new character will appear, or, according to the war logic, a new one to be defeated. You can continue this endlessly, but it's not worth it. Because besides the fact that this struggle cannot be won because of the characteristics of culture and artistic life, it is extremely damaging. It destroys human relationships, consumes creative energies, makes it impossible for intelligent aesthetic debates without anger and cart camp logic, based on this value judgement. It triggers fear and a bad mood, it poisons me. In recent years, the Constitutional Court has stated that the law declaring the Academy to be a public body is not in line with the requirements of neutrality and pluralism ensuring the freedom of artistic creation. This statement seems to be true not only for the establishment of the MMA but also for its later operation. The amendment to the law on the NKA now undermines precisely the freedom of creation, neutrality, and the requirement of pluralism. On the basis of the cultural salad law before us - and this seems to be becoming clearer - the establishment and functioning of the MMA is most likely to jeopardise the objectives which were set up by the 2011 CIX. the protection and enhancement of cultural values, the preservation of artistic and historical traditions, the strengthening of the Community conditions for high-quality artistic creative work, the protection of the freedom of creative work. The more power the MMA has, the stronger and bigger it becomes, the more financial resources it can disposal, the more it becomes a dominant player in government cultural policy, the more it would threaten everything it serves, it would have to protect, in a fight that could never be won, but it could continue to cause great damage and losses. How long is this worth? When do they realize that this country can benefit from a truly cultural policy if they allow cultural life to be diverse, subsidies are not exclusive if there is no one in a bled or oppressed situation. Culture is the fourth pillar of sustainability, but this pillar can only grow out of true freedom, real neutrality, real diversity. The operation of the NKA so far, the 50-50 per cent power ratio, at least this diversity, was preserved somewhat, and the 66-33 per cent dominant position is only destroying it. Even if the practice of allocating resources is not radically transformed, although there is no guarantee under the law, it is still wrong to say that this transformation is a harmful message. He says that the forces supported by power and power rule, they influence everything, they always have the last word. This attitude is completely alien to the cultural political concept represented by the LMP, which we believe in. We will not support this harmful law. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-19-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have the first independent representatives to speak. I give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó, please.
u2015-11-19-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As has been said, indeed, the amendment to the law before us would amend several laws. I would follow this in reverse order, as my fellow Member, Rózsa Hoffmann, because from my point of view, this particular French-Hungarian film convention, as well as the amendment concerning museums, public collections and libraries, cannot be discussed in particular. I don't think we have anything to object to. It is, in fact, a completely life-like package of amendments that concerns these laws. With regard to the NKA, the regulation of the operation of the NKA, its amendment, there are already much bigger problems there, so I would rather stay here more than the majority of my opposition colleagues did in the previous, almost an hour. In the introduction, it is worth making clear that at the time, the NKA was created to ensure its independence from the budget to support culture, which is why it became an independent basis so that the government party and opposition parties did not come to each other during the ongoing debate on the fiscal law, so as to see how much money they received in Hungarian culture. And by the way, it is very interesting that it was actually created by almost the same people who are now having this amendment implemented by the government. György Fekete himself is very proud that it is actually connected to him at some level that he was born at the time. And, of course, there's been all kinds of criticism over the past, let's just say it's been a long two decades with the NKA. In part, I have been constantly complained to myself over the past year, by the way, by the way, by the applicants who won, that funding is sometimes slow and difficult, and the rest, but these are technical details, these were not criticisms of the neutrality or bias of the aid. Of course, these can always be improved, and this was government-independent, I think, in many ways, that such criticisms have occurred. And of course, sometimes criticisms have been raised that have occurred in the area of grants at such times, let's say biased decisions, but at systemic level, I think there was no problem with the NKA. The way it worked, everyone acknowledged this, they knew about what rules can be applied for money, and up to the amount that was available, the participants of Hungarian culture received it. In next year's budget, that's about HUF 10 billion we're talking about. Perhaps that has not yet been said, 9 billion 750 million, if I remember correctly, although this is not an exact amount, because it depends on how much of the lotteries people buy, because that is where the fund itself is charged. There's gonna be a big change in that. I appreciate it, as István Hiller said, that today there is a broadly balanced decision-making position in the professional college, professional organisations give half of the members, and half of them are delegated by the minister. What's the change? Two thirds of it will be on that side, because one third of it is the MMA, one third the minister, one third the professional bodies. And that's what they feel, these professional organizations themselves. The letter which was also sent to Viktor Orbán was leaked: 18 professional organizations protested, and this is not about Balliberal organisations beating the table here again. The whole book business was totally protesting! Organisations covering writers and poets, which can be classified in a wide range of ideological directions or classified by others, have protested together, and I could still list this line of 18 organizations who have asked them not to do so, because it is not good. [[13.30]] And what is the main object of the protest? That everyone can see that the MMA is not an independent and impartial body. My fellow Member Ikotity also referred to this particular decision of the Constitutional Court. It was quite clear that the Constitutional Court said last summer, if I remember correctly, when this decision was made, that a public body from a friendly company, which cannot and will never guarantee artistic freedom, was made. And the reason you didn't make a decision is to plow it and sprinkle salt into the place of the whole thing, because you admit that the government has redeployed the legislation to such an extent that if it were taken out suddenly, there would be a void that would be unmanageable. But, basically, he didn't terminate the MMA or revoke the law that created this MMA, so it's very clear. And I do not agree with the Secretary of State that, over the last few years, the MMA has proved what an integrating organisation is like, but the problem is with them constantly. And that's largely because his leader is a confrontative personality who keeps saying that there's no way to get him to integrate, and the organization he's leading is to integrate. And I don't think it's fair that anyone who doesn't enter the MMA doesn't integrate. I'm a geographer. Once they figure out how to make friends with right-wing geographers, then a government would figure out how to turn them into public bodies, and they'd say they'd split the money there for geographical research, and I'd say, "Excuse me, I'm not going in, because it's none of my business, so there's no argument or answer that I'm not the one who's not integrating. Well, whoever created it is to blame. So that's a big difference, I think, in the approach. Of course, it's possible that 150 years from now, it's gonna go away slowly, because when there's a second generation change in artistic life, it can be smoothed out after a while. But on the one hand, I hope that we will not have to wait so long until this kind of problem is resolved, because I hope that we will be able to make a change of government sooner than that, and that Hungary will probably be completely different in 100 to 150 years from now. So to sum up, I can say that we, on the part of the Joint, see this as a clear political einstand. It's about the money. Rose Hoffmann said this quite clearly and clearly, it's about money, sometimes it gets, sometimes it gets. If the division is ideological, these people will get it right now. I would add, however, that I am very confident that if, for example, we, on the part of the Joint Committee, were to take a decision, it would not even occur to us to touch on the funding of culture at any level. I, for my part, will always and always say that professionals should decide on it and that it should be clearly neutral, party-neutral, independent, and that when we talk about arts, it should be done in accordance with the principle of freedom of art. Thank you for listening.
u2015-11-19-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority spokesperson invited by the committee representing nationalities. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translates it into Hungarian. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2015-11-19-85	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag vom Ausschuss der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlages Nr. T/7403 des Gesetzes Nr. 23, Jahr 1993 über den Nationalen Kulturfonds und des Gesetzes Nr. 140 uber die musealischen Instituten, Versorgung der öffentlichen Bibliotheken und über die öffentliche Bildung erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the National Cultural Fund (NEC) XXIII of 1993. Act and CXL of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and right to public education. T/7403 on the amendment of Law T/7403 Bill No.3 on the provisions concerning the rights of nationalities. The two points of substance of the bill that specifically affect nationalities in Hungary are as follows. 15. § 45/A. the following paragraph 1a is inserted: At the request of the Minister for Maintenance, the Minister may, in the framework of the procedure for issuing or amending the operating licence of the museum institutions, allow, where justified by the methodological characteristics of natural or on-the-spot collection, a collection area other than those referred to in paragraph 1 (a) a collection area of natural sciences or (b) a collection area of ethnography, history and fine arts in the case of a museum institution qualified as a minority fund. Article 16 is replaced by the following: § 46 of the Cultural Law. the following paragraph 2a is inserted: The Minister may, in the context of the procedure for issuing or amending a licence for the operation of a museum institution, authorise a collection area other than those referred to in paragraph 2 in the case of a) a collection circle of natural sciences or (b) a collection area of ethnography, history and fine arts in the case of a museum institution qualified as a minority fund. 15-16. The above amendments to the sections of the Articles are necessary because the current rules of the Cultural Law do not give rise to the definition of the collection area related to the collection of ethnography, history and fine arts in the case of a museum institution classified as a collection circle of natural sciences or as a national reference institution in accordance with real professional needs. In the case of county-wide urban museums and regional museums, the possibility of derogating from the main rule determining the collection area is necessary due to the methodology for collecting natural sciences, comparative studies and the complex collection of ethnic ethnographical culture and historical and artistic monuments. The criteria for the examination of the request for derogation and the annexes to be attached are laid down in the Regulation on the licence of the museum institutions. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary agrees with and supports the adoption of these specific legislative proposals. At the same time, looking ahead, we would like to give a detailed overview of the specific situation, opportunities, problems and results of the rural areas of the nationalities living in Hungary, through the situation of the German and Slovak nationalities with the most regional houses. Only multifunctional living landscape houses can help the development of village tourism, the representation of local or regional identity - more and more often in museum trade circles. In addition to exhibitions showing local housing culture, folk arts and cultural historical values, they should operate dance houses and other traditional events, organize artisan camps, local history competitions in their courtyards, and make it possible for local historical research. The National Local Government of the Germans of Hungary recognized this early, and, with the support of the German Municipality of Budaörs, the Bleyer Jakab Local History Collection has performed a national task in Budaörs since January 2008. He established the Professional Centre of the German Nationalities Landscapes in Hungary, whose main task is to bring together the work of these institutions, to encourage their activities and to increase their visibility. In Hungary, the territory of the former Schwäbische Türkei, Sváb Turkey, i.e. roughly Tolna and Baranya, boasts most German ethnic landscape houses, landscape rooms or simple exhibition places. [[13.40]] Of the nearly 140 institutions currently mapped, 38 are located in Baranya, unfortunately only 5 of them have operating permits. Eight out of 25 collections in Tolna County have permits. There are also 8 out of 22 collections in Pest county, or 10 out of the rest of the former Germans, and there are also exhibition halls in Bács-Kiskun, Fejér, Komárom, Esztergom and Veszprém counties and sporadically in some other counties. The quality of houses, exhibitions and collections is very mixed depending on the economic strength and the agile ethnicities and associations behind the exhibition places. Unfortunately, in many settlements, the landscape houses and exhibitors, which were sometimes furnished 30-40 years ago, have grown old, tired or deceased, and have not been able to pass the inheritance in the right hands everywhere. In the same situation as the German one, Slovakian landscape houses are also in Hungary. In Hungary, more than 60 Slovak ethnographic collections are currently held in the following counties: Bács-Kiskun, Békés, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Csongrád, Fejér, Heves, Komárom-Esztergom, Nógrád, Pest, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg and Veszprém counties. The number of collections is increasing year after year, with landscape houses, village and institutional collections, village museums, private collections. The National Slovak Municipality owns a single ethnographic exhibition hall in Sátoraljaújhely-Rudabányka. The ethnographic exhibition representing Zemplén Slovakia in the folk monument-style building has a visible guest room, community spaces, an outdoor stage, a barn. The Munkácsy Mihály Museum in Pécsaba is a national collection base museum of Romanians as well as Slovaks. The Association of Hungarian Landscape Houses, which was founded more than ten years ago, makes the total number of landscape houses and collections in the country between 350 and 400, but only a fraction of them are unfortunately licensed to operate. They have practically the same problems, regardless of nationality, region. The situation is better and they are lucky where the local government and/or ethnicity support them, recognizing not only the cultural and community-creating role, but also the tourist attraction in these houses and collections. There are many good examples and recent initiatives, such as Somberek, where a new landscape house was inaugurated five years ago, and where German speech is even heard on the street. In Fekeden, also in Baranya County, the old long farmhouses have been renovated, the village is already known as "Sváb Hollókő" in many places, and of course the landscape house has also been completed. We've heard a lot about Dunaharaszti, where after a year of existence, the title "The Landscape of the Year" was also won, but this is also the title of the recently inaugurated Nagymányok Landscape. In Vecség they spent their annual income on the creation of a landscape house, and they also had the momentum to join a modern, forward-looking program, the MuseumDigitar, which is an object digitalization system based on German software. This will make objects available to everyone on the Internet, and will also be inventory and data collections. So far, ten of our regional houses have joined the system supported by the German embassy in Budapest, and the prestigious Museum Europeana website also takes over the material. The ten settlements are: Bakonynána, Budakeszi, Dunaharaszti, Ceglédbercel, Császárölt, Himesháza, Kismaros, Somberek, Tarján, Újbarok, Vecses and as coordinator Budaörs, of course. The aim is to connect as many German landscapes as possible in Hungary, as this professional site also includes inventory, the creation of cardboard, and digital search and museum pedagogical possibilities. Our aim is also to extend the MuseumDigitar programme to other nationalities living in Hungary. Several of our German landscape houses - Újbarok, Zsámbék, Somberek, Császáröltő, Nagymányok, Szentlászló, Hercegkút, Kismaros - regularly join the programmes initiated by the Hungarian Association of Landscapes. For example, this day became the spring gate opening of the landscape houses in connection with the tradition of the animal launch on the 24th of April, St. George's Day. In association with another organization, the National Association of Rural Tourism, we advertise this program on common platforms, among other things, and they promote the landscape houses as a tourist destination. Our newly established German ethnic landscape houses in Pest county are in the newhartyani, the new village, the Biatorbágyi, Solymári and Soroksári; in Komárom-Esztergom county the Dunaszentmiklós; in Veszprém in Bakonyna; in Baranya in Sajkon and Palotabozhok, but in Udvar they also design a landscape house. These new landscapings are primarily due to positive attitudes, many volunteering, self-strengthening and skillful farming. We hope that by our coordinated, professional advisory work on Budaörs we will be able to support and strengthen these efforts. The lesson is given, because to operate, to start the institution, it takes money and it takes a lot of money. There are many conditions: inventory, regular inventory books, electronic records, permanent opening hours, competent staff, expert supervision - ethnographic, historian -, provision of research conditions, research services, management of visitors, statistics and of course expertise, culturally furnished exhibitions, related professional programmes and events. And here's where the circle closes. In the majority of cases, there is no money for a permanent ethnographic expert, there is no courage for the communities to accept the operating licence, since the only person who can apply for it is the one who can produce at least the part of itself. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The regulation on the operating license of OKM museums lacks a clause that would treat landscape houses as special, unique institutions, not museums under the same hat. The NGO, the Association of Hungarian Landscape Houses, has already initiated the correction of the regulations, but so far the legislators have not overruled this regulation and have not corrected it. Unfortunately, the operation of hundreds of landscapes is difficult, and modest collections cannot develop and develop. It could, at least in part, be a solution if several regional houses could be jointly supervised by a specialist, if other opening hours were applicable to the landscape houses, and if they could receive direct, regular support for the application of a specialist, not only occasionally if and if they were successful in applying well. Many landscape houses already with an operating permit lack applications for renovation, maintenance, and a short deadline between publication and delivery. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities has already initiated the establishment of a new investment and renovation tender framework for institutions in the maintenance of national minority self-governments, as early as the 2015 Central Budget Act. This can be a step forward in some of the landscape houses, but we will later launch a proposal on our own for a comprehensive overview of the situation and for a complex change. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2015-11-19-86	Thank you, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2015-11-19-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the keynote speech, Vice-President István Hiller, my fellow Member, pointed out that in relation to the types of issues that are deregulation and simplification issues, there is no particular contradiction in these matters, they can also be supported. But that's not the problem. That's not the problem. The problem is that if it had to be said in a sentence, I would say that you started dismembering the universal institutional system of Hungarian culture, doing this, this is what started. [[13.50]] And I could stop the story here, but I'm not, because I'd like to put a few signals in your direction. The way I see it - not necessarily as a professional, but in conversation with skilled people, in agreement - is that everything they have begun has started an imperceptible process. And I don't know if I'm even sure that God doesn't give me, that this process is not irreversible, that this process is not irreversible. Many people said that when we talked about the content of this bill, that it was considered shameful, that long-term consensus, agreements were considered to be disruptive, that they would damage everything they were doing, and that they would create systemic distortion. Therefore, the summation of the discussions and discussions was that if I spoke on this subject between Parliament's walls, we would speak, and I should definitely indicate that the rethinking of this bill should be done. Nor does it match our view of culture, what is in this bill. Now I say this sentence not by reference to our left-wing values and by relying on our left-wing values, but simply what I have said, the universality of culture and the dismemberment of this institutional system cannot, according to our judgement, fit into what and how this story should work. It's no different from the total occupation or attack of culture itself, no matter what words we use, but because the attack on Fidesz is based on a party, I can't let it go. The other thought, which I must say, was part of the negotiations, was that the Hungarian Academy of Arts has become, in recent times, practically an organization of right-wing artists, those who have taken on or take on a public role - which may not be so bad - but also political roles. However, I think there is a bigger problem here, because this is also causing some distortion, obviously, in terms of their personal bearing. When you think about what has happened over the past period, there are many cases where Fidesz has been assured of their political stand. I don't think that's their role. If you think about the past period, it is also possible that they were involved in the Fidesz election campaign, either directly or indirectly, but these are all traceable stories. The head of the Hungarian Academy of Arts himself supports Orbán and his politics with consistent openness, as I see it and experience it. I don't think that's his role and that's not his job. In this sense, I believe that we are not on the right track in this regard. On the one hand, the establishment of the Hungarian Academy of Arts - perhaps not so much there yet - but in terms of its functioning and in relation to this bill, it can be said that this process is the end of independent culture, the strengthening of this process in Hungary. And I would like to add one more thing to the end, that is that the linking and pooling of the funds of the Hungarian Academy of Arts and the National Cultural Fund is a sort of - how should I put it? - as a political fidelity prize, as a wage of loyalty, which is unacceptable. So, if financial resources are to be deployed within the framework of the Fund, action must be taken in line with tasks and not with political objectives. You know, the negotiation of this draft law today is for me like the negotiation of item 1, which brought here small amendments to the electoral law, and legally suggested that before a later election in 2018, it could be argued that we had already discussed the electoral law in this term, so why the opposition was dissatisfied when it was not a small amendment that should have been made, but the multitude of torsos that could have been taken from the experience of the previous elections should have been corrected. Now I will not go back to that agenda, I will not repeat the lesson of what I think, I would just like to say, that in his thinking and philosophy something similar is going on here, too: while we are talking about some deregulation and simplification, which, of course, I add, is also eligible, but while, as I said, they are attacking, occupying, expropriating and excluding others from these processes. I think that this is absolutely wrong, therefore for my part, but also based on the opinion of our lead speaker on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party, it is clearly not eligible. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Peter Hoppál, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-19-89	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I definitely think it is important that I respond briefly to the speech and the expression of the keynote speaker and his representatives. Allow me to express my first thanks for the support of both the Fidesz Group, the KDNP Group and the Group for Jobbik Hungary. Let me also respond to the fact that I thought that the technical amendment to the legislative package would be more relevant, and I think that we have given priority to the position of the government ethos that we consider the presence of nationalities in the Hungarian museum and library system as a significant value. This pass of the package of laws, I see that it only touched on the minority advocates, but I think it is a social issue that we have just heard the value-keeping that Imre Ritter spoke about, the value-gathering, maintenance, documentation and transmission, is also helpful by making technical amendments to the law on this subject, namely that, in respect of the assembly circle, ethnic base institutions, museum institutions, which have either county or territorial scope, can carry out this activity in their entire national territory. I think that this contributes to the value-keeping that we have included in the Fundamental Law, and in part, civil governance has shown in a number of effective regulations that go beyond gestures, how important this value is to us from a total social point of view. Allow me to answer the question raised by the spokesperson in so far as we are in writing a government programme in the area of landscapes that does not belong to us at this very moment. Dr. Miklós Cseri, Director General of the Szentendre Museum of Open Air Ethnography, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, is writing a programme - and he has just reported it to the State Secretariat - which will cover the social positioning of the landscape houses, the issues of ethnic landscape houses. And I very much hope that within a short period of time, within a few years, some kind of special resource will be mobilised to renovate the poor landscape houses. Thank you very much, Mr Spokesman, for giving us this opportunity. As far as our ideological collision is concerned: allow me to say that I obviously expected that our left-wing fellow Members' speeches would be opposed, not primarily, to the technical amendment of the cultural law, but, of course, to the current amendment of the NCA Act, and, mutatis mutandis, you have also undertaken to do so. [[14.00]] However, if we look a little further at this question, what is going on in Hungary: I understand that it is necessary to express strongly from a left-wing faction or from an independent seat of representatives when the minimum cooperation between the NKA and the Hungarian Academy of Arts is brought before Parliament by legislation by the Christian-Conservative civilian majority, but I would nevertheless like to post a series of manifestations that we have heard from our fellow Member, István Hiller, first of all, and then from the following left-wing speakers, as a powerful exaggeration. I feel like that's actually the 19th. Speaking with the styles of Romanticism of the century, which uses such expressions, that this process may result in the end of the independent culture, in the last sentences of Congressman Nándor Gúr, was one of these, and István Hiller, former Minister of Culture, also made manifestations of a kind that referred to a dark period of total loss of culture and death before us, I feel that these manifestations are immensely excessive. I have to say this because in the Romance era, too, it is the 19th century. In the century, at the time of the reform, the period when Hungarian poetry dealt with the vision of national death. Many of their excellent, fantastic poetry works, which form the main curriculum, still feature that, if this continues, we will no longer speak Hungarian, this is the end of Hungarian culture, and we can really sprinkle salt into everything we have considered Hungarian over the past millennium. So, while during the period of reform we can quote a series of poetic manifestations from this era, while our national greats, our national elites created for Hungarian science the public body and the institution, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, whose existence and activity no one now thinks to question. I think we have repaid debt by establishing the Hungarian Academy of Arts. The Hungarian National Assembly and the Hungarian State have released a tension that has lasted since the time of reform, with the fact that for the Hungarian scientific community, it has been nearly 200 years with a well-functioning public body of science, while restoring balance and establishing the public body of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. If the representatives of Hungarian science were homogeneous, as they are not, then you would have the right to expect us not to have a homogeneous political body representing Hungarian art. Showing up the art academy here as a political body, I think it's a fool's errand. After all, none of us know where the members of the public body, the academics, stand or think in their personal political beliefs. So I think it's a pity to say this and to give the various media organizations more and more ammunition by saying that the guilty Academy of Arts is completely unilateral and politically completely determined and only homogeneous right-wing, anti-left alliance. It's not like that. The members themselves object to this rating. Just as we cannot show any direction in the membership of the Academy of Sciences that it is a conglomerate of left-wing people. If you say that, it's better to stop expressing yourself on such matters, I think. Neither the Academy of Sciences nor the Academy of Arts in this sense, if we are talking about equivalence, it is not worth accusing and attacking such content questions. I would like to make one more important comment on the balance between the two: this is a distinction that can be made in the state budget, that there is still no balance between the state support of the scientific public body and the state support of the public body of art. In this case, I would ask you to turn to the fact that the Hungarian State has mobilised only HUF 5.5 billion from the budget to the Hungarian Academy of Arts in the 2015 state budget, while the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has mobilised around HUF 48 billion from the Hungarian state budget. Ten times the multiplier for the benefit of my fellow Members, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I consider this appropriate, because in the case of a large 150, nearly 200-year-old institution, the expansion of the organizational structure and the enormous nature of the tasks, the already established academic benefits, make it possible for the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to occupy a high position in the Hungarian state budget. The Academy of Arts is still on a path that tries to achieve this parallel equilibrium step by step, and in this we are still very, very far from approaching the positions of the scientific public body. In this sense, therefore, the term "feudal reservation of MMA" from the mouth of István Hiller, whom I admire, can be regarded as a poetic and romantic exaggeration. I would consider their words in defense of the NKA to be fundamentally appreciated. However, if we look at the 1993 context, when the NCA law came before the House, the opposition at the time also hysterized the then public discourse and the NCA law was adopted as an attack on culture. Today's situation almost exactly rhymes with the context at that time. I feel that the visions of that time, the predictions of that time, did not work either, because today our fellow Member, István Hiller, honoured us with the argument for the operation of the NKA here in plenary. He says that the past 20 years of the NKA have just been an important foundation for supporting Hungarian culture, and any change is a general attack on culture. Obviously, we disagree. But again, 22 years ago, as Congressman Szabolcs Szabó mentioned, my predecessor at the time, perhaps it should be said that the cultural secretary of state of the Antall government was indeed Mr.György Fekete, professor emeritus, and today he regards the tasks of funding culture and the functioning of culture from the office of President of the Academy of Art in Hungary. And if we say that in 93 he was attacked by the left-wing opposition because of the NKA Act, and today he is attacking by the MMA, then we are probably on the right track and in the right direction. After all, the events of the year 93 were confirmed by time, and we can be very confident that the events of 2015 will be confirmed by the 20 years ahead. I do not hide the fact that, in terms of science and art, an equal approach to science and art can also be derived from centuries of European cultural history and cultural history behind us. Obviously, it is not a question to approach the subject so much in its Provenienity, but when we think about arts, European arts, arses, then its roots from the period of Hellenism, as well as the manifestation of the system of medieval septem artes liberales in school education, the education of the seven free arts in arms reveals the importance of art and science in the working of the educated head of man. For a millennium, the school system has revealed an equal approach to science and art in Hungary and across Europe, and has tried to pass on the knowledge in which, in addition to science, arts are involved. Entirely important emphasis should be placed on commitment to arts in the positive role of the whole human being in society. In the same way, the cultivation of science is the basic requirement of the educated head of man. So, if the Academy of Arts, returning to our subject, is given the opportunity, in agreement with the Minister for Culture, to try the most important leg of cultural funding, the budget of the approximately 10 billion-dollar National Cultural Fund, in such a way that, in the case of colleges setting up the art product, the Academy of Arts has a delegation right of one third to decide on certain applications, then I think that only this balance will be restored. [[14.10]] I respectfully inform you that 16 art academics sit in today's NKA college structure, so regardless of whether they are on national or international stage, universities or foreign art academies, they are in position, regardless of whether they are delegated by the minister or by professional bodies to make decisions in the National Cultural Fund. I believe that by the fact that their delegation will now be done by the academy, not by the professional bodies, by means of which there will be no damage to the system, mechanism or mechanism of the distribution of money, there will be no such romantic vision that a huge extension of the Hungarian culture will take place. If, for such an idea, I have come to the end, let me also confirm to you - István Ikotity in response to the words of our fellow Member - that the MMA is draining air and resources from others. I see the opposite. The MMA has created an additional opportunity to sponsor and support Hungarian art. Even in the last two years, when I was at the National Salon exhibitions, I saw that I had already entered the hall hall, just as I saw exhibitors from among our greatest artists, even those who were not members of the academy, because they did not, on some basis, agree to do so. Walking through the exhibitions, I saw a manifestation of the works of the great, self-portraited spiritual creators on the walls. I think that's appropriate. I feel that today's thinking is so liberal, that it is not only that the majority of exhibitors in the Kunsthalle can only be admitted from a kind of political tendency, let us say, but the opposite of that, in the National Salon, exactly the ten years of architectural production, and the last time the art collection was presented in full spectrum by today's Maintenance Academy of Arts. I saw that the openings also included prominent representatives of the left-wing intellectuals, prominent representatives of the left-wing art world. I don't think it's a good thing that we always try to separate it with a scalpel and razor sharp, that some actors who are here on such an occasion are now becoming traitors because, knowing them, they are left-wing thinkers at a great exhibition opened by the Secretary of State on the Right. I think it would be right if we could talk about the whole of Hungarian culture - as it really is a legacy and a present to be preserved and developed - which cultivates values, creates values and creates values for the future. I feel that this proposal, in addition to technical amendments, will serve this purpose in cooperation with the MMA-NKA, and I am here, not only with a clear conscience, but with confidence, that this amendment will help to create new art products in the spirit that I have just tried to tell you. I would like to ask with respect that, as the Group of the Movement for Jobbik Hungary has read the draft law and, as I see it, expressed its support, my fellow Members should consider changing their strict and sometimes romantic views, perhaps by reviewing the draft. However, I thank you all for your kind contribution to the debate on the law. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-19-90	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain social, child protection, family support and other related laws until closure. Government referral T/742. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Katalin Veresné Novák, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-11-19-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, We have arrived at a very important and complex legislative proposal in Parliament today, which is important on the one hand, and the main reason it is important is that it is again about supporting Hungarian families and helping Hungarian families in everyday life. Another important element is that this shows how handy the social and family areas work with each other, and that these two areas cannot be separated from each other, because we are here before the House with a complex bill, many of which, by the way, praises the work of the State Secretariat responsible for social and social inclusion, they have worked on this. Other elements are the basic work of our Secretary of State for Family and Youth, but overall, it is in the presentation of the Ministry of Human Resources here before you. This complex proposal has basically six important elements. I would like to make these known to you now. First of all, as an introduction, I would like to say that this current bill is once again an important element of the family-oriented governance that we announced in 2010 and which we have been consistently pursuing since 2010 for the fifth year. We also need to legally create the framework conditions for regulation, the rules that make the various forms of care available to families raising children in their daily lives, make life more viable for them, take or take over from their burden of raising children. With regard to the social sector, we pay particular attention to families that live in a difficult situation, and here, too, focussing primarily on children and the interests of children, we shape regulation, the legal conditions, so that we can respond best to realistic needs. So the six main elements that this bill contains are the following. The first is the change of day care for young children and the proposal for the conversion of this system, the second relates to the feeding of children, the third concerns the extension of the pedagogical career for young children with a higher education degree, the fourth concerns the extension of certain family support benefits and the related simplifications, the fifth concerns the integration of family support and child welfare services, and the sixth relates to the capacity regulation of social services. I would like to present these six points to you in more detail in the next few minutes. The first is therefore about the day-to-day care of young children. Anyone who raises a small child, or who has a family with small children, or children under three years of age, knows that in order for parents to be able to work, both of them need to be able to place their children somewhere during the day. If there are grandparents nearby, if there are family members who can trust the baby or the baby to do so, that's fine. If it is not, and unfortunately this is often the reality in Hungary today, then they need to look for some other help, and in this case, kindergarten care is the main issue. Cradle care is of extremely high quality in Hungary, but it is true that it is not yet available to everyone, and there are also territorial differences in Hungary at present, thanks to which, let's say, it is easier to give the child to a nursery in a larger settlement than in a smaller settlement, and that is not necessarily true. There may also be differences between settlements, where appropriate, with regard to crèches. At present, there are opportunities that allow children to be placed in other forms of care, but we see that with the continued willingness of women to work and the steady increase in women's employment, as, to add, women's employment is currently at a peak in Hungary and there is a steady increase, which means that the need for supervision of children during the day is also constantly increasing. [[14.20]] We have to respond to this growing demand in time, and we have done so in the last five years, as we have spent 28 billion forints to create or renew crèches. This meant the creation of more than 6400 cradle seats, the renewal of over 4,000 cradle seats in recent years, and in the coming period we have allocated HUF 100 billion for the purpose of creating nursery and kindergarten seats. So, on the one hand, we have such a task and such a voluntary commitment to raise the number of crèches from 46,000 to 60,000. This is what we are doing in the coming period, but what we see is that we can also take forward-looking steps in regulation that will enable more parents, more families, to supervise children during the day. At present, the system seems to impose a crèche management obligation for settlements above 10 thousand people, and there is no such obligation for settlements below 10 thousand persons. We are now proposing in this bill, and I ask your support for this, that the municipalities make additional commitments, because now we are saying that if there are at least 40 children under three years of age in a settlement, or if there are five children whose parents require supervision of the child during the day, then the municipality must provide this for it. With this we can guarantee parents, families, that if there is a need, they will be able to solve custody on the spot. And in order to make this a realistic task for the municipalities, we introduce greater flexibility in the forms of supply than before, because it does not mean the same in a small settlement, where appropriate in a small village, in a small village, the organization of babysitting, such as, say, in a larger settlement of 8-9 thousand people, so that it will be possible to choose from four types of kindergarten care, this kindergarten, the minibottle, the family nursery and the nursery at work. Operators can be both non-profit and for-profit players, and the level of funding will depend essentially on this. But overall, we can say that there will be a more flexible, realistic, multi-opportunity system for the day-to-day care of young children, and funding will also improve compared to the current one. I hope that this will really make families who are raising young children feel that they will be given real help in the problem of day - to - day placement of children. [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Loránt Hegedűs.]] I would say here, preventing any question, that this concerns the future of the family daycare center in so far as, after the compulsory preschool from 3 years of age has been introduced from 1 September, the kindergarten children are either in kindergarten or, if the parent has requested and received an exemption, they are at home with the family. For this reason, family daycare, in the future, will basically be needed in the care of children under the age of 3, and this will, of course, be possible in the future, with even better funding than the current one. I would also add that in recent years, we have not only built, expanded, renovated, but also significantly improved funding. Thus, in addition to a 30% increase in crèches in crèches, which took place from 2010 to 2015, we were able to improve the funding of crèches by 25 percent compared to 2010. So I am confident that with these conceptual proposals, with your support, we will be able to create a regulation that, from 1 January 2017, gives the people concerned enough preparation time, it will really give families more opportunities. The introduction of 1 January 2017 is for preparation, but the reason why we are already making this bill known and asking for its adoption is because it is important for the use of development resources to be known to those involved and to be able to ask for support. The second important point is to change the regulation of institutional child feeding. There has also been a lot of talk in this House about children's meals, and rightly so, and I think this is an extremely important issue. I am pleased that the issue is finally in its place, and we are finally talking about this at least as many times as it is worth talking about. What sign and what distortion or distortion, if any, is a different question, I'm judging the amount of discourse now only in this case. It is a very important indicator, in my opinion, that the proportion of free meals for children in kindergarten and kindergarten has increased from 25 percent to 90 percent. So once again, this means that 90 percent - more than 90 percent of children in kindergarten - currently receive free meals three times a day in Hungary. We can be proud of this, and I suggest that everyone should be proud of this achievement, because I believe that this is a very significant achievement and can provide very serious help to families whose children go to daycare or kindergarten. Thus, the expansion of free children's meals throughout the last five years has been a major objective, for you, too, and I think it is well known that budgetary resources reflect this commitment, as we have raised the funds for this from HUF 29 billion in 2010 to HUF 72 billion in 2016. It is also about children being in the nursery during the week, kindergarten, school, but what happens during breaks, what happens when there is no education, or when the nursery closes, the kindergarten closes. This proposal, drawn up by the Secretary of State, Czibere, provides a solution to this, as we raise the amount of children's meals on holiday, and according to the previous tender system, which actually made it conditional on the commitment of the local authorities how the holiday meal will take place in the given settlement, it now requires this as a mandatory task from 2016 to become a mandatory municipal task, namely a holiday meal. Despite the fact that this is a municipal task, the funding will be financed entirely from the central budget, with HUF 4.5 billion planned for next year's budget. Once again, this means that children will receive hot food not only during school periods or not only during the opening hours of kindergartens and nurserys, but also during the autumn break, winter break, spring break or even during the long summer break, which can be a very serious help for children in need. The third point concerns the pay situation of young children, which is about extending the teaching career. We have introduced a sectoral allowance for daycare workers, thus improving their financial situation, and I believe that Mr Czibere, State Secretary, will still have good news for the future after yesterday's government meeting. At the same time, we have seen that we can increase the wage situation of young children in nursery schools with higher education, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, their recognition, reputation, and support by bringing them into the pedagogical career. You will remember that the extension of the pedagogical career has already taken place in one step with regard to certain actors in the social sphere, as from 1 September 2013 we have recruited those employed in the child protection specialist care institutions and in the correctional institutions. Now, from January 1st next year, we will also include children's educators in nursery schools. Another important element that has perhaps been mentioned so far is that adoption consultants working in regional child protection services will be included in the pedagogical career from 1 January. This represents a serious help for more than 900 people, up to 30-40 percent, a net salary increase of 40-60 thousand forints per month as of 1 January 2016. We also want to acknowledge the value of the work that they do every day for our children. The next important point of our bill is the expansion of family support benefits and the further facilitation of certain eligibility and claim conditions. The most important element of this is the extra expansion of the lawn. Before 2014 - I do not think it can be remembered enough - before 2014, if a mother or a father returned to the labour market in parallel with the payment of family support benefits in 8 hours, then he certainly fell short of these benefits, i.e. he didn't have the money, he didn't have the money if he worked full-time. [[14.30]] This has been changed with the Gyed extra since 1 January 2014, so nearly 50,000 people have been using it in 2014, and this interest is constantly increasing, which is practically meaning that if a parent goes back from his child to the labour market and is in both places, as he works and raises his children in the same way, he is entitled to the same benefits as raising children, as if he could devote his entire time to being at home with the children. After all, returning to the labour market is partly a matter of choice and partly of opportunity. We also want to increase the freedom of choice, because it is always necessary to add to this sentence that it was just us, it was this government that immediately after the formation of the government in 2010, one of the first decisions brought back the previously terminated third year child. So, at the same time, let us give someone the opportunity to stay at home with their child for 3 years and raise him to devote all his time to it or to return to the labour market and not to lose those benefits. In addition, you have a sibling who supports the fact that even if children are born in a rapid succession, there should be no financial disadvantage for the family, so it could be a double child or triple benefit compared to the previous ones, or a graduate or student ged, which gives fresh graduates or young people working in higher education a year's worth of legal opportunities that they didn't have before. [[Attila Gelencsér takes his place in the notary seat.]] What is the point of this change? From 1 January onwards, not only one year old, but from the age of 6 months of the baby, mothers can return to the labour market without falling away from these benefits, so from the age of 6 months the baby will be entitled to the extra child, whether the child or the child, even if they return to work. If you look at the maximum amount of the lawd, then this, think about it, in a family's life, could mean up to HUF 900 thousand, almost HUF 1 million in surplus income, which is a very serious help. I hope that by extending the ged extra from 1 January, we can again give many mothers the freedom of choice, and they feel that we support them even if they want to work with the little child or are forced to work. The fifth element is the integration of family support and child welfare services. Here the aim is, and the work of the social secretary of state is also praised by this part of the bill, to pay more attention to disadvantaged families, disadvantaged children, people living in less-favoured areas in general, and to an integrated system of government in the future that will ensure more effective care for these families and these people. This amendment also involves raising resources, this is a 10% source, which means this, but it is not in the current law, but this decision has already been made. Here family and child welfare centres are created from the integration of the two types of services, which also appear as mandatory municipal tasks. Here, by means of a supply contract, municipalities will now have the opportunity to implement this type of care through a supply contract, whether for themselves, through non-state, church or private providers. I think these are the main elements of this current bill in this regard. To do so, it may be worth adding that we are also increasing the number of child welfare centers. This is where district centres are set up and the number of these centres is quadrupled, from 48 to 197, so the supply will be safer, more integrated, more efficient and more accessible than at present. Finally, the last point relates to the capacity regulation of social services. Here the aim was to create a fair system that responds to real needs, based on a more efficient allocation of capacities, and there are different changes, such as monthly data on the number of Taj for those waiting for social services. Here, people already receiving benefits who have already submitted their applications to other service places will be screened for multiple unnecessary reproductions. In the case of basic social services, in the event of underutilisation of already received capacities, unlawful operation of the service provider or insufficient territorial coverage, the NRSR, i.e. the National Rehabilitation and Social Office, may be withdrawn in whole or in part. I hope that these detailed rules, or these adjustments, will also result in social benefits being even more aimed at creating a more high-quality, even more flexible and even more nationally accessible system for those in difficulty, for those in need of social protection. I ask for your support for the adoption of this bill, because I think that we can, in addition to the detailed rules to be adopted in the implementing regulation, set out framework conditions that will be able to improve the situation of families again from next year and from the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-92	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-19-93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The most important thing for Fidesz is the child. In the past, the child's commitment was also synonymous with taking on poverty. Many left-wing governments have generally tried to deal with this with a weak social policy and aid system, but Fidesz thinks completely differently. Today, Fidesz's family policy focuses on the recognition and support of childbearing, child rearing. So we are thinking about family policy, and this is how we want to support families. If we look at the tool system, what is part of family policy, which can be part of family policy, then I would like to mention the Hungarian tax system in the first place here, the Hungarian family tax system also serves this purpose. In addition to one of the lowest personal income tax rates at European level, which is now 15 percent - which the opposition has not voted for - the tax relief for children is very helpful to families raising children, and from 2014 onwards, thanks to the support of the Secretary of State, we have already extended this. So we extended the use of the child tax allowance to the contributions, so we were able to help the families in the poorer ranks, and we were able to help families with lower incomes, because now they are able to take advantage of the tax relief for children. As I recall, opposition representatives did not vote for this law either. But if you look at the asset system, let me also mention the reduction of the rent, because politicians who deal with these issues know very well that supporting housing, reducing housing costs is a very big help in reducing poverty, a very big help in helping families with poorer fates. Thus, the reduction of the rent is also a means of supporting families. Fidesz's family policy is very important, and its values are that we support the family's decision as to whether or not the mother will take up a job in addition to raising children. Of course, this was not always the case, since there were socialist politicians or political wives who stood up and believed that they had the Philosopher's Stone, and they could say that they could quasi order mothers to go back to work immediately, give the child to the nursery, because that is right. We don't think it's right, but we say that as the family decides, politics, politicians have to support it. Let families decide what situation they are in, what is the best solution for them, and what they have decided will be supported by us. Classically, such a tool is the ged extra. [[14.40]] The Gyed extra said that the mothers who decided to go to work alongside raising children because they were building their careers, or because they needed them, need that income in the family, those families, after both the mother - and the father - stood in both places, also mentioned the Secretary of State in her expo, that they were able to raise children and stand up in their jobs, they would all receive both existences. So they get their wages, and besides, they get their children or children, so they get maternity benefits and family benefits. This was a very, very important decision, it was a law amendment, and I would not like to come up with statistical data now, but everyone can see that the mother's work has jumped after that, and if I remember correctly, Hungary has been at the forefront of the increase in women's employment. So it was the right decision, and I very much hope that we were able to help families, mothers, in substance; indeed, all respect is for those who work and raise children. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Secretary of State, In this bill, we welcome and support the extension of the ged extra and the recommendation. The child will be available from the age of 6 months, as we have heard in the expozee. This will be extended by further easing the conditions for working under family benefits. I also consider it very important that the payment of family support benefits to be paid in September has already been made in August this year, and this was a trial operation, but this was a success. Why wouldn't it have been successful, the school starts in September, you have to shop in August. Here I mention that more than 50 percent of children already have free textbooks, but they also need to be spent at school start-ups. So we moved this payment from September to August. That's how it's gonna be in the normal run now. We welcome and support this. There is a very big problem in Hungary - I think all over Europe - bureaucracy. We welcome all the steps that can be taken together with the need for a baby care fee and a child care fee, so there is no need for two separate administrations that no one likes, so after the end of the family you can automatically pay the ged. We consider this to be a very good decision, and we will also support this point of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, Mrs. Secretary of State. We also support the strengthening and extension of the day-to-day care of children. We consider this transformation to be a very good decision. We know from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs that he is extremely committed to this area. We know that according to the current regulations, only settlements with more than 10 000 inhabitants have been required to operate crèches so far. Madam State Secretary said in her exposé that this will now be a much stronger law, so there will also be a change in smaller settlements. This provision will continue to apply, but it will be mandatory to provide nursery care for settlements of less than 10 000 persons if there is a demand for at least five children or if the number of residents under the age of three exceeds 40. Here, of course, you can argue in the details; I think the trend is good. At the municipalities of settlements of less than 10 thousand persons, the draft contains so much relief that they will be able to perform this task by providing facilities and services in kindergarten. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz has been working on reducing child poverty since its entry into the government. We have also taken a number of measures on this issue. The goal is there, there were no big debates, we know that our goal is to reduce child poverty. Everyone agrees on that. There is usually some debate in the instruments, although we have not experienced much debate here either. Today, Hungary has a very generous and good free catering system at European level. I would like to say here that while in 2010 there was only HUF 29 billion in the budget that could be spent on free catering, this will be HUF 71 billion next year. This is more than double, two and a half times the amount for 2010. We need this comparison to see that since 2010, since the formation of the civilian government, we are not only determined and determined to resolve the mass catering, to help families through mass catering, but also to act to do a great deal for children. More than half of schoolchildren now receive free three meals a day in schools, and more than 90 percent of children in daycare and kindergartens. You have also mentioned this, Madam Secretary. And this summer, this summer, the municipalities could apply, and those who asked for it also received money for free catering. By the way, the money left in this register, but this money can be used to support winter feeding, so no forints will be lost from this register. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, We welcome and support the proposal tabled, which therefore extends this free catering. This is what we have heard in the expozee that the municipalities will now not only be able to decide and apply for the summer feeding, but will be obliged to solve it, and in the implementing regulation it will be precisely regulated as to the cases in which they are obliged to organise and give free catering to these children. However, let me mention here that opposition representatives, not having any other subject, have started a very bad game. I remember first saying no to the budget that significantly increased this register, and then once again saying no to next year's budget, where we already gave HUF 71 billion for free catering. Then the government and the government representatives who guarantee free public catering by law, put the money in the budget - we have mentioned here that it will be 71 billion forints next year - are attacked by the government who is coordinating with civilians, thanking them for their work, incorporating the proposals of civilians in the proposals, and even supporting these civilians with money to organize various actions and events. Allow me to say that this is political cannibalism. Ladies and gentlemen, We welcome and support the strengthening of the child protection system. We also support it because this law, this legislation, treats children and families in a holistic way. This should also be reflected in the use of the term that the service covers all children, families, childrenless families and single persons in the supply area. Family and child welfare services are a mandatory municipal task, and the government is at odds financially and in resources to ensure that the municipalities perform these tasks well. Ladies and gentlemen, So, as I said, the Fidesz faction welcomes this legislative amendment package, and we will support this amendment with our votes. Let me also thank you for the fact that, as has been said, the two secretaries of state are working hand in hand, working together to ensure that, in the future, Hungarian families feel supported not only through the law, but also feel that society and politicians appreciate that if they take on a child, if they take up a job alongside raising children. So thank you very much for this work, and we support the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2015-11-19-94	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Head Speaker of the MSZP Group, will be taking the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-19-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, Honourable Secretary of State and Honourable Members of the Council. Listening to the speakers before me, we could say that everything in this country is fine, there is no problem, the sun is shining out there, everyone is happy, let's pack our bags and go home, because there is no more business for Parliament - and now I was quite cynical, so take it! [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Well, that's not true. Secondly, my colleague Gabriella Selmeczi said that no proposal from the opposition was ever voted in favour of the welfare of families, we did not support the budget, last year, this year or next year, we did not support the introduction of a single-key tax. Then let's get something straight, Congresswoman. An innumerable amendment will be tabled on family support, social issues, health issues or any matter; it will not be included in Parliament, here, in plenary, because the majority of the Fidesz-CNDP will vote against it at committee meetings. Now, to accuse us of not making any motion is not true. Now, let's look at what's in front of us, this amendment package. The proposal mainly covers three main areas. One is the re-regulation of children's meals, the systematic introduction of holiday meals. The second is the transformation of day care for children, which is not only about expanding the nursery system, but also about the employment of nursery workers with a higher education degree. The third major area is the modification of certain procedural rules for different family allowances, which are generally favourable, but do not affect the level of benefits, so that the amount of family allowances, children, children and maternity allowance remains unchanged. And then let's get to it - because it was just a statement - on our comments. It is not known what kind of budget support will be given to the new forms of intraday supply, and without knowing the details there are quite a lot of other uncertainties in the system, which affects not only personal but also material conditions. For example, in the previous government referral, the number of children in each type of institution should be provided by caregivers. New concepts, new care systems are introduced, one system of care is the elimination of minibecca, the other is the family day care centers and the creation of family day care centers, the creation of day care centers and the provision of day care. Today, more than 16 percent of children in kindergarten are in a type of institution, more than 12 percent in the state system, the nursery, and almost 3 percent of children or more than 3 percent in the family day care. We are quite behind the commitments, Hungary has committed to 33 percent of the commitment that 33 percent and more than one third of children will go to the nursery until 2019. I think that this should be fully appreciated, that the government is striving to achieve this, unfortunately, unfortunately, according to the latest directions, only 25 percent of the government plans until 2019, and not 33 percent. I pointed out at the beginning that we do not see the establishment of a budget resource, and what is interesting is that, according to a proposal, the children over the age of 3 will receive the same kindergarten support, the family nursery will receive only 70 percent support, the day care will receive 30 percent support, and the children over the age of 3 will receive zero forints. I'd like to know if that's true. It is also very important, one of the essential things to be able to have children in the family, the existence of jobs, the provision of jobs, and, yes, the institutional system should also be such that a child can be accepted in families. I think that it was also a strong enough statement that there was a risk of poverty to have children only during the past governments, which remains the case, and today in Hungary the greatest risk of poverty is that a couple can have children. The other amendment is the 10th amendment. § 12 of the Act provides for the provision of a child's meal at the request of the parents. Paragraph 1 states that it must be ensured unless the parent otherwise provides - this is contradictory. The latter approach is currently included in the law. Similar dilemmas lie in the regulation of holiday meals, the 14th. §, where it is included within a section, that it must be ensured at the request of the parent, and that on those days the municipality is obliged to organise it and to provide it at the request of the parent. It is worth noting that, according to Károly Czibere's announcement, next year there will be a total of HUF 4.5 billion for holiday meals, which is included in the budget, which was already accepted in the summer, compared to this in a reply in mid-September, the portfolio said that according to the preliminary plans, children in need should be defined as a compulsory municipal task, which should be covered by the budget. So, despite the adoption of next year's budget in July, in September, the wallet did not see the cover for a holiday meal to be established. In addition, the introduction of free catering, and we have repeatedly called attention to this, was designed for about HUF 9.5 billion, for free meals in kindergarten and crèches, and we have already called attention to the fact that this amount will not be enough, it should be about double. The mayor of Gödöllő pointed out that the city of Gödöllő has to provide approximately HUF 50 million this year in addition because the government does not support this compulsory care at 100%. In recent weeks, there has been a rather sharp debate about the national minimum within Parliament and outside Parliament, and how we stand, whether there is hunger in Hungary or not, and I would now like to read some data. Fidesz has manipulated numbers to prove that none of the governments have ever done as much against child poverty as they have. They claim that 90 percent of small children, 318 thousand small children, receive school and kindergarten meals. In contrast, according to official data, there are 475 thousand children under the age of 4, 482 thousand 5-9 years and 490 thousand 10-14 years of age in Hungary, i.e. 1 million 13 thousand children under 14 years of age. It's a mystery how the Fidesz people came up with the 318 grand number and 90 percent of what it is; it would be nice if we could clear that up. But they manipulate me with numbers even when they talk about unprecedented budgetary resources, this is 70 billion forints. It consists of three sources: parental payment, municipal money and central budget support. The state figure increased to 70 billion was due to a drastic reduction in the municipal part, and the state must make up for this loss of resources. However, according to Tarki, there are 50,000 children starving regularly in Hungary today, and according to Gallup's survey, which appeared in 2014, the highest proportion of those in Hungary where they cannot provide basic food is 47 percent, and the OECD report that Hungary is the worst performing in unexpected spending: 76 percent of households today cannot finance an unexpected expenditure, we are talking about 50 thousand forints here, so when these families need to raise money unexpectedly from somewhere, 76 percent of them cannot do it. [[15.00]] In the case of food, the negative situation, the answer to our question of modifying the concepts of a cumulative disadvantage, has become clear that the number of children who, according to the new concept, will fall into this category has decreased significantly. So, they've tightened access to the children. It's not clear that it's 11. In Section 5 of the Act, why only the mini-cradle is assigned to the nursery as a place where institutional meals are to be provided. What about family and work crèches, they are not institutional provisions? What rules will it be necessary to provide food for children there? For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 44/B. Paragraph 1 (a) refers to kindergarten education. It is interesting because, in principle, kindergarten care is mandatory for everyone over three years of age, but for those who are exempted, it is subject to point (b). It is absurd how the regulation tries to cover life situations where it allows the provision of day-to-day child care in its own home. What's the need for that? It is also interesting that, according to the rules, care should not be provided for educational purposes, but it should be helped to continue school studies in the home. It is regulated that, in the case of family nursery and day care, the number of agreements may exceed the number of seats registered in the register, but it is true that the number of children provided cannot exceed the number provided in time; however, the data of day care should not be recorded if they do not receive the maintenance state aid. Then why do they control the numbers? The CSOs also presented their proposals on the new scheme at the meeting of the Sub-Committee on Women's Dignity of the Cultural Committee on Day benefits. One of these is that in the case of the family nursery that is organized into the network, the coordinator will be given a wage supplement; children who are currently receiving a kindergarten exemption may still be able to go through the daycare period in kindergartens; civil society organisations will be short on 40-hour courses; BDDSZ has complained that the increase in wages due to the use of the educational career model for daycare workers only affects 10 percent of the employees, so it would be important to take further steps in the interest of 90 percent as well. Some civil society organisations have complained that the government has no longer set itself the Barcelona goals of achieving 33 per cent for children of nursery age by 2019, but we are talking about 25 per cent. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It is interesting that the justification details the explanation of the delegated provisions for the following. With regard to holiday meals, the implementing regulation will provide that the local government may provide children with a leisure programme, in particular during the summer break, in connection with the holiday meal. The organisation of leisure programmes can be an effective tool to prevent rumbles. It will also be included in the implementing regulation that during the holiday meal, the southern hot lunch should be provided primarily by local consumption. If there is no possibility to eat locally, a holiday meal can be provided by taking the food or delivering it to the child. Among other things, keeping the kitchen closed or the lack of a cooking kitchen or the lack of a heating kitchen itself may be an obstacle to local consumption. By clarifying the transformation of child welfare services, the tasks will be delegated even more to child welfare centres, and even less can be provided to the local child welfare services. In the case of Gyed, the parent can work at any time, and in the future the limit that the parent can only work and receive care together after the child is one year old will be removed. In the preamble to the Family Support Act, it is specifically about the responsibility for achieving the Hungarian population policy goals. At the end of the law, they already write about the population policy of the Hungarian nation. It is not clear when and why the government uses the concept of "Nation". I'm gonna ask for another 15-minute comment, 'cause I'm gonna want to finish it. We will make 14 amendments to this amendment, and I hope that we will finally get to the point where we will not hear that we cannot accept anything, but that the government will also make a gesture and accept our positive initiatives. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-19-96	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Rózsa Hoffmann, the lead speaker of the Christian Democratic People's Party Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-19-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We have a very carefully thought-out, well-prepared and well-coordinated bill number 7402. The Ministry of Human Resources should be thanked and recognised, at least two, if not three or four of its State Secretarys-General and, of course, the Government for all the efforts and results it has done to remedy one of the most serious problems of the present Hungarian community. And the most serious problem is the demographic situation in which the indicators are improving in a welcome way, but they still predict that if the Hungarian population continues to decline, the vision that philosophers and thinkers painted in the Reform Age is not so unrealistic. However, our government is doing everything it can to ensure that this does not happen, and one of the evidence of this is the series of measures that the second and then the third Orbán government has consistently been doing since 2010, and it also recalls in this bill. This, in turn, creates institutional frameworks and financial resources for a child and family policy that can ensure population growth and healthy development of children at a higher level and with greater effectiveness than it did in previous periods. There are many, many virtues in many details of this bill. If I had to highlight the greatest, perhaps I would point out that this is an integral part of our government's policy, that child protection, child care, family policy, social policy, I would also include certain elements of public education, and consider it as one unit, treating this very important task of the government only with a coordinated, uniform set of measures and, as Mrs Selmeczi Gabriella said, a holistic vision and holistic action can be improved. So I was happy to read all of this in the bill. And I am also pleased that for days now there has been a great deal of news in the media about the changes that this bill brings, and if there is a law that deserves this great media publicity, then this is just this, because it affects a lot of people, and it is very important that they know about it. I will not go through all the passages of the bill, which, of course, the Christian Democratic People's Party, whose policy the family and the child have a prominent place in, and what is more, plays a primary role, of course, fully supporting it, and participating in its development in different ways and at different times. However, I would like to highlight some of the context of this series of measures. As I said, since 2010, the second and later the third Orbán government has continued the policy that serves to make the situation of families and children significantly better. [[15.10]] I mean, the kid's having the best time in the family. That's why things are connected. As we know, in 2011, a public education law proposed by the Christian Democratic People's Party was adopted to ensure that all children from the age of three go to kindergarten. This was achieved from September 2015. This is now added in this bill to the fact that a very significant percentage of children in kindergarten will receive free care. Going to kindergarten from the age of three is essential from a pedagogical, developmental point of view. I was a little sad when I listened to the first opposition comment, because there was not a lot of thought behind what was said about the child's healthful spiritual, physical, emotional, moral development, but we heard some confusion about the manipulation of numbers. In doing so, I had to realize once again that there are political forces, there are thinkers in whose head the world is only material, statistical data that can be wrinkled and twisted according to their respective party interests. To argue that now 4.5 billion forints is much or less, or enough, or where they come from, is unnecessary in creating a law, since we do not yet have the experience data. In recent years, we have had the opportunity to hoot ahead of where money comes from, which is what I have heard from the speaker before me now that we do not know what kind of budget support these institutions will receive that will be created. Please, we have known for a long time that these are not defined by the basic laws, but by the budget law, the executive decrees. It has not been in the last five and a half years that the law provides for a task, and it cannot be fulfilled because the resources are not created for it. Therefore, it would not be necessary to complain, but to express the joy that there really are a number of measures in this law and that have already been adopted in the past and that it will be taken forward by the law for 2016,, 17 which suggests that the situation of our children will significantly improve. I'd like to say a few words about having a baby. Yeah, it's not exactly, it doesn't even have to be a law, God forbid we're gonna have to precisely regulate the technical details of how and how families need holiday meals. It's very right that the child's only entitled if the family demands it. Most of the Hungarian families - I can't give you an exact number here, but I can see it in my surroundings, in my village, where I live - either go on vacation, or stay home during the holidays taken, cook that lunch, and don't want to eat children. This country is not there yet to throw funds out the window for an activity that is not needed. On the other hand, the Christian Democratic People's Party agrees, of course, that poor children who have to suffer quite a lot of disadvantages in life will receive at least one warm meal a day. Let us hope that the country's development will lead to the fact that this measure will not be necessary for a decade or a few years. Cradle care. A significant part of this law is the early childhood education and the so-called day care. Perhaps it has not escaped the attention of my fellow Members that I said day care. This may be the only point where I criticize the law a little bit, because the Hungarian language does not comply, and as a teacher, as a Member, I am not very happy when I hear inappropriate expressions. I suggest we change it to daytime care, as it is a good Hungarian word. Just because it's already taken you in doesn't mean you have to record the wrong thing. But let's go back to day care in daycare. We have heard, as a criticism, that it is a great sin that the government reduced the 35 percent of nursery supplies in Barcelona to 25 percent. As far as I know, 17 percent of children go to daycare now. Now our goal is to make sure 35 percent of them actually go to daycare? The goal we have heard from Congressman Gabriella Selmeczi is that every family, every parent, is free to decide whether the mother wants to go back to work before the child is three years old, so whether a nursery is needed or not. And if that happens, we can exceed 25 percent, but the statistical processes have a law, and knowing the series of Hungarian social measures, which is now 17 percent, we don't have to artificially do 35 percent just because they decided in Barcelona. The emphasis is that if you want to work and have no other solution, you can place your child in a nursery. We don't even have to push 35 percent because we know it very well, and many of us have experienced it when our children were small, that kindergarten age is one of those times when the child gets sick very quickly, when his health and development may be damaged by his being in the community, because his immune system doesn't yet make him fit to tolerate infections. My personal life experience shows that many times the child has not been able to go to daycare because he was sick more than he could go to daycare. By about three years of age, a lot of children will grow stronger so that they can safely enter the community. Therefore, it is important to stress the point - I repeat - that where the family wishes, wishes, will that the mother can work, and there is no other solution than to go to the nursery, the government and the local government together create the condition of going to the nursery. But let's not set such absolute goals, because this reminds me eeriely of the many, many passwords announced at the beginning of socialism, that women in the mine, women in the tractor. There's a natural order of life that you don't have to do artificially, just because it's so very fashionable in the world. I welcome the change in the fact that a mandatory kindergarten from the age of three cannot be completed in the family daycare center. This was a point where I never supported this idea, even against my own party majority. I am pleased that the legislators have now taken this step. Not that family daycare wasn't necessary at the time, but it is a different institution than kindergarten, and if everyone is required, state and municipal kindergartens should be supported. There's no mention of a kindergarten at work in the draft, but there is a kindergarten at work. He is very supportive of the Christian Democratic People's Party, as long travelling can be a problem for small children. And the nursery at work is very often near or near the workplace of one of the parents, which also helps to protect children's health. It is a good thing that workers with a kindergarten degree line up into the pedagogical career in terms of wages. Once again, this shows precisely and well the conceptual policy and series of measures planned for years and gradually scheduled by the Ministry of Humanities and the Government. I remember well when the pedagogical career began, how much hooting was there from the opposition benches, first that I didn't have to, then where the money came from, and then the urgency was, yes, this and that and that. Although Hungary would be in a position to give huge wage increases to everyone at the same time, there are so many facts from recent years that the government has fulfilled its promises and does not leave anyone on the side of the road, gradually as its strength allows it, raises wages, that it is certainly welcome and gives rise to confidence. [[15.20]] To conclude, a rather important idea that I hear very little in communication and in politicians' mouths. It is very good that we feed children free of charge, it is very good that we take care of them to supervise the children, but let us not forget that feeding, raising, caring for the child is basically the responsibility of families, parents, who have undertaken the pleasures of raising children, and they know that this, of course, costs money on the market. But if we keep going on with the mentality that the state is going to help everyone, then there's a way for people to think that having kids isn't a parent thing. If the level of income rises, if the number of jobs increases, we can be confident that more families will be in a position to see this as a natural moral obligation and not a need for help from the state or the municipality. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which happens not to be in need of. I apologize and thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-19-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will try to go through the legislation and the proposal. I can't promise that I can do it during one speech, and I may have to push another button. I can agree with all efforts to tighten the multiple duplication from the user's side of the social care system, to take advantage of the backdoors of the system, to use more services than he would be entitled to or would be entitled to, and on the other hand, to filter out institutions or services that operate incorrectly. It's just that I have some concerns. We know very well what the practice has been in the past, and we know very well that there are many institutions, whether they are caring for the elderly or provide other care that does not comply with the legal requirements. What's the drill at a time like this? To receive the temporary operating permit continuously, because what to do with the recipients they provide, 150 elderly people cannot be put on the street overnight or stuffed back into their family or placed somewhere. In order for the system to function effectively, and until this is done, we will make any strict laws, otherwise, to be effective in the system, the government will have to work out to ensure that the beneficiaries can be provided in this case, because either they will find the loopholes in the new system and temporarily - or who knows how we will call them - will continue to work, or the controller will be forced to ignore certain irregularities, because he is not looking at the maintainer, but he is looking at the beneficiaries, or what happened to the social service provider in East Hungary, there could not be anything to do, there was suspicion of a crime, and the operating permit had to be terminated overnight, and from then, from one day to the next, there was a large number of elderly people left without care in the framework of home assistance. So for this, the government should develop a very good system, create the possibility that in this case the recipients will be taken over by some state institution for a transitional period, and then close institutions that have not complied with the most basic rules, and older people must live day by day in conditions that we would not wish for ourselves, anyone else, or our relatives, and I would not wish on either person. The other is the question of reception. This trick is very transparent. We know, so far, the system was that if a church maintainer took over an institution from a state maintainer or a local government maintainer, then in order that this would not happen in bulk, as it did a few years ago, the situation with the supplementary church normative is different for five years. This provision has ceased to exist, but the provision in this bill is in line with the need to initiate reception in the event of a maintenance change in order to obtain the state normative, and we know very well that in today's system, this inclusion is not going so easily. Many people in the system say that even with a knowledge of State Secretary, it is often very difficult to arrange for a service to be accepted. However, life brings situations, situations where a maintainer becomes impossible, and in order for the service to continue, it is forced to pass it on to another maintainer. This measure may be too strict for these cases. We can welcome those who have been unfairly left out of the system into the pedagogical career model. I'm trying to keep up with the short ones so I can see how long it takes. It's a matter of work crèches. This bill has not yet been introduced, it has not yet been anywhere, I was told about Tatabánya - as we know, I am currently living in Tatabánya, and we also know that Tatabánya has a very large industrial park - that many people there want to have some form of intraday placement of the child even within the industrial park. I understand that companies there are also willing to set up such an institution, but so far they have not had the opportunity or have encountered obstacles many times. This amendment may improve this situation and institutions providing day care for children will be established. I'm not talking about a day care center on purpose, because I'd imagine it a little wider. I would imagine this, because we know very well that - let's stick to the example I set - in industrial parks in many cases, companies work on three shifts, and in many cases, a parent with children, or a single parent, is held back from being able to move away from being able to ensure that their children are taken care of in their night shifts. Or we know very well that workers are coming from East Hungary to us in Western Hungary, and because this option is not given, there are very many parents in Eastern Hungary, whether they are single parents or two parents who do not take the country on their shoulders and come to the other side of the Danube to look for work, because they cannot provide for the placement of their children. As an amendment to this proposal, I was only able to make sure that the day-care centers in the workplace could work in three shifts, in line with the employer's working schedule. I would also suggest to the government - perhaps I will bring it to the House in a proposal for a resolution - that it be possible for other children to be provided with jobs, not only for the elderly, but also for the elderly, as well as for the three shifts. Turning to the big bite of the children's meal: we welcome each enlargement, which is trying to solve this very serious problem, but we have heard from other opposition speakers about the funding they receive at national level since its entry into force by the end of the year. I'd break it down to the most basic level, to the level of one. This is HUF 9400 for these four months, which is from the entry into force until the end of the year, and this is not enough to serve a preschool child during the day at the institution. Moreover, they are not receiving it now, or will not receive it in the current month, but will be paid in December. We know very well that there are kindergartens that live overnight, and that they may be devastated by their financial means and their budgets by the need to pre-finance an amount that they will not get all of them. Either the kindergartens have to take over this, or the municipality, I don't know, but it's such a burden for both of them that I'm not sure this is going to work smoothly. The other thing I do not understand, and I also tabled an amendment to this: if we acknowledge the aspects of children of the age of day care that are entitled to a free meal, I do not understand why these reasons, if they are over the age of six, will cease to exist. The fact that there are at least two other children in the family, so they are large families, is the same burden for the family even if the child is over the age of six. Or the fact that the level of income does not reach the amount set by law for preschoolers and crèches; if it persists after the age of six, it is equally difficult for a family in both primary and secondary school to pay the child's meal fee. It would be worth considering that, given that the criteria are correct at this age, I think they will remain appropriate in the future. [[15.30]] On the other hand, I regret that Rózsa Hoffmann has left, because I wanted to say, in connection with her speech, yes, I also acknowledge that it is essential for the child's personality development and individual development to go to kindergarten from the age of 3, because there she undergoes socialization processes beyond what she receives from teachers, which is essential in her later life. But let us also acknowledge that the first three years of children's personality development and individual development are also a very important factor that, if possible, they spend at home with their mother. If that doesn't happen, it's gonna be on some level. And let's not talk about giving the parent a chance to decide, because we're not talking about whether the mother has a choice anymore. He is forced to, because there is a standard of living in Hungary today that most mothers cannot afford to stay at home with the child until they are in kindergarten. It's not a free choice, it's a compulsion, it's a sad compulsion. We shouldn't be working to bring the kid extra down even further, although in such cases it may make life easier for a lot of mothers, and it will allow many families to survive so much that they don't have to wait another six months, and the kids can be used in the same way. Rather, we should think about the system of living in Hungary so that no mother can think of it financially. Because we can consider other aspects. I respect the mother's right to want to continue her work from a career, career, or other professional point of view. Let us explore the possibility for a mother to be forced to work financially before the child is three years old. I'm gonna start the big bite, and if I don't get to the bottom of it, I'm gonna ask you again. This is the creation of family support centres and child welfare services. I also said in the previous debate, I agree that we should combine two parallel services, rationalise them, not only from a material or maintenance point of view, but also from a professional point of view, whether we are talking about complex case management or information flows. Only for a change in broad lines that took place in the spring, it has not yet been seen, but we have already said that our fears may be taken in the wrong direction. It seems to me that they have now taken care of family welfare and child welfare centers and services in the wrong direction. Let's start by buying a district centre of 20-25 thousand people, surrounded by various settlements of the district, where, let's say, he has provided child welfare services in the meantime. After the entry into force of the law, this provider loses 20 million forints of its norm, so it starts. The other is that if he wants to operate the service according to the law and the legislation that comes into force at the same time, which is just a draft, then the number of people in a city of this size must be increased by six. Of course, there is the possibility, which is the rafinery of this whole proposal, that it is not necessarily necessary to have a higher education degree in order to be able to work here and to change the conditions associated with qualifications, but it still comes down to a minus if it calculates the pay according to qualifications and the compulsory increase in the number of employees, which is the result of a change in legislation. In addition, the possibility that what was in the hands of the head of the institution to advance the acquisition of a certain degree for a maximum of five years for the employee is excluded, can now only carry out this task with the proper qualifications, especially in our territory, after the entry into force of the law. There's no social career model anywhere. We know very well that it is the social area, the social sphere, that one of the most serious concerns is the issue of emigration in Hungary today. In many cases, young people who leave the country, whether they have a social education or for some reason have not yet been able to obtain it, either because of a lack of a language exam or because of anything, but can't get a job; if we put a shovel on it, it is even more difficult to make it difficult for someone who has not yet had the right degree, something small is missing, then we will make this situation worse. Believe me, there are many times when you have to hire a new associate, because, excuse the expression, who's the idiot who goes to work for that kind of money? ! I have already said this in a lot of debates, and with two degrees, he earns a tenth of what he does when he supplies either a disabled person or an elderly person in Germany or England. We can very well see who remains: fully committed. But unfortunately, more and more of them think that they will give up because under such financial circumstances, they cannot take on this life - style or those who just want to work there temporarily. It happens very often, unfortunately we also have to say that there are people who are perfectly unfit to perform such a task. Let's think about the head of an institution manager, what he can do in this case. How do you resolve this situation? And compared to what the transformation was announced, there was no such major change of structure, and such a large, wide-ranging function as we have been projected, there was no provision and centers for child welfare and family support. In their task, almost nothing has changed, but the whole system has been very transformed. Some cost elements have been transferred to the municipality, which is saving. I don't know what it's gonna mean at national level, but there might be some kind of savings in this, too. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Especially considering... thank you, one sentence and I'll finish it. Especially if we consider that sooner or later they will have to introduce a social career model, then the budget savings that have been reported by manipulation of qualifications will be increased. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-19-100	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, the mayor of the political group.
u2015-11-19-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House of Parliament, The thing is, although I shouldn't say what I'm about to say, I think it would be better for all of us, but the thing is, I'm glad that this issue is finally being dealt with. But there are a lot of measures here that are late and few at the same time. Actually, earlier mistakes are corrected in a lot of places. The thing is, I would have expected a little more from you. I won't go through every point of the bill, just the most important. I will start with the recommendation of my fellow Member, Rózsa Hoffmann, that of young children under the age of 3 in the daytime, by transforming day care, as this is one of the most significant amendments to this proposal. The fact is, this was very neglected in the previous cycle. What I see is that the campaign has been a big deal, the fact is that the situation of the cradle seats has been a constant issue, but I have a feeling that they're campaigning with the seats they haven't even sold yet. Because they promised to create these seats before, they didn't make it. Then, in 2014, we listened to them do it by 2018. I wish you a good job at this. Come on, Fidesz-KDNP, then create these seats, because they are very needed! I am in a lively debate with KDNP, because I think the Barcelona goals are not about meeting some external expectations, but about what many of us are experiencing, about the need for crèches, the need for family day care, but there is no room, because there is no institution. This is a level, this one-third recommendation, which shows a situation close to reality. I do not know, with all due respect to those who have had similar experiences to Mrs Hoffmann, and who have experienced this more than once, but I myself have experienced this situation, and I would like to point out that these spaces are something that is very, very lacking. It is not for communism and socialism to be referred back here when we talk about it, and we have to talk about post-communist aftershocks, but we have to say that today in Hungary parents are constantly cramped every year, how they will enroll their children in their nursery, how they will be enrolled in kindergartens, where they will find a place for their children. What I'd expect from this government is that the cramp that we all have in our parents year after year, it's gonna loosen up. Because the thing is, we are talking about the children here, and if there should be any agreement in this country, it is that the fate of the children and their right circumstances are not a political issue. Wherever we sit in this room, I think we need to look out of the ideological framework in which we usually think, and say, yes, a child needs a place during the day, during the day, or whatever we say, where he gets the care and development he needs at that age. [[15.40]] The thing is, they're talking about demography, so there's one thing you need to see here. You were elected in 2010 in the previous term, we now have 200,000 fewer people than we are, and then we need to add to that the emigration that is going on in this country. This is very important, because there is an indicator here that I think every professional should call a red bell, and that is that 6-8 percent of women of the best parental age are now abroad. I think we need to see it out of the framework in which I often find the government moving in this way. So we are not talking about an opposition action here, when we say that emigration must be stopped and wages are low, but that these women will give birth largely abroad, these children will have little chance of coming back to Hungary, and it is a matter of time before this goose moves to the other side. What still keeps Hungarian women home in many cases is family and friends, but there are more and more complete Hungarian colonies out there. Now I hear this story a lot a lot, "May Other Politics is doing research on this, we are watching this phenomenon, we are talking to these people, and we see that earlier there was this deterrent force, although they knew, especially in single parents, that there was no institution or adequate wage at home; there was both, there was a wage that could support you and your child, and now there are friends and a part of the family. So I would like to remind the government once again that this phenomenon is going, working and getting rougher. I would very much ask you to take this very seriously, because it's a time bomb that we're all sitting on here, and it's a huge loss for the whole country that these people are leaving our country, I might add, out of necessity. This was about - and this was still the way the demographers calculated - that due to the crisis in 2008, we postponed the births, and then, as the country regenerates, the number of births will increase significantly, but this has not happened, we do not have this demographic boom. So I think we need to think together here, whoever's sitting in this horseshoe, so that we can help. That is why I would like to draw the KDNP's attention - because they have a very strong opinion on this - that I think it is not good to tell people how to live, how to raise their children, but to see what families need and try to help them. I agree that alternatives must be provided, there is no sure recipe, a sure recipe, each child is different. That is why I support and constantly stand up for family daycare, because, yes, my esteemed colleague Rózsa Hoffmann here in the Hungarian Parliament, there are children who are much better suited for their development by a family daycare center, and there are also parents who can reach family daycare much easier than a kindergarten or a nursery, which is not even in a given settlement. By the way, I see that there has been a major change in your family policy. In 2010, a completely outdated system was built, and the thought in Fidesz-KDNP was that if we keep women at home, they would give birth more, so to speak, and that's why you restricted working near the child and didn't care about the cradle at all. Now, I'm glad you guys finally broke up with that attitude. What I see now is that at last the issue of crèches and seats is a real problem for you and an area of improvement, and I am also glad that, for example, there is the ged extra, so they have so to say corrected their previous error. But what's happening to family daycare is really bad. I submitted a request for information, and I received shocking results on this, and I requested these data from the Ministry. 85 percent of family daycare centers have mixed ages. The number of family daycare centers between 20 weeks and 14 years of age is 1195 out of 1395. If all of these fall out of support, then there are a total of 183 in the number of csanas that provide only cradle - and what happens to 85 percent of the csanas? My problem with this whole bill is that you're giving up these institutions. What about these kids? We're talking 2,600 kids, they're over 3 years old, and they're in family daycare. Are they gonna be crowded into the already overcrowded kindergartens? I would like to remind honourable Members that kindergartens are already saturated, in many places they are converting medical rooms, development and employment rooms into group rooms, from 25 to raise the number of groups to the legally authorised number of 30s, or they are forced to go beyond that. I don't think this is the time for family daycare to send a death sentence on the part of the government, so to speak, that's very wrong. And I don't quite understand that we had this committee meeting, where there were several of us in this room, and there I learned the thinking of KDNP that they thought it would be possible to be in a nursery in three years, and so on in kindergartens, because they said there was no development going on that would be so important. Fidesz corrected this there, and I think it was important that he did, because crèches are very serious about development, and the professionals there know what they're doing. And after the age of three, our KDNP colleague said that there we have to, I don't know, do everything this rigidly, centrally, because that's what's best for the kids. It's not like that, it's not like that. This is XXI. The point here is that we can give children and families as many choices as possible anyway. The other thing I wanted to talk about is that over the last few years, from EU funds, we know that 6 000 crèches were created, and these were also in the year of the election, then there were a lot of these kind of crèches, but I would like to remind everyone that there was an EU proposal that had been written out, this TÁMOP 2.4.5-12, and the decision went on for years. I would also like to say here in this Chamber that I have repeatedly asked János Lázár about the payment of these development resources. Bence Rétvári finally replied, and he said that 64 of the 136 winners had so far been implemented, and we are talking about the 2012 tender. I think it shows that you can't make your government look like you've been a supporter of family daycare over the last few years, because even EU funds are very moaning if you've given them to these otherwise winning applicants. I think this is part of the overall picture of Fidesz-KDNP's family policy. Now, I hope you don't think it's an ultraliberal opposition attack, but I have the KSH data in my hand. In 2014, 16.8% of children under the age of 3 were insured with day care, and in a situation like this, when it is known that women can go back to work if their children are cared for by someone, you practically didn't help them, didn't care about crèches during the last cycle, and I think family daycare workers have been treated stepwise. I would like to clarify something here: in press communication, you claimed that you raised the normative of the Chana; I looked into it and it last rose five years ago, during the socialists' time. So, so much for the developments in this area in recent years. The other area I'd like to talk about is wages. I think that those who take children seriously should also take seriously those who deal with children. The people working in the nursery make undeservingly little money, and a measure that leaves 90 percent of the workers out of it does not help. I ask you not only to take measures that will give everyone the wage increase they are constantly going to stand for, but I also ask you to give the same wage increase to technical, auxiliary workers, food managers, cooks, economic administrators. You know, in the daycare center, people work in a collective, you can't pick by who has a degree and who doesn't. Honourable Secretary of State, this is not about a graduate being highly respected and doing the same job that he has and doesn't have a degree. It has been possible to get a degree since 2009, it is a completely unfair discrimination. I've heard your radio statements, and I deeply disagree with them. If two people do the same job in a nursery, they get the same wage, and let's not forget the people who work under their hands. I think that is the minimum requirement for daycare workers in today's world; be kind and think about this. About the baby's meal. I'm very disappointed. I said my opinion about the national minimum, and unfortunately you weren't here, so I'll tell you briefly and once again. This is a measure that you have placed on the table, which affects only a part of the children, and the week is not two days. So that spring and autumn and winter break the municipality can choose two days, and then they give the needy child to eat, and that's enough in accordance with the spirit of the law, that's not enough. [[15.50]] Forints 4.5 billion have been assigned for this purpose. It seems to me that only 200,000 of these children will be fed out of the 550 thousand affected, and I think the minimum requirements should be abolished. During the entire holiday period, a child who is starving and in need must receive every day the food needed for his or her development. I'll put in an amendment on that. I am very sorry that you did not support the National Minimum Programme. I see such a solution acceptable to XXI. In Hungary of the century, which gives children in need 365 days of the year, whether it is a weekend or a weekday, there is a break or a school, kindergarten or nursery period, it provides the necessary food. Here, too, with regard to the summer meal, what I said here earlier was that what had been spoilt was corrected, but I'm really glad that it was corrected. I followed the movements in the previous cycle. We saw that one fifth of those in need received a summer social meal. It is indeed a solution to make this mandatory normative for municipalities, but then the money must be given to them so that they can do it. You have tightened one up, it wasn't a well-thought-out movement when you said that the raw materials, I don't know, have to get 30 percent from small producers and made other restrictions. The municipalities were unable to do so, and the number of children attending the meal decreased. It is important to see the person who deals with this topic, he knows that the municipalities have been unable to apply for it many times, so they were unable to make an effective start on that proposal because they knew that they could not do it, for example because they did not have a heating kitchen. So I think it's a good thing that this is going to be a mandatory project, but it's very important that you have to give money to expect it, so be kind to take care of it. Thank you for listening. I very much hope that my amending proposal will be adopted, that more constructive opinions from here, from the Parliament's horseshoe, may have been of a good heart, and that they will be able to welcome me back in the government's proposals as well.
u2015-11-19-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have a two-minute speech. There is one candidate, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-11-19-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to clarify one question in these two minutes. I think it's a relatively simple story. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann has also mentioned it, and a reference has already been made in several speeches today. I see a contradiction here with regard to holiday meals, and I am sure that you can help to resolve this, Madam Secretary of State, Mr Secretary of State. Actually, I'm asking about that 4.5 billion forint. Károly Czibere, State Secretary, said at the time that it was HUF 4.5 billion - not only that he said it, but that it is so - which is included in the budget adopted this summer. In comparison, Congressman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély also quoted that in September there was an answer to a request in respect of which it was formulated that the appointment of this thing as a mandatory municipal task, namely a holiday meal, for which resources must be created. So, in fact, I feel like they're talking about the second time, in September, that we don't have these resources, so the separate HUF 4.5 billion doesn't cover it, because these two statements are not synchronized with each other. Or you can put the story into place to 4.5, and then this source is covered. In fact, I am interested in the part that if we set the issue of holiday catering as a mandatory task for the municipalities, then hopefully they do not wish to go a fraudulent way that would, in any sense, be a burden on the municipalities. 'Cause I've seen this happen in the last few years, the government's been talking about helping and passing it on to the local authorities to supplement mayor's remuneration, to help carriers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Or a lot of other things. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-104	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance, first I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, representative Fidesz.
u2015-11-19-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to respond to what has been said in a previous socialist speaker before I make my point. I will not quote it literally, but Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said that he has heard such comments from the secretary of state so far at the beginning of the debate and from the lead speaker of Fidesz, as if this reflected that we in this House think that everything is very beautiful, everything is perfect, everything is fine, the sun is shining, so we can pack and go home. I hope that I have correctly quoted the congresswoman in substance. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély nods.]] After that, he said that, of course, he used these few ideas in a cynical sense. But then I was wondering if that was a cynical remark, because then we saw that the congresswoman, and indeed for a long time the entire Socialist faction, had taken her place, stood up and left the Chamber during the debate. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz, there was no one in there! Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, including Anita Heringes: We have been here since the morning, unlike any other! Nándor Gúr: Be correct! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Therefore, I am pleased to see that the three of you have already returned to the next stage of the debate and are taking a substantial part... [[Anita Beringes: Congresswoman attends the meeting! Nándor Gúr: Welcome to Parliament Mónika Dunai!]] Well, fellow Members, [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Unlike you, we think that we should be here in this debate, and we don't think that everything is perfect. If we thought that everything was perfect, that we had all the legislation and that our predecessors had made it, then why would we be sitting here today? Then, with the coordinated work of two State Secretariats, we would not have a bill aimed at further improving the family support system. And we wouldn't be here to discuss this, to argue, to conflict interests and values, and to vote at the end. I think it is our job, yes, to discuss these legislative proposals that are being tabled, to formulate our opinion, because they have done so. You can count anyone, on any government, on the Fidesz-KDNP government, on a regular basis, you ask that you do not expand cradle seats. Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal states that we want to significantly expand and make nursery care more flexible. You vomit to our eyes that we do not care about eating children; we do not provide for children's meals during holidays. This proposal contains this. It is about the fact that during summer holidays, autumn, winter and spring holidays, we want to ensure that children are provided both in daycare and in kindergartens and schools. I think that if someone not only wants to talk about their own goals and not just throwing them in the eye about what they do or do not do, then they must be involved in this debate now and in the end they must vote in a clear yes. I think that the person who will vote 'yes' at the end of this debate in the final vote will then become a discredited politician on this issue. It cannot be said that we want this and that, but we will not vote for it. So I will also look forward to the vote of my fellow socialists in the final vote on whether they support the expansion of crèches; whether they support a very significant wage increase for small children in daycare and can join the pedagogical career model, including those who already have a higher education degree; and say yes to providing food for children in need during summer, autumn, winter and spring break. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély also mentioned in the speech of the lead speaker... - where he wasn't present, and I didn't even sign the minutes, so there is no record that all the civil society organisations there have complained and attacked - using similar terms - on the day care of children [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I did not say that, Congresswoman! You should've paid attention.]] Deputy State Secretary's Report. [[16.00]] I would like to inform the public of the fact that each civil society organisation appreciated, appreciated, even supported and welcomed the proposal on the flexibility and expansion possibilities of crèches. It is also a fact that, of course, amendments have been made to it from a professional point of view, and they have expressed their views. We thanked both the Deputy State Secretary and myself for these opinions. I think that this is the way to argue intelligently, so that it is possible to move forward that if someone puts something on the table, then, of course, with professional suggestions, it can be improved. Ladies and gentlemen, After this brief introduction, allow me to address some of the things that we have even less emphasised in today's debate. It is very important - and I think everyone, all my fellow Members, but also the public of the country - that in every case, in the Fidesz and KDNP fractions, we are examining in every law the impact of individual laws on families and children in the family. This applies not only to the laws relating to family, education and education, but also to other laws. Mr Gabriella Selmeczi has already presented these in detail in his speech, but let me mention one or two here for the sake of emphasis. When the family tax relief is introduced, it is an economic issue, but it is clear that it is one of the greatest achievements of the Fidesz-KDNP government in terms of how we can take on social responsibility and provide a helping hand to families. The further reduction of personal income tax from next year to Parliament's decision has been reduced from 32 percent to 16 percent, and next year we will reduce it to 15 percent, again to help all working people, including families. The introduction of free textbooks in the ascending system, the extension of children's meals in nursery schools and kindergartens, we know that 90 percent of them can eat for free, but the restoration of the 3-year old child or the introduction of the ged extra is all intended to ensure that the legislation on the safety of families and the lives of families is made coherently to help families. Some of the measures of the bill. The ged extra introduced in 2014 in which - it was already mentioned today - the parent can go to work today from the age of one year in the case of an enlarged ged supplement if his family situation and family decision so require. We want to help you do that. However, I agree with Rózsa Hoffmann that we do not want to encourage families to go to work as soon as possible, but we think that help should be given to families in order that if they think they will return to work before the child is three years old, they can do so on the basis of their free choice. This measure will be extended within the framework of this bill and in the event of its adoption, with this option available from the age of six months. In other words, after 1 January, parents can choose to return to work sooner if they wish, and the second very important element here is that they do not lose the amount of the lawn at the same time. Madam Secretary of State also mentioned that if children are born soon after each other, there may be three children under the age of three in one family, but the two are quite common, well, they can get the double lawn or the triple lawn, and if they are located next to it, they will also get the wages. This could be seen as a very significant amendment and proposal. Another, which may not have been discussed today, happens that after the expiry of the family, we do not need to claim again under the proposal and put the parents in a lengthy bureaucratic maze, but will be able to pay the amount of the child automatically after the expiry of the family. This can actually be integrated into the process that Fidesz-KDNP is doing here today in the context of bureaucracy reduction. We also think that we can spare parents from administrative burdens, annoyance, and long queues. There has been a lot of talk about the day care of children today, and I would just like to point out very briefly that the proposal is welcome and very good as a whole, and the fact that the whole kindergarten care can become more flexible in this way can be changed much more quickly, and that it wants to help the settlements - primarily the small settlements of Hungary - where there is absolutely no kindergarten, so children cannot go to a nursery, parents cannot enroll the children, because there is no kindergarten. We believe that this system will be of great help to them. About having a baby, very briefly. The fact that we allow for summer, autumn, winter and spring holidays, school holidays, both on the side of nursery, kindergarten and school, and even mandatory for the most needy children, for disadvantaged children, to provide free meals, again a proposal with which we can take another big step to ensure that as few children as possible and as few families as possible are at risk of poverty in Hungary. Once again, I stress that we do not think that everything is perfect, but our goal is to reach the lowest possible number of starving children, possibly zero. We really voted for 71 billion HUF 740 million, this was said in the debate, in the next year's budget for children's meals. This is indeed more than double what was set in 2010 in the previous socialist-liberal budget. The following topic, which I will briefly mention, is the extension of the pedagogical career to children's educators in kindergartens. It is a very forward-looking and significant act that, in the context of the bill, small children who have a higher education degree will be able to receive a significant wage increase, but I think it is not only material appreciation that is the essence of the proposal, but also moral and professional recognition. Indeed, in the context of wage increases, the wages of young children with a higher education degree can increase by 30-40 percent, but we acknowledge the activity of the profession that they are raising children, so they are basically doing educational work, i.e. pedagogical work. At the same time, with this increase in wages, we want to encourage as many young children as possible to complete higher education. [[16.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, As a final sentence, all I ask is that everyone in the debate and at the end of the debate vote be able to vote in the final vote of the Parliament, after which he can calmly say that he has done everything in his power to ensure that children [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They can also eat on holiday, and the nursery can expand. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. According to the order of applications, the next speaker is Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-11-19-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman, I'm somewhat disappointed. I was disappointed because I was looking for you yesterday, the day before yesterday, I didn't see you. But it's okay, well, damn it, he's got other things to do; I'm just trying to tell you that I'm gonna make a review of anyone who's, like, going through all four days of the week here, I don't think that's right. I was disappointed, and I thought that you could provide a realistic picture of the conduct of Parliament's work, and obviously you are also aware that everyone certainly has minimum needs. But I'm not going any deeper, so I guess you'll be back on the track where you can have a normal conversation with each other. But I do not wish to deal with you and not with what you have said, but with great respect to the Secretary of State, Mrs Secretary of State, I would like to ask you, not at the end of the debate, to tell you what your relationship is with that HUF 4.5 billion item, but, in the meantime, if you were to press a button, I would like to thank you very much, because it would help us very much to see a clear picture of the financing of the holiday meal here. Gabriella Selmeczi dealt with a lot of things in her comments, but she had a very important sentence that I thought sounded like the most important one was the child. Madam Congresswoman, we agree on this, there is no difference in view between us in this regard. In this respect, it is now possible to see how and how these appear at the level of action. I don't want to correct what you said, but, you know, when you talk about the tax system and you say 15 percent, you should know that until 31 December, there's still 16 percent, and then there's 15 percent. But that is not the point, but that, unfortunately, this tax system has brought to life the fact that people with lower incomes have less money. You don't have to, do you, two hundred times, every time, tell us how you can raise the minimum wage to the starry sky, if the burden of that is increasing, and not the part that comes into the hands of people, and in purchasing power it represents nothing more than five years, six years ago, but less. You know, Congresswoman, we need to pursue a tax policy for which far-reaching majority of people have access to more valuable money. At a time when the National Tax and Customs Office is unable to produce any other statement based on tax returns than that... [[Márius Révész: Have you read the law?]] Calm down. So he cannot take any other position but what is about whether more than one third person in this country today earns a minimum wage or less, then there is a problem. So, this tax policy is not a good tax policy. My fellow Member, Márius Révész, asked if I had read this law. Yeah. I'd like to say yes, I've read it, and I've read it more than once. For this very reason, I will have a few more questions that I would like to have answered from the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State, because even if I turned to my fellow Member, Mr Révész, I would most likely not be able to answer. You're going to say anything in your next speech, I think, in advance, because I've experienced a few times that you can't really learn from it. So, the tax incentives, since you are already a Member of the tax system, have also mentioned that, in terms of tax incentives, contributions have been extended. Right. This is, in a sense, a relief per moment, but there are losses in terms of contributions. These losses are missing from somewhere else, either with regard to the health care system or with regard to pension benefits. So there are always related items that are not installed somewhere derived from the creation of additional resources. She also spoke about the importance of reducing the cost of the money on this agenda. "Yes, it helps," he says to the poor people. Madam Congresswoman, I would like to say that you know that the reduction in overhead costs is not there, in my experience, precisely not helping these people. You said, if I remember correctly, that the government will use all means to help families who have children to live, including through tax and overhead cuts. Now I will try to translate this into Hungarian, so that it is understandable. You say that starving children should eat breakfast, have lunch and have dinner with a reduction in the cost. I can't do this. I can't do this. A simple sentence is a significant link between both, and the two sentences. It's not stupid, it's significant. You know what the word is, yes? So we're talking about things that belong together. I have to say that a person who approaches the issue of a starving child in such a way that he tries to connect it with a reduction in the cost of the money, because he has mastered this use of the word, makes a very big mistake. Plus, if you're gonna cut the rent, you're obviously aware that mostly families with poorer fates still have water, just-just, still electricity, just-just, but less gas. So that's not where the benefit of the reduction of the rent lands, Congresswoman. He said one more important thing about this bill, the way in which women's employment, perhaps he said it was at its peak, the peaks of female employment. Look, Congresswoman, in this sense, I think the truth has several approaches. It is a fact that if you look at the data sets of the KSH, let's say on the basis of the worst period of our governance, based on the period of the global financial economic crisis, the 2008 and closed year, the employment figures of the 2014 ladies, show an extra figure today of about 120 to 125 thousand people. I would just like to help you with the background information so that you can think about how this quasi surplus of 125,000 - as if it were a surplus - will come together next time. On the one hand, if I compare those two years, 2008 and 2014, there are about 170,000 more public employees in the system, the majority of which was made up of ladies, i.e. around 100,000 persons. And, you know, even in terms of working abroad, there are about 20,000 in that 110,000 plus, who are registered as an extra from the ladies and in Hungarian statistics, and in student work, which was not included in the employment circle by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office before 2010, and now it's taken, and there's about 40,000, and you know, the government that makes 4 hours of work from 8 hours, who called for the family's incomes to be reduced, about 35-40 thousand out of the increase of 50 to 55 thousand people. If I add these four numbers together, and I say nothing else, we find that some 200,000 people are counted in statistics that are not paired with 1 million new taxpayers' jobs as you promised, and not with work in Hungary. Well, that's the other side of the truth, and that's the way to talk about it, and that's how it's going to be, and that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be, and that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be. But not to go the other way, now back to the bill. Look, the possibility of access to different forms of supply, the possibility of equal access, is very simply not available in Hungary today. [[16.20]] In 2014, 2592 were settlements where children under the age of 3 - 65 338 were affected - had no access to the nursery or family day care. No, no equal access! Yeah, it wasn't, maybe I can tell you, in the past years, but no, don't tell me there is. No. No! We need to push the system in that direction and help it to develop as much as possible. What I would like to ask you is very simply, Madam Secretary of State, Mr Secretary of State, what kind of budget support will be given to the new forms of intraday care, because I cannot read it from the draft law or from the budget. I need you to help me clear this image of the personal, material conditions. Today, I feel insecure about the possibility of accessing information in this regard. Regarding the draft law, Márius Révész, the 10th draft law. Article 12 (2) (a) and (b) I'm sure you know if you don't, I'll help you get close to him: here the story relates to the meal of the child. Article 10 § 2 says that at the request of the parent, the 12th and says that a child's meal must be provided unless otherwise provided by the parent. Do you understand? One at his request, the other at the same time, unless the parent decides otherwise. You do not feel that there is some dissonance in this bill, let us say, with regard to the feeding of children, if one paragraph approaches the story in this way and the other paragraph in another way, in the opposite way. So what I'm trying to say is that when, I'm going to give you an example, you're going to talk about what you're going to do, and you're going to tell yourself or anyone else what you're going to have to do by 2019 in relation to settlements under 10,000 people, I'd like to tell you what's behind this one sentence. You know, today there are roughly 3,200 settlements in Hungary, then 96 percent of the settlements belong to the circle that is less than 10 thousand settlements. Yeah, they don't talk about this anymore, that in fact, for all settlements, 96 percent of existing settlements are defined by lots and lots that will have to be completed in 2019, and this represents 96 percent of all settlements. So they're fooling people again. They seem to be saying that they are doing something, and in fact they do not have to enforce them in 96 percent of the settlements, because these settlements are in this number within the whole. They're talking about child welfare, and in the meantime, I have to say, they're not raising it, no matter what the family allowance I'm talking about, whether I'm talking about the lawn or not, whether I'm talking about the renamed kid, I don't care if I'm talking about the maternity allowance, and I can tell you a lot more, these items are not being raised. How, then, do they help to develop child welfare? And it is regrettable to me, too, that what I have already said is that family daycare will be abolished for children under the age of 3. And with regard to the feeding of children, I can confirm that this does not cover all children in need. There's work to be done. You know, when the Warehouse itself brings statements that are very solid and consolidated, 50,000 to 50,000! - the number of children who are starving has reached the stage of real hunger, so, let alone eating regularly, they are starving, then there is a very big problem in the country. And then even bigger, if politicians, let's say, make revelations like Péter Harrach, that because it's some kind of left-wing campaign goal, we don't support or say other politicians. I'll give it to Márius Révész, because he will now tell me that the children are starving in Switzerland, he may know more about this than I do, that he can explain this, but I think that the majority of families and children in Switzerland may live a little far from the standard of living, as unfortunately in Hungary. Overall, my last sentence is that, you know, those who deal with children have the right to expect, not just - not just - in terms of wages! - some of them, but everyone in the nursery, for example, should also have access to the wage developments from which they have been excluded during this period. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-108	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere.
u2015-11-19-109	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Obviously, a number of questions have been raised in the debate, and I will answer them in detail in the closing section, but there has been a suggestion in respect of 4.5 billion which he has asked me to respond to sooner. Of course, the calculation of HUF 4.5 billion was made during the period of planning of the budget law, as, as you can see from the government's work, we are in the work of the continuous extension, development and expansion of children's meals. The result of this is the September enlargement, where there was a significant enlargement for children in kindergarten and kindergarten, three-and-a-half times. Here, I would like to point out to the Member's question that the 90 percent figure is that 356 thousand people now go to kindergarten and nursery, and the 318 thousand number is about 90 percent. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: So not for all the children, but for those who go there.]] Of course, this job didn't stop. When we started planning this, in parallel with the summer meal, I mentioned in several press statements that we were actively working to eliminate, on the one hand, what the congresswoman mentioned, the problems of the summer meal, so it was relaxation, fullness, improvement of access opportunities, and indeed it was successful, because 1486 municipalities were able to apply this year, 142 thousand children were able to participate in this opportunity, and really during the period of the program - this 13-year programme - this was the largest number ever. I therefore believe that we have indeed achieved a significant success in this area this summer. Nevertheless, in parallel, it was under preparation that, not only during the summer holiday, but every holiday, children's meals would be possible, and not only that, but we would also like to guarantee that once a day's hot food would actually be available during the holiday period, and in all four holidays, disadvantaged children. That's why it became a municipal duty. So during this period - this is the April-May period of planning - we prepared these, so the HUF 4.5 billion is not a comment or a number from a sudden blow to the abdomen, but a very consciously thought-out conceptual proposal was the result of an analysis of the impact assessment or the financing of the collateral, because the government, as Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann said, always plans measures to which the source is assigned. Here, when it comes to a mandatory municipal task, and it is in the interest that the poorest, most income-free, municipality cannot complain that due to lack of resources it was not possible to ensure this during the winter break or during the fall break or during one of the holidays, and here it was particularly important that the financial guarantees of this be incorporated, therefore. The other question is that in September-October there were continuous consultations with civil and municipal associations, that it really doesn't matter how the logistics of this, the concrete form of its implementation takes place, where there is a kitchen, where there is a kitchen, where there is no cooking kitchen, where there is a dining room, where there is no dining room, where there is no dining room, so the autumn ended with the need to carry out these consultations, but this didn't essentially affect the conceptual framework, the determined social policy intentions and principle, and the 100% funding of the available resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for two minutes. [[16.30]]
u2015-11-19-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary, thank you very much for helping me, trying to help me with this issue, that is to say, the financing part. It was one thing that I hope I didn't understand and now I'd be asking questions, but probably didn't explain it. I'd like to hear a comforting sentence from you in the summary - you don't have to answer separately, and then in the summary. The soothing sentence should be - it could be with other words, in substance - that because it is a mandatory task, it does not require a penny's of the resources passed on by the municipality, so to speak, but because it is a mandatory task, it is therefore legally financed by the State to the extent necessary for the municipalities to carry out the task. [[Charles Czibere: That's right.]] Thank you so much, it calms me down, because it's important. It's just, you know, I raised it, and I wanted a confirmation - that it is true, yes - to say this, because I see a multitude of examples of the government helping at the level of words, he says - I'll explain very briefly - that we are raising the mayor's remuneration by 30 percent, especially the mayors of small towns, because they took away part of the allowances, salaries, and then in his next sentence he says that, at the expense of municipal revenues, the revenues of the municipalities who are drowning cannot even create resources to carry out the tasks. If in this particular thing we talked about, but it's a mandatory task, and the first pennies to the last, then that's okay with me and thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind for two minutes.
u2015-11-19-113	Thank you for the opportunity. I would like to ask you, however I look at the law, from the front, from the back, from the side, every way there is the minimum two days in it, and I would like to see this very clearly, because this is now, and thank you very much for putting on your microphone, Mr. Secretary, because it is really important to clarify that it is now the two-day week or it has to be interpreted in a different way. A lot of us have interpreted it that way, so maybe we should change it to the law, because that is, as it is written, what it means, or what it means. The other is that, in my understanding, there will be a situation here that if the per capita income in a family is below HUF 37,000, in this case the child will receive the meal for free only if it is disadvantaged or cumulatively disadvantaged. In my understanding, it affects 200,000 children out of the 550 thousand children, so less than half of those in need. Is that how it should be interpreted, or is there a different interpretation here? I'm looking forward to your answer.
u2015-11-19-114	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere.
u2015-11-19-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'll answer both questions. One applies to children of 2h and 3h. It was crucial that, if research shows that tens of thousands of children are affected here, there is a need to provide free meals for a much wider circle, which is what this concept of a holiday meal is all about. At the same time, what is in the Fundamental Law is important, and several people here have pointed out that on one side there is a parental responsibility, there is a parental obligation, so it is important to see this also, that the parent - the Fundamental Law 16. § 7 and 62 of the Social Act - it is his duty to provide for the child, and there is another important system. Article 7 which states that if a person is deprived of basic property because of his or her age, he or she will be named here under Article 7. § also -, regardless of the authority and authority of the municipality, must provide a minimum of protection, and here the food is listed in Article 7. It's in section 62 and it's open. So in Hungarian, this subject, that everyone must be guaranteed fundamental rights, has a general social protection guarantee in the social law, and compared to that, is based on the system of institutional and holiday children's meals. So we think that with the 208 thousand children who currently qualify as disadvantaged and cumulative underprivileged in relation to 2h and 3h, we can achieve this social policy goal that next year there will be no starving child in the holidays. This is an extremely important objective and, moreover, as has been said here, a mandatory task. Let me say once again to Mr Gúr, which I have called for, that the municipalities will not need a penny of support to do so. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The other question was two days, which was raised by several people, and I wanted to come back to it in the closing word. Of course, the break is longer than two days, so there is no question that if the winter break is, say, ten days, then it should only be provided for two days. The two days are not about that, the two days are a protection guarantee in the law. The basic design is that the parent requests it, and as long as he requests it, it is mandatory to give it. Why are the two days in it? The two days are because there are - not many, but there are - municipalities who say that they did not ask for it, I do not organize it. If it doesn't include the two days, if it doesn't have a minimum supply and organisation obligation, if it doesn't have a minimum guarantee that there is a framework for this service everywhere, then you can say - we have seen such services, social services and other benefits - when the municipality says that I don't provide it, because there is no applicant, there is no recipient, there is no one to apply for it. It takes two days for all municipalities to think and take care of it, because there is no such thing as no child or disadvantaged child in the settlement. So it's important for everyone to think about how they can organize this for the holidays, and don't forget that they're not here, there's no disadvantaged children, because nobody asked for them. So this is basically what the two days are about to do for all municipalities, but the meal is done for as many days as the parent requests. This is how the original goal is achieved, that the child gets warm food every day, and that was the original expectation. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Again, I welcome my fellow Members. A speech will be made by Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-19-117	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I am pleased that this debate is much more constructive and normal with regard to the amendment of social, child protection and family support laws, such as debates, let's say, a week and a half ago, we also continued on a similar subject. I also thank you for the contributions that my fellow opposition Members and fellow members of the Government have made, as we can see that we are thinking in the same direction. Obviously, it is a completely natural thing in Parliament that the government cannot move so far that the opposition cannot say that it cannot be pushed by another 20 inches, 40 inches or more, even a meter. However, it is clear that there has been very little criticism of the bill in particular, rather than criticisms that it might be possible to go faster; especially those who have read the law, but we will come back to that. We have a fellow Member who enthusiastically spoke to many of the laws yesterday without even reading a line of them, and that is the case now. Let's move on to the first major area, and here I would like to respond to some comments from Mr Bernadett Wind. I think, as many others do, that Hungary's biggest problem is the demographic situation, and everyone already knows slowly, here we have said so in Parliament, and more and more news reports say that 1.3 is the fertility rate. Of course, if we consider emigrating parents, they may be a little bit bigger now, but this - I should say - does not have to be happy, and it must be changed. I was the leader of the task force that put a lot of change proposals on the table, of which we accepted more in the previous legislative amendment. I must say that I must agree with Bernadet Wind, who drew attention to this, and this is true, that international examples show that there is greater fertility in Europe and in developed democracies, where mothers can coordinate work and childbearing, where there is no tension between child bearing and work. The fact is that what really happened was that our government first restored the child taken by the socialists in 2010 - that is, it was possible to stay home with the children for three years - but then we moved on in this area. [[16.40]] In this case, if the mother stays home with her child, she will not lose her income. It was a rather significant change of mind when, within the party, in many places within the family, the mother had to struggle with the fact that if the mother goes back to work, the gyed should be due to her even if she has a job and, in fact, we will make up for the loss of income once more. But since we have seen this situation in Hungary, that very few children are born, the employment of mothers and women is very low, and in general Hungarian employment is extremely low, so in a country with a similar number of people, it is enough to think about, say, Portugal, the Czech Republic, that is why the government decided that if a mother returned to the labour market before the child was 2 years old, she would still be entitled to the child. The effects are visible, by the way. The fact is that it is indeed as the Secretary of State said that women's employment in Hungary has been at the peak since the beginning of the 1990s, and according to statistics, the employment of mothers with small children has improved enormously. In addition to the extra, this includes the consequences of the job protection operation. Here in Parliament, we had a great debate on whether it was right to amend the Code of Work as amended. In extremely many ways, we tried to protect the situation of mothers in the labour market, which, by the way, resulted in the fact that entrepreneurs, especially small businesses, did not hire young mothers or young women at all, because they were afraid of having children. However, by providing a non-contributory period and a half-payment period for mothers returning from the child, their situation has improved considerably. I am very proud to have been a part of the job protection action in the case of mothers returning to the labour market after three or more children for another year, so for five years, large-family mothers who return to the labour market can work without a contribution or with half a contribution. Indeed, even when the previous law was passed, there was a debate so that one year or six months of age could go back from the ged without leaving the ged. Then it was decided to be a one-year-old. I think this increases the possibility of families. There may be a situation in life, and many families may find that, for some reason or reason, the mother wants to go back to work sooner, so I definitely consider this to be a positive element of the bill. I've broken a spear before, so I'm glad we got here, but it took some time for society to digest it. There's been a major paradigm shift in this area. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi:]] I still have some time. The changes to the conditions for family support are as follows. There was a big debate in the area of children's meals. The truth is, we are also thinking in the same direction in this area. I must say that our opposition fellow Members, in particular the women in this House, were keen to do something about holidays. It was very requested by Timea Szabó, Bernadett Szél, and this also met with our ideas, so that the municipalities would not be obliged to apply. It is very gratifying that this is formulated here, in this law, so not only will there be free children's meals in the municipalities who have submitted such a tender, but also free children's meals in those municipalities where there is a child in need, there will be free children's meals, which is definitely a positive and significant step forward. While we were indicated as opponents of the support of children's meals, let me note that if you look at the summer break, never as many children as this summer, otherwise you have not eaten for free in Hungary, so not once since 1990. But the truth is that we will go further on this path, and this law will come into force from 1 January 2016, so it will be true not only for the summer break, but also for the rest of the holidays, so we will definitely make progress. In connection with the meal, it was suggested that there was a contradiction within the law. I'm just saying to Nándor Gúr: if you read the law and had the ability to understand words, a little more than you have now, then you could interpret what is in 10. §12 and what is the 12th? Paragraph 5. I'd love to tell you. So the 10th. § 2 states that at the request of parents, children's meals must be provided. Article 12 and describes how many times you normally have to feed him, what a big meal is, what a snack is, and unless otherwise provided, that's what the child should be provided with. But the parent can, for example, provide for me to say thank you very much, I don't ask my child for what is due, I just want to ask for lunch, and I don't want lunch or breakfast. That's what it's all about. So I'm gonna say it again, the 10th. §, if the parent so requests, three or four meals shall be provided as described; § 2 is that if the parent does not provide otherwise, this must be ensured, but if he does otherwise and says that less is enough, then less must be provided for him. Day care for young children is a very important issue. Several of my opposition fellow Members have rightly indicated that there is a problem with cradle seats. I would say to Bernadett Szél that in 2005 there were 27 thousand cradle seats in Hungary, in 2010 this increased to 33 thousand, so the MSZP-SZDSZ government also worked well in this respect, so there was a significant increase in the number of cradle seats, and by 2015 the number of seats became about 40 thousand. So I'm just saying that the idea that nothing happened here is a little unfair. If you say my opposition fellow Member should have taken little or more steps, you can say that we have created 6.5 thousand new cradle seats. The fact is that this amendment is going in the direction that our opposition fellow Members are also calling on us, namely to make greater and more significant progress in the day care of young children, because this is again the basic goal of making mothers compatible with having children and working in that direction. Family day care. Indeed, there has already been such a debate here on family daycare, that during the period of kindergarten care, which we have made compulsory, it is possible to fulfil the obligation of kindergarten in family day care. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made the rule that, where there is a kindergarten teacher's degree in family daycare, we have allowed this for a transitional period, but we are now practically saying that family daycareers only care about the child until the age of three, of course, in an outgoing system, so that there is no too much disruption. But I would also say to my fellow Members that, if you think about it, the biggest problem is that the cradle is in the age group. So I do not find it problematic at all that if we redirect the seats of the family day care centers, we will shift them to the age group of day care, because that is the goal that opposition representatives are also calling on us. So if all of the current family daycare sessions are just going to deal with children in the future, this will certainly bring us to the point where we can create the most new capacity where there is the biggest problem. I feel it is very important to extend the pedagogical career model to those in nursery schools with a higher education. At the same time, I would like to say here what I have said before, that it cannot be avoided that the wages of those working in the social sector should also be settled soon enough, because it is indeed not only about the very low wages of people working in crèches, but also of many other people working in the social sector. So I very much trust and even encourage the government to take swift and big steps in this area as well. [[16.50]] There were a few other things that I would have reacted to. We were talking about having a delayed baby. Quite a lot of people wanted to push the baby out, and the thing is, the economic crisis - and it's pretty clear on the chart of births - has really broken this trend. But here it is not just the economic crisis that needs to be discussed, but also to think that the foreign currency loans that were taken up by families before 2008 were a burden on families just before or during childbearing, which caused a lot of people to postpone or fail to achieve their planned childbearing. There's a lot more to say. For example, whether the reduction of the rent will help the poorer families is not. You can see that the number and proportion of families with backlogs have decreased incredibly significantly over the past two years. Obviously, if a family doesn't have to pay something for rent, it can use that money elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me that this law is extremely forward-looking, dealing with a lot of problems that we all see. I am proud that the previous family support law, with a few exceptions, has been adopted practically by the entire Parliament. I think that the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State have put a positive, forward-looking package of laws on the table, which I think can be voted for by all good Members. There's not a step backwards in any place, you can say that we go all the way. Of course, it is possible to make proposals that could be made more, but I trust that this package of laws will also have great support in Parliament. I think that by adopting this package of laws we will significantly help families, significantly help children, families with children. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker will be Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2015-11-19-119	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying my contribution - not to Márius Révész, but to the representatives of the government - I will propose to my group to support this bill, regardless of where there are points in it that we might argue with, or where we would like to take even greater steps forward. I would like to move this forward because this debate can be continued by kicking opposition representatives in personal style or by other Fidesz MEPs in every comment by Révész Máriusz... [[Márius Révész: What did I tell you?]] Well, we took it upon ourselves to say that we didn't read the law, and then we spoke to him. Because the Fidesz people aren't here, so they couldn't be covered by this comment, the right-wingers and the MSZPs are usually here, so either they or we don't read the law. So I thought of this comment on an exclusionary basis. But I think it is unworthy of this subject, Congressman. Finally, a discussion or a discussion - in many cases it may not have to be considered a debate - is outlined, where everyone is looking for a way to make a little better what might be a step in the right direction. I did not hear any comments, I do not know of any comments which were not intended to be made on this subject, with due care being taken, leaving party policy behind. Of course, we take note of the lecture, but I would refrain a little from doing so, and I would not comment separately on this type of comment. My question is more specific, and I am asking these questions with the intention of understanding and improving. What I have focused on in this draft law - because I don't understand the social issue, but I have said it many times during the campaign too - is that hunger for children is a major problem. I did not mean that this was a big problem in the past four years, but with the intention that the problems that have arisen in the last 25 years should be resolved somehow. And there was indeed a party political debate during the campaign and ever since on what priorities to put before us, so what is more important is to spend a thousand billion forints on buying energy companies - just to avoid reading the other laws - either where appropriate, the cradle seats must be 28-29 billion, or instead, say, 100 billion, or perhaps 200 billion for football stadiums or children's hunger. Of course, this comparison can be very demagogic, however, there was indeed a difference between the opposition and the government in the priority. What I didn't understand exactly about the need to eliminate child hunger is that the law spells out what you were talking about, whether there is an obligation to inform the municipality or the school. I fear that if this happens by accident or not in a way that is understandable by everyone, parents should not miss out on the fact that they have to ask or do not ask for food for their children during the holidays, in Hungarian, at enrollment, to tell the parent that they are asking for it during all four breaks, or who makes sure that the parent receives information about it. I don't want anyone to misunderstand, but in disadvantaged families where this is the most pressing issue, I'm not sure that the parent - I say it again - doesn't want to prejudicate - is necessarily doing the correspondence with the school with due care. What is the logistical solution to ensure that those most in need do not miss out on the good intentions, the good initiative that the draft law may have drawn up. So the first and most important is the obligation to provide information, and can this be linked to a single declaration that makes this kind of information exchange and provision easier and a little more organised for parents. My second comment concerns logistics conditions. Bernadett Wind and others have dealt with this, but I do not ask the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State in this sense that the two days are now, where, but let's say that there are two days, how it can be logistically resolved, how it is logistically resolved, how many children are solved in terms of human resources, because it doesn't matter whether there are fifty ports or three, and if necessary three different days. I don't know if you understand what I'm trying to say intricately. In Hungarian, if one parent asks for it by Monday, the other Thursday, and the third by Wednesday, and there are three totals, then it is certainly logistically and from the budgetary point of view it does not matter to the municipalities. Not to mention we need a human resource to do this, so we need the kitchen guy to do it. And because, in many cases, it is the municipality that has to do it, they are not taking the children into the nursery or school, and if there is no school in that settlement, then, correctly, the municipality has to provide it, only how the municipality can do it logistically. It wasn't entirely clear to me after reading the law. You don't even dare to think about whether there's a heating kitchen where God wouldn't give it to the children in a HACCP system. If you can help me with that, Secretary of State, thank you. In English, my questions would be more about clarification and clarification, how it can be made clear and clear to local governments in these matters, especially in disadvantaged small towns, how they need to resolve this and whether they have the logistical background that makes this possible. If not, then what on earth can you do to get it done? And the other - just for the sake of repetition - is the information about how to make it the simplest, almost automatic for families in need. If we get an answer to that, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-19-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, will take the floor. You have the floor.
u2015-11-19-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mónika. You're a very sympathetic politician to me. I didn't think he would attack me to this extent, because we can admit that I am very fond of children and that I work hard enough to try and work together to improve children in a bad situation. I didn't expect you to address me for more than six minutes out of 15 minutes in this style, because, I'm telling you, I think you're a very sympathetic politician. In several cases, we have voted in favour of laws. It is not true that we do not vote in favour of laws; in addition to family bankruptcy, we can list a lot of things. [[17.00]] We'd only see this gesture within the walls of this house once! What has led to a great debate in the last period would have been expected from the pro-government representatives at the national minimum. I think that when we get the criticism that we did not read the laws or have the intention of improving us, I ended my previous speech by saying 14 amendments by 4:00 today. All our amendments have been made with the intention of improving, because we want better for the children living in Hungary, and we are also working to improve the social care system. I would like to highlight some of these amendments, if I may. I will specifically ask Mrs Mónika Dunai to join these amendments and show you that you can cooperate with the opposition on such important issues, because, as my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said, we did not say that we would not support it. Then some of our modifications. We are proposing a 30% increase in the family allowance, which has been submitted so many times, because it has not increased since 2008. We are initiating an increase in this supply system and we would like to compensate for the past period, so please increase it by 30 percent. I call on Members to support this amendment. The next amendment. Children entitled to regular child protection benefits receive vouchers twice a year. This has not changed since 2008, so it is still HUF 5800 for a child. In our amendment proposal, we propose an increase of nearly 50 per cent, so that the Child Protection Act also states the specific amount. We believe that there is a need not only to compensate for the impairment so far, but also to take into account the serious situation of the families concerned. It is therefore appropriate to increase the rate higher than that proposed for the family allowance. We are talking about 2.7 billion forints, the heating of the stadium in the High Street costs the taxpayers 3 billion forints. I think if there's money for that, we'll find this in the budget. Our next amendment. For the most part, we stress that children who are entitled to regular child protection benefits should be offered free meals in all 12 years. I keep telling you that for me, 16-year-olds are kids and 17-year-olds are kids. And if he suffers some kind of deficiency, because under some circumstances he belongs to poor families, then we will take the initiative to expand this circle so that he can receive this care for the children until the end of the 12th grade. Our next amendment is the abolition of the nursery care fee. We gave it to you several times, you introduced it. It would be a great help to parents if they were to be erased. But if they keep it, we will take another initiative to reduce the income to 40 percent instead of 50 percent, to reduce the per capita income limit. Our next amendment: the government would provide an opportunity to waive the family allowance. That raises more questions. We had a Member of the European Parliament who went to Brussels, and since his income situation allowed him, he gave up his family allowance. When he and his kids moved home, the strange thing was that the children's Taj numbers automatically stopped after the family allowance had been cancelled. They're in a pretty awkward situation. Does this legal relationship still exist? Will it not cause this unpleasant situation that if someone gives up the family allowance, they will automatically end up in such a situation that the child's social security supply will cease? The other one. Maybe let me give you a little bit of criticism, if that's possible. This may be an admission that the single-key tax system is unfair, and wealthy families may need to pay more taxes or a multi-band tax system, since we keep saying that we are not sure that family allowances are needed by all families. Although this can also lead to a debate between the parties, as the family allowance is supposed to be due to the child, not to the parent, but to the child receiving the family allowance. We have yet another initiative to ensure that families living in poverty and families in need cannot, in some cases, give up this support system in order not to cause abuse. I think that children living in poverty, underprivileged children, should have a single case of malicious abuse in families, which is also a lot. I don't think they should allow this clause to be given up because the family allowance is due to the child. We still have an initiative, this is the payment of the family allowance for September at the end of August. This year, if I remember correctly, was introduced for the first time that the family allowance for September was received by the parents at the end of August. Basically, it would be an idea to support them if they didn't get into, say, an awkward situation in September, because all forints are needed before starting school. Everyone who raises children knows that, especially those who have more children. Let us propose that this be returned to September, or a new solution for an additional benefit to families in need in August, to whom this should be applied. It is very unpleasant when... Of course, when this amount comes in August, parents spend it, only in September can cause a difficult situation when this income falls out with families. I've only read a few of the 14 amendments. I think they're all eligible. But so is the rest I didn't read. I think all parties can say that they are working on this subject to find solutions to these problems. It's the government's job to assign a source to it. I ask the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP to demonstrate that we can work together and support these amendments as much as we will support this initiative, this package of laws with our vote in favour. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-19-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák, who has asked for the floor. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2015-11-19-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Before Mr Czibere, State Secretary, said the closing, I thought that I would respond to some of the elements of the debate and dialogue. Thank you very much to all those who have provided us with their support, not only in today's debate or discussion. Here, I would like to thank the Fidesz and KDNP fractions for the ongoing support work and for the ability to work together on these issues, because this is something we need very much when we try to move forward again in government work. I also thank you for the fact that there are some of the opposition who can also support the proposals they consider to be good. I think it would be important for us to be able to engage in professional debates at times, and that is why there was precedent here today. Some things have come up, and I think it's important to react before closing. One is that I think sometimes things get mixed up here with each other. We have now tabled a bill, an enforcement regulation will be linked to the law, and a number of things will be regulated there. That's part of it. On the other hand, there are budgetary issues that need to be settled in the Budget Act. In view of the fact that we are talking primarily about day care in kindergartens, i.e. day care for children under the age of three, since we are talking about a system to be introduced from 1 January 17, the budgetary implications of this will basically apply from 1 January 2017. [[17.10]] During the preparation of the law, we have also taken into account deregulation, trying to resolve issues at the level of law that are truly relevant and at the level of regulation the rest of it. To reassure you, I'd like to add two things to that. One is that a number of references were made to the representatives of civil society organisations to their views. I would like to reassure you that these measures, these drafts, will not only be sent out to them in the usual round of negotiations, we look forward to comments and respond to them, but we have sat down with them separately, discussed them in detail, discussed both the text of the law and we are working together on the implementing regulation. So this is absolutely done with the maximum involvement of those involved. I can also say that we have received absolutely positive feedback in these discussions. I can also say that it hurts family daycare people not to be called family day care, but to be called family day care, and I totally understand that, but they said that they could accept it, and they'll get used to it. But in meaningful, important steps, we could fully agree. The amendments they asked for, the adjustments they asked for, and we were able to accept them. Some of this came up here, and we found solutions to each of them together. The other aspect that I would like to respond to here is funding: this will be recorded in a budget law. But I can assure you that the financing situation will certainly not deteriorate, but will also improve from 1 January 2017. The extent to which the funding will be, will be fundamentally determined by the minimum conditions that we provide for, what needs to be met in order to provide the local authorities with a financing background. And yet again, in relation to day care, we say that local governments are taking on additional tasks and taking on significant additional tasks here. And I think what you are pointing out here was not something new for us, because that is exactly what we started with, that is what we said, and by recognising these current enlargement opportunities we have made this proposal, and I trust that we will be able to actually help as many families as possible. With regard to the Chanas, I would like to say that there is also a misunderstanding: here we can see, for example, how much children under the age of three dominate the Chanas at present. In just one year, the participation of children over three years of age in family daycare was reduced by 22 percent, and as compulsory kindergarten started from 1 September, these children over three basically appear in kindergartens. Indeed, the successor of the Chana, the family nursery, will serve those under the age of three. I would also like to reassure everyone that there is also an opportunity to provide such a supply to children over three years of age. What is not a mandatory task of this type will not involve public funding, but, of course, it will be possible in the future. I believe that the Secretary of State Czibere will respond to most of the points in his closing statement. What I would like to say here on the issues raised at the end of this debate about the family replacement or the resignation of the family allowance: on the one hand, I would like to reassure you that there will not be such a case as the Member mentioned in the context of the resignation of the family allowance and, on the other hand, that we are precisely creating an opportunity for what, for this very reason, was not really possible if we opened up the possibility of giving up the family allowance. And I also feel that bringing forward the family allowance, which is why, after a so-called trial year, we are going to prescribe this for ourselves and for every government following us to have this task, because whoever is raising a child, who lives in a family, knows precisely that at the end of August, when so many expenses can arise, that the additional income for the family will, if any, improve the liquidity situation, and that it can provide real help, the family allowance of HUF 50,000 for the three children, and the corresponding, say, if there is a small child in the family, or even the lawn, which can exceed an overall amount of HUF 70,000, let's say, in a family of three children. This can provide enough liquidity to make the start of a school year easier. And it seems to me that this year's experience in this case has been positive, I have not seen any negative experience; if you have, I look forward to it. Overall, I ask once again the Members present and the members of all the factions to ensure their support for these proposals, this package of laws. Thank you, everyone, for the amendments, and we will, of course, examine them and respond to them in the detailed debate. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-124	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2015-11-19-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I have one more question for the Secretary of State; I trust the answer, and I know that Mr Secretary of State will always answer the questions raised in his closing. As regards the reception of service providers, when no reception needs to be requested, there is a requirement, the winning EU applications, the Norwegian Fund, and the rest, but it has been stated that the proposals set out in the communication published by the Minister and other sources of money are involved. On the one hand, I find it a little incomplete to know which minister this is, why is this not in the bill? I don't even understand why he's in it. And I'd tell you why I don't understand. On the one hand, we may give up a lot of EU and other resources, and we will prevent them from getting involved, because many people, if they do not see that they can continue to provide that service, will not enter into this proposal. In many cases, we can miss a service that we didn't even think was necessary - and a successful tender that expands with such a wide range as the palette, which later brings a lot of benefits and benefits. What if it doesn't happen that way? I also understand the intention behind it, that just because there is a tender, mushroom mode should not reproduce services that will later be of no use to us and should be financed. However, since it is proposed in the same proposal that if the capacity is not used, so that such a service is actually operating on an empty flight, it is possible to terminate its operating licence immediately, so there is no problem. I do not understand why we have to put this in, thus excluding the inflow of a lot of EU or other international money, and we rule out the possibility that although the minister did not even think about it in the regulation - who knows which minister - a useful service was created. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-19-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Károly Czibere, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-19-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I, too, as the Secretary of State has expressed her thanks and appreciation, would like to thank you for all the comments and suggestions that have come in this debate. I also think that the way we can summarize the debate - and I would like to thank you, in the presidium, for the support that will be given to the bill when they vote on it - was that it really was an actable point in the debate, that it was a proposal that could embody a consensus, which had common values and common goals, that we really felt that it was steps in the right direction and that the goal was indeed common. Thank you very much to everyone who has added their own in this sense. I believe that today, in Hungary, it is indeed a common goal to provide our children with all the services, care that ensure their physical, mental, spiritual and moral development. We have at least three important arguments for this. On the one hand, children's rights are themselves: quite simply, as the Fundamental Law states, our children have the right to guarantee these basic goods. Another important principle is social solidarity: we simply cannot go without saying that if a child is not part of some basic property, and if we think that we are building a cohesion society, then we must think together about securing these basic goods. [[17.20]] It cannot be a family that, because of its financial and financial situation, is unable to provide the child with any basic benefits. The third is, and this is also important, that the child is an investment. So when we talk about child catering, its completion, a free textbook, the service, we are not talking about a set of budgets or public finances, we are talking about spending or spending, we are talking about investing in the future of our own common society, which is paying off. If we expand the system for eating children, we can expect fewer children who, let's say, are left behind in their development, who are struggling with learning problems, someone who is leaving school. So we think that eating children is a common concern because it is a social investment. But such is the expansion and development of the service structure, as the Secretary of State said. We believe that all the elements of this proposal serve this threefold objective, the enforcement of children's rights, the enforcement of the principle of social solidarity and the investment in our children as the future of our society. This is why it is important to have consensus and general, comprehensive support. By going into details and giving concrete answers to the questions, I would first like to talk about catering, although I have already tried to respond to two important misunderstandings. One is the two-day question that Congresswoman Bernadett Szél asked. And the other one is to secure the source. Let me say again, therefore, that we consider this summer's children's meal outcomes to be an extremely important achievement. At the same time, it is important to provide guarantees to ensure that all disadvantaged children get at least once a day of hot food. To do so, the guarantee can be assigned to the current system by making it mandatory and not optional, by creating its source of funding and by taking care of its logistical part. I agree with both of the proposals put forward by Congressman Mesterházy. So if the most disadvantaged are at risk of being unaware of this information in time, then, of course, this should be addressed with a high emphasis in order for each of them to know in time. Spring break's in March, so it's important that the information gets there in time. Lack of information should not prevent a child from being given this opportunity. The other issue was the logistics system. It is true that this is why the consultations took several months to see that the municipalities are very heterogene, very different in terms of how they know how to ensure a holiday meal through an infrastructure system. Not everywhere there is a kitchen, not everywhere there is a dining room, not everywhere there is a communal space. In addition, they need to be heated up in winter, and staff funding is still there. We believe that in terms of logistics, a preferential order must be established. Socially important objective is that when the child eats, not only a bowl of warm food, but also the opportunity to be with his peers in the age group, to take care of them, so that some community movement and community building may occur. Dining can be a case for which these children also receive other services in that dining room. Where I was, in the summer, I was at several places for a child's meal, and there was an extra, special service all over the restaurant. This is an extremely important aspect. We consider this to be extremely important, so that would be our priority. But where there are no rooms available or other infrastructure problems, logistical difficulties, of course, the question of house delivery opens. So we can also imagine that this will be included in the implementing regulation to have such an opportunity, where there is no infrastructure background or disproportionate difficulties or costs to organize this in one place, in a dining room, in a dining room, because it is not possible to force children in wintertime to take a bus to a nearby, say, school centre and get their meals there, so it is important that in this case it is possible to deliver, and through the infrastructure of social catering it is ensured. These were the most important questions in relation to the children's meals and the extension. With regard to child welfare, but also before, to capacity acceptance, which was the question of Mr Vágó Sebestyén, we consider it extremely important to set up a new system for capacity, precisely because of what the Member mentioned, because of the so-called EU funds, the automatic inclusion of capacities from EU proposals. And that is also the answer to the previous question, ministerial reception. Data from the first half of 2015 and the 14th year showed that while thousands of seats were hosted for two reasons... - there are currently three reasons for inclusion. One is automatic reception based on the obligation of local authorities to supply, the second is the reception of capacities developed from EU funds and the third is ministerial. Now, if we look at the data for the last 18 months about the reason for the receptions, we can see that the number of ministerial receptions is 16 seats. Meanwhile, the capacity taken in by the other two items is going to be thousands. And that is not the problem, but basically the fact that they do not always respond to needs. That's why there's this kind of transformation. This means that reception should not be requested at the end of the application and implementation, but before. So when someone wants, say, to build a daycare facility for people with disabilities from EU funds or to build other social services capacities, they should not think about how this will fit into the national capacity map, but in advance. This proposal serves this purpose. The Minister will therefore indicate in advance which proposals will accept the existing capacity. Among other things, in a tender, someone received training, trained housekeepers, and then took 2,000 home-care places. I don't know if it makes sense. The tender was different and the requested capacity was different. That's what we want to prevent. We consider it important that applicants not only think about how much malter, brick and how many square meters it takes for the given service, but also whether it fits the needs of the users. To do this, we provide all demographic and other indicators, maps, but it is important to fit in with them. This is why the system of advance pre-capacity reception is for this purpose and the ministerial reception of the aforementioned 16 seats - not an institution - took place in the previous period. This shows that the Ministry does look at the capacities it permits with a prudent consistency. Indeed, they serve to improve territorial balance, access opportunities and quality. So much for capacity acceptance. Finally, on child welfare, Mr Sebestyén Vigó also asked me. I think that after the amendment of the law was born in early summer, we sat down with a number of professional organizations. One of the most important experiences I had from this period was that its dominant specialists had prepared the enforcement regulation for the child welfare profession, so what we see here, starting with the professional staff, procedure and more. So the profession sees it strongly. In September, for example, there were roadshow and consultation, consultation with the professionals. We considered it important that this reform of the service should indeed be filled professionally with a content in which professionals can see the purpose from 1 January and see what it is about. You see, it's not 60-70 families to take care of for a caretaker, it's 25. You see, you don't have to sit in the office, you have to go out to the family three times a month. [[17 .30]] You can see that there will be no two-hour, three-and-four-hour primary status in family care, but eight-hour status. You see, in the walks, we assign additional professional services to the centers, and we don't have an assetless caregivers, and I can still classify them. So I think that in these areas - as justified by the profession - we have carried out a number of professional numbers and a transformation of powers that, if the district and local level are actually able to cooperate nicely, this is an important issue, then, indeed, more attention, more help and more energy, attention will be given to those disadvantaged families with their difficulties, which we have seen very often, in the absence of resources, may not receive this. Thus, we see, as indicated by the profession, that this transformation can enable them to actually achieve the original goal and add an additional source: the operating budget of child welfare services will increase by half a billion forints, with exactly HUF 466 million and an additional HUF 400 million will be allocated to the district child welfare centers in order for the one-time development training to take place. So we think that everything is given to all settlements to consider the possibilities and to begin to operate the new child welfare system from 1 January. I've come to the end of the answers. I would like to thank you once again for the advice, suggestions, contributions and I would like to thank you in advance if you will support the proposal with your votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-128	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill to amend certain health and health insurance laws will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/7404. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-19-129	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, For the first time, I have the opportunity to be in front of you, and I'm doing this with a lot of excitement, so I'm trying to be good in front of you, and I'm trying to be good in front of the opposition. However, before I begin my speech, I think I'd like to talk at least for a minute about the road that makes me here and what we'd like to do. I think that there have already been a lot of tasks before the State Secretariat in the previous term that have shown how public health-oriented the health government is. I do not think I need to talk about such things as public health product tax, amendment of the Non-Smoker Protection Act or even reduction of trans fatty acids. I think you also know that this path has been continued during Mr.Gábor Sombor's regency, and I would like to continue this, but let me also point out that, in the previous year, a separate basic supply law was adopted, and that what I had the pleasure of participating in was true, even when I was in ÁEEK, i.e. the consolidation of the state institutional system of 60 billion. I think this is the public health road that I will have to pursue, but I do not have to deny that there are problems in the system, because then I would have nothing to do with it. I think that there is no need to deny that the OECD study continues to show that the health status of the Hungarian population is not favourable, that there is still something to be done to improve, and that the wage situation in the healthcare system is not satisfactory. However, I would also like to say a few things in which I think I will have to represent the emphasis. This is that, in my view, institutional interests have been the drivers of the health care system in the last few years, rather than in the decade. I think we need to restore patient-centricity in health care, give back care to patients, and I think it all doesn't work if we don't give back the staff. Once again, I would like to emphasise that I would like to continue to represent the same programme for Healthy Hungary, which my predecessors did - thanks also to Gábor Sombor -. Dear Parliament, In fact, I would like to turn to the material of today's debate, the salad law, on which it may seem that this is just a salad, and therefore perhaps it deserves less attention, but in this case there are several elements of the salad that will change legislation that will affect our everyday lives. I would like to mention, first of all, the legislative amendment that I perhaps have the best understanding of as a warm-up: this is the amendment to the legislation on the management and protection of health and related personal data. I am in the lucky position that, thanks to the work of my predecessors, the more than 20 billion-dollar development, in connection with which the IT background of the health care system in Hungary has been renewed, has actually come to an end, but in order for this system to work, we also need a legislative background. We are now at the moment that the Electronic Health Service Space, which will connect thousands of health care facilities, can finally be operational, pilot programs will start at the beginning of next year, and we plan to join everyone who has to join us by the end of 2017. One or two attacks have appeared in the press and other places in view of the fact that this new type of system may hinder the freedom of patient data, but I have to say that our intention is exactly the opposite. One of the most important elements of this system is the self-determination module, which is trying - and I think it will succeed - to see where the data collected from it is stored and who can see it, to regulate it. Imagine this, in the case of previous traditional document management, when the patient went to a doctor's office, he was able to decide what to put in the file that he was going to give to his doctor, what he knew about his age history, and he regulated it with the gesture of what he had put in this file and what he had taken out of it. You can do the same through this system. I think it will also be an important relief for patients if they do not have to carry the recipes with them to the pharmacy, but get rid of this bond through the electronic recipe system. It is also an important element of this system that there will be an e-profile module, which may be important because if the patient does not co-operate in an emergency case, he cannot respond to the doctor, then the doctor will be able to have a set of data that would otherwise not be available to him. It's important to tell you that this system will be a security level five system, which means you'll get the highest rating. In this I am not a professional, the colleagues told me that the vast majority of the Hungarian banking system is classified on level three. I would also like to mention that the regulation complies with the European Parliament and Council Data Protection Directives 96/46. In order for this system to be operational, however, we also need to confer powers on the operator, so that the State Healthcare Services Centre which had previously succeeded in this project needs to have new powers, and to do so under Article XX of 1996. Law and the 1997 LXXX. Laws should also be amended. [[Between his writings:]] Excuse me, I'll be right back. Another element of the legislation is the amendment of the legislation on the protection of non-smokers. I think you may remember the last time this was amended, how successful it was here in Parliament, because a large part of the opposition supported it, and I think you also remember that the social inclusion of this legislation was very big; this is what we want to carry on. [[17.40]] In recent years, tools have emerged that contain nicotine or other substances in a way other than traditional smoking, and this product scope has not been regulated so far. This is what we are trying to do with this legislation, and we are being guided by the same goals as in the past, that is to say, we want to protect youth from becoming addicted to smoking, and we want to protect all passively smokers from exposing themselves to the effects of electric cigarettes and their materials. What's this about? The point is that in this new legislation, it is finally clarified what it is to be an electrical cigarette and what it is to imitate smoking. The rules on marketing, advertising, consumption and sales will be clarified. Our approach is simple: we want to bring traditional tobacco products to the same level as this product range. Why is that necessary? This is because the EU Directive 2014/40 obliges Member States to adopt legislation by 20 May 2016. I have to admit, ours is more proactive, because this directive only obliges Hungary to establish regulation for products containing nicotine. We've gone beyond that, we've included all the other instruments in the regulation. As I have said, in all four circles, the regulation will be the same, i.e. marketing, marketing, marketing, advertising and consumption, which means that it will only be possible to use electric cigarettes where smoking could otherwise be done, which means that it will be prohibited to advertise products in the same way as it is otherwise prohibited for other tobacco products, and which means that it will only be possible to access this subject in specific places. This also means that you will not be able to buy these products online. We asked all the professional bodies that we thought were opinion-forming about this, and interestingly, we received only supportive opinions on the health side. The third element of this legislation concerns workers' wages. I've already mentioned that the answer is what's most important to us. If you recall, there has been a wage increase, not once in 12 and 13 - apologies, several steps - but in this context the variable wage elements related to the basic wage, such as the on-call fee, standby fee or overwork, have not been raised. From July of this year, it is now possible to re-enhance this with a government decree, and we would like to return it to the legal level, i.e. the nearly 13 billion forints that we want to spend on this wage element, we will create the legal guarantee. The next element is perhaps the most, in my opinion, the subject of false news in recent days, and this is the unique pharmaceutical fairness system. I do not know how well you are aware of this, so there are some pharmaceuticals that have not previously received a marketing authorisation in Hungary and are therefore not supported. This is when it is possible to contact the cashier in order to support these medicines on a fair basis in the event of a patient's need. I don't know how clear it is to you that in the last two years this area has been the most dynamically developing section of the register, since from 2 billion to almost eight times the cost has gone up within the OEP. I think this was because there was no proper regulation in this area. We hope that the new legislative amendment will give us the opportunity to see that the technique that otherwise exists in all countries of the world, sharing the risk of funding between pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors and financing providers, will finally work. I have to add that last week there has been a dialogue with pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors, my experience, my feeling that there is a point on their part that could not be settled in the regulations for both them and for the financer, which I do not know today. 'Cause what's going on? The point is that if a new therapeutic tool, a medicine, is added to Hungary and the value of this medicine is higher than HUF 450 thousand per month, and if more than 15 patients are expected to need it on an annual basis, the pharmacist should take the initiative at the National Pharmaceutical Therapy Council to prove its effectiveness. If this certificate is carried out, OEP will be able to decide whether to grant the aid on a fair basis or, like other medicinal products, to be included in the other support groups. Therefore, it is not a matter of limiting any therapeutic potential for patients. There are many other amendments that I should talk about. I would also like to highlight some of these. We would also like to amend the waiting list registration system, and we would like to simplify this further, but let me say in a positive way that, in the last year, only 35,000 patients can be found on our waiting lists compared to the previous 44,000. This is partly due to the regulation and partly due to the HUF 6 billion provided by the Hungarian government. It is also clarified how patients should be provided with appropriate documentation in the practice, which means that the order of the outpatient paper is also regulated by a new legislation. We may also be able to talk about how the health plan will be developed in different walks, but I would not take any more time to do so, and in the course of the debate, I think there will be a question. I should also like to say that, in addition, there are a number of powers, clarifications and other provisions concerning entry into force. Dear Parliament, I would like to repeat myself once again: there are three or four elements of this salad legislation that may not deserve an adjective or an adjective, because I believe that these regulations will influence the everyday life of our lives in the future. I would like to ask you that if you would like to take part in the creative debate, we are open to this. I think that we will listen to all the amendments and I would like to ask you to support the legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-19-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Ms Ágnes Molnár, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-19-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I welcome the Secretary of State and wish him every success in his responsible work. When a new health bill comes before Parliament, we must not look at it alone, but as part of a longer process, but as another step in the process of renewing health care. There is five years of work behind the government, and we have achieved many results while still facing many challenges. Of course, we know that more is needed. As Mr. State Secretary said, the basic goals remained the same, and work continued on the basis of the Semmelweis plan and the. Healthy Hungary 2014-20. The strategy adopted by the government in January this year sets out the most important directions for health policy, including in the areas of public health, basic care, human resources, infrastructure and eHealth. Dear Parliament, I believe that the T/7404 that we have just discussed. There are many important amendments to the health bill, which help the system to function, and there are many, although the Secretary of State has also mentioned these areas, which are worth dealing with in detail. [[17.50]] Overall, we are talking about the amendment of eight health laws and some non-health laws. From a public health point of view, perhaps the most important is XLII 1999 on the protection of non-smokers and on the regulation of the consumption and marketing of tobacco products. a new amendment to the law. This is part of the obligation to harmonise legislation, but in part it is another stage in the government's struggle to reduce smoking and protect people's health. This is a significant, forward-looking step with huge public health gains in the long term. We must not forget that Parliament adopted it by a large majority and, as of 1 January 2012, it was introduced, as a rule, that smoking was prohibited in public, enclosed spaces and community spaces. With this milestone, we have been able to join the countries that have implemented one of Europe's state-of-the-art anti-smoking regulations. The current amendment to the legislation on the protection of non-smokers concerns the area of e-cigarette regulation. The EU Directive only covers the regulation of products containing nicotine, but Member States may regulate or prohibit accessories for tobacco products and products similar to certain types of tobacco or related products in their appearance. Such products include e-cigarettes containing no nicotine. The liquid used for e-cigarettes, the vapour produced during its operation, can be harmful to health, and the nicotine that enters the body separately is, of course, a health hazard in itself. The point of the changes is that the use of electric cigarettes and electrical devices that imitate smoking will be practically subject to the same restrictions on smoking, so that the use of electric cigarettes in public places will not be allowed. These electric cigarettes and devices will only be purchased at the National Tobacco Store, and we will also ensure that young people are protected from harm. We welcome the fact that, in order to reduce smoking, the significant public health impact of which is not enough to stress, we have taken another step. XLVII 1997 on the management and protection of health and related personal data The most important amendment to the Act is the creation of an electronic health service space - ESZT. First of all, we need to know that the complex development of electronic health services was launched a few years ago, after 2010, building on the sources of the European Union cycle, which in some respects can provide a completely new basis for Hungarian health. The largest amount of health IT investment has been made to date in building the foundations of the eHealth system, one of which will result in case descriptions and lab findings sent or transferred from one institution to another on paper, which are not uniformly completed and written, and will now move into the digital space. A further result is that there will be a connection to the new central IT system, which will be launched in the near future, to the highest degree of data and cyber protection in a single IT environment, ensuring effective communication within the health sector. With regard to the new system, it is very important that there is not an institution-centred system, but a patient-centred system. Therefore, it will no longer be the patient's job to carry his findings and documents from institution to institution, but will be stored in a so-called cloud, to which, with appropriate privileges, doctors will be able to access without loss of information, with the patient's self-determination. Thus, they do not need to perform multiple tests, doctors can immediately access the patient's findings, final reports, medical history, drug substitutions and appointments, and can make the immediate referral electronically. Data saves lives in this case. By the second half of 2017, all health institutions are scheduled to be connected to the single system. This current regulatory package ensures that, in accordance with data protection rules, the system can be implemented at the highest level of data security. The electronic health service space provides access to health care and to monitoring and development of care, the development of systematic data, analyses, scientific evidence-based decision-making materials to assist health professionals, health policy makers. As a main rule, the electronic health service space does not implement new data processing in the healthcare system, which has not yet been published in the healthcare system. The processing activities continue to be carried out by individual health institutions, namely natural persons, as well as health insurance and public supervision bodies, in accordance with the rules applicable to them. What does this electronic health service space do? Central event catalogue, health profile, self-determination register, electronic referral, digital image transfer services - these are those in which you act as a data controller for the operation of the services, but the processing of personal data is essential. The patient may limit the number of persons entitled to know his data by making a statement in the self-determination register. Overall, this is also an opportunity from which all three poles are shared by the use of modern infocommunication technologies in the supply system: the supply system, the provision organisation and the financing pole. In fact, the Semmelweis plan and the Healthy Hungary sectoral strategies provide a more service-oriented healthcare system. I think it is very important for the government to take measures, wherever possible, in every bill of health, which serve to honour our doctors and nurses, and I am therefore pleased that this bill also gives us the opportunity to do so. LXXXIV of 2003 on certain issues relating to the pursuit of health activities. The amendments made to Law 16 concern, on the one hand, resident employment and, on the other, mobile wages. Based on the new system of specialist training in force from 1 July 2015, the Health Recording and Training Centre (ENKK) shall exercise the basic employers' powers for all residents, and the other employers' powers shall be exercised by the healthcare provider designated as the resident's primary training facility. It is very important that, with regard to residents, where the law refers to the employer, the primary training place must always be understood. Here I would like to mention the results of the specialist training, which is clearly visible in terms of the number of people who have entered the training. [[18.00]] By mid-November 2015, 848 people entered specialist training based on the latest data. This means that more people have already entered the training this year than any previous year. In 2010, 420 persons entered the specialist training. From then on, there has been a continuous increase, which, of course, covers the first steps and results of the work carried out that the health sector's series of measures meant. It is very important that these measures have all appeared uniformly in the form of training, scholarships and wage increases. In 2012 and 2013, healthcare workers received nearly 100,000 two-step wage developments. At the first stage, nearly 90,000 professionals received a wage increase - an average of 17.6% - and in the second phase of 2013, an increase of 8.2 percent. From 2013 onwards, the budget has a budget of HUF 53.5 billion per year for health sector wage development. One of the most significant measures taken to keep residents at home was the launch of the residency support programme, which was launched from 2011. This program includes four types of scholarships, which provide a net income of HUF 100,000 and HUF 200,000 respectively. 2,500 young doctors signed up for this program and spent 3 billion HUF on scholarship applications. Young specialists who have resigned from the residency scheme will receive an additional gross grant of HUF 151 thousand for up to five years from 1 January 2016 in addition to their salary; in the 2016 budget, it will be covered by 2.5 billion. In the current bill, the mobile wages of health workers are released, i.e. the mobile wage elements of the wage increase in 2012-2013, on-call fees, standby fees, overtime fees, adjustment of the extra shift to the basic wage. It is very important that we introduced it by Government Decree on 1 July 2015 and now it is published as legislation on 1 January 2016. Nearly 80,000 employees are involved in this step. On average, the income of the professionals concerned is 5-15 thousand gross, and doctors can have 20-25 thousand HUF higher, with HUF 5.3 billion in 2015 and HUF 12.8 billion in 2016. The government spent 185 billion forints on wage payments, residents and wage increases by 2015, and 250 billion forints in 2016, together with 2016. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Overall, I believe that this bill contains a number of forward-looking proposals, measures, provisions that are either public health-related or of strategic importance. I think they all help improve the system and improve its functioning. The Fidesz fraction supports the very serious measures taken by the health government since 2010 for the benefit of Hungarian patients and healthcare workers. Therefore, T/7404. I would like to ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-19-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will, of course, take this moment into account in the next speaker. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-19-133	Thank you very much. We now have a very, very important law to amend, a number of laws, because we are talking about a salad law. It includes the amendment, it clarifies the environmental health tasks that will now have to be performed by the Minister of Health. This changes in what has already been discussed in the last few days, because from now on only those environmental health tasks that actually concern the Ministry of Health, because there are many of them in the common area of environmental protection and health. For example, we know that the number of asthma patients is increasing year after year, and the concentration of particulate matter and air pollution data in Hungary are showing an increasingly tragic and drastic picture, unfortunately. So in this area, there will also be work for the Fidesz-KDNP government, as will very, very many governments in the future. But let us move on to other areas of amendment, for example, as the Secretary of State has said, here is that the price of non-socially funded medicines can be supported in fairness on the basis of individual requests from OEP. According to the introduction of the new regulation, it is only possible to support new medicines that have not yet been applied for from equity in order to keep individual equity expenditure within a defined framework if they have already demonstrated their effectiveness and effectiveness in treating Hungarian patients. As we have read in many articles over the past period, and the Secretary of State has said that according to the Secretary of State, there are many rumors in this, but what we can understand is that people are obviously most important in terms of their health and their healing, so, of course, the articles appear, as they raise these problems and questions that people feel in this amendment. Thus, we can read in several places that from this unique equity framework, health insurance has so far supported medicines for diseases such as leukaemia, brain cancer, advanced Parkinson's disease and C-viral hepatitis. Both the patient organisations and the pharmaceutical association have expressed concern over the planned changes in the use of individual equity products in recent years. Just because there are changes in the draft of the proposal that, in their opinion, adversely affect patients, the supported new therapies can only be made available to Hungarian patients if the manufacturer gives the medicinal product at its own expense for an indefinite period and free of charge to a number of patients. In addition, this will not give any guarantee that the medicine will ever receive support. It is feared, and many people wonder whether a significant proportion of manufacturers will do so. And they are nervous that, by the way, a significant proportion of manufacturers will not be able to do so, so the new medicines will not be placed on the market in Hungary; access to new, modern medicines will make it impossible for people to receive these medicines. The question is really: if these medicines, these new products, are working abroad and it can be demonstrated that, let us say, we are talking about proven preparations within the European Union in other Member States, is it possible for people to get this from a unique equity framework. We understand that this register has grown many times, but we think that people's health and recovery as quickly as possible are the most important issues, and in this respect money does not matter. After all, unique tragedies can be experienced, and the people who are involved in this issue cannot be explained by the fact that this framework has increased many times and has been many times the amount earned. This is why we ask for reflection or at least reassuring answers. Which has seriously hit us, too, to change the rules on the protection of non-smokers and certain rules on the consumption and marketing of tobacco products. For example, as you say, we're talking about changing the e-cigarette here. In fact, the amendment is about, as the Secretary of State said, that from now on it is only possible to purchase these devices, cartridges and the associated devices in the trades; it is not possible to purchase these devices in Hungary via the Internet, but only in designated tobacco stores. The problem is that there is a difference in thinking, because we believe that there is no nicotine in it, and there are also a lot of organizations and professional organizations that describe that many of the products that you now share with you have nicotine content and which do not contain nicotine content. You want to crowd everything into the trades, tobacco stores, which also increases the revenue of the tradesmen, which is something that you can think of, especially with regard to distribution, how people could get to trades in Hungary today, and how they could only be the service providers of smoking people. [[18.10]] It's absurd, because people who want to quit smoking start using e-cigarettes. Many friends and acquaintances of mine and many individuals on Facebook, who, by the way, are among my acquaintances, describe the fact that they have actually helped them to quit by using the e-cigarette, because that is exactly what the substitute action in smoking is about to trigger. And I'm telling you, I'm not sure they use nicotine-containing cartridges to use these e-cigarettes. By now buying these tools only at the tobacco store, it's really like being on a diet and chased into a chocolate store or, you know, forcing an alcoholic to go to a pub. The second is that only designated smoking areas will be able to use these devices. From now on, we'll send these people in where the rest of you smoke tobacco. He's trying to quit smoking, and he needs to go with the e-cigarette to the area where the smoke is actually blown out, which we know is more harmful to passive smoking than it is to continue smoking tobacco. Even though people try to quit, they see that the person next to them smokes, we make their lives much harder. Mr Secretary of State has also said that the EU rule says that nicotine-containing devices must be regulated. We don't think we should get past this right now. We should let people take the first step to quit, not force them into a position where they have to buy it and then otherwise consume the humidity in this device, where what they're about to quit is everywhere in front of them. I will now give the floor to my fellow Member, and I will continue to do so in my next speech. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-134	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who is another lead speaker of the MSZP, of course, the same time frame as her.
u2015-11-19-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I would like to draw attention to some of the elements of the legislative package here. No sperm bank can currently receive or store sperm if it does not perform human reproductive intervention. The investigation into the imports of Danish donor semen showed that it is necessary to amend the health legislation in order to provide a legal basis for the removal or storage of donor cells. But it also appears in the regulations that this can only be a healthcare provider who has an appropriate license under a government decree. This may be an interesting amendment to the fertility centers, which is 26. § in the law. Here I have to mention in this amendment that raising fertility subsidies could be a serious solution to childbearing and demographic problems today. It is good that you are here, former Secretary of State, Gábor Zombor announced in January that there is serious will, there is a very strong intention on the part of the government, that the 2 billion-dollar fertility aid will be increased to HUF 4 billion this year. I have said this several times in my speeches that this serious intention, very strong will - it is November - has not happened since then. According to data, existing statistical data, nearly 200,000 couples are struggling with fertility problems in Hungary today, these are only official data, there are a lot more people than that. Essentially, having a child for these couples with fertility problems would help the birth of longing children. It should always be pointed out here that we are talking about the children we want, and if only 10 percent of the 200,000 couples could have these desired children in one year, I think we could make serious progress in dealing with the demographic situation. I think the government should finally have this very, very serious, strong will. I hope that the new Secretary of State will represent this a little more strongly. The next problem I would like to draw attention to is that the rules for the purchase of medical aids are amended so that distributors can obtain the medical aid not only from the distributor, which will enter into force from 2016, but also through other economic operators, such as a pharmaceutical wholesaler. Let us hope that this will not mean that another player will enter the market and, let us say, make these aids more expensive. I hope, Mr Secretary of State, that this will not happen with this amendment. It is interesting that, according to previous reports, the government has already started the certification of public catering companies, even though the government has only just received the authority to draft the legislation regulating it. We have already submitted a parliamentary decision on the classification of public catering, and we have asked the government to review the regulation of public catering, precisely because of what has been happening in connection with the menu since September. We keep saying that we do not have a problem, we agree that children should get healthy food as soon as possible, that families should strive at home, and that public institutions should strive even more to ensure that the child gets healthy food, but that this regulation should be reviewed very quickly precisely because of what has been developed in the last two months for public companies or kitchens run by the local government itself. It is not possible for the child who has not starved until now to starve in public food, precisely because of the situation that has arisen. We are always talking about salt and sugar, there are many more problems in this regulation than the withdrawal of salt and the reduction of sugar. I said in my speech the other day that this regulation requires that the child consumes 5 litres of milk or milk products in 10 days. It is also stipulated that milk with a higher fat content is different from one age group to another, although smaller children have higher fat content, it is possible to reduce fat content in larger children, but the regulation does not take into account that more than 30 percent of children born now or children are allergic to any of the ingredients of milk. This is a very serious problem, and in addition to this amount of dairy products, even children get milk products and milk from the school milk scheme itself. It should also be examined how much of these products are put into so-called slops, because I am getting very bad news about this. Or, let's say, I mentioned the Szeghalm example last time, the mayor of Szeghalm responded first of all that the regulation does not take into account the fact that in Hungary there are areas with very high water iodine content, and the decree requires that only iodine salts can be used by school and public companies. In essence, this Regulation does not take these specialities into account. We should be looking at this very quickly, so as not to cause any more damage. I have very little time left, and I'm just going to say a few things. The Ombudsman's recommendations should also be taken into account in the amendments to the pharmacist's on-call. One of these asked the minister concerned, in cooperation with the Hungarian Pharmacy Chamber, to initiate amendments to the provisions of the Act of 1997 on Health and, where necessary, of other laws and regulations with a content which, in order to limit the right of pharmacists to a necessary level or to a proportionate degree to the undertaking, settle all guarantee rules for the performance of on-call and standby services by law, subject to a predictable system of criteria and transparent compensation. The new provisions in the proposal do not seem to provide a clear solution to all the problems raised by the Ombudsman. We don't know exactly what and when the chemists can sell. In fact, there is only a description of how public health authorities will have to determine which drugstores should provide on-call or standby. It is worth noting that the Hungarian Pharmacy Association has already proposed a number of things in the summer, for example, to buy all the products of the pharmacy on call, but to be available only on medical initiative. [[18.20]] They also resented that, in their view, the Ombudsman's report states that pharmacists are obliged to do this work for free, which, in their view, violates the freedom of otherwise profit-oriented enterprises and does not take into account the different load-bearing capacity of pharmacists. In essence, I wanted to draw attention to these problems, and I hope that we can work together to solve these problems in the next period. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-19-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Lukács, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, will be here to speak.
u2015-11-19-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome to Parliament, Secretary of State, and thank you very much for the hopefully good habit of giving a brief introduction to the bill, from which we learned what the credo of your profession and your future plans is, as it were, what you are planning to see and how you can see the events of the future. If you have to describe it in one word, it was now marked by a surprising and unusual honesty in politics at some level. I wish that it would always be possible to debate between the walls of this House in such an honest atmosphere and in a professional atmosphere, especially when we are debating matters as important as health care. For our part, we've tried to follow this before. I believe that today's bill will also be debated in the spirit of this. I wish for effective and fruitful work to be done on behalf of the Secretary of State. It is strange that an opposition representative wishes to do so, because the opposition role obviously does not dictate this, but I want them now not from the opposition role, but from the importance that health needs a calm twenty years in the next 20 years, in which the professional programmes that are really important for renewal, to stay on their feet, must happen and start somewhere. I wish the Secretary of State to turn the ship's sails this way and move in this direction. With regard to the bill itself, we see that 13 legal bases are required to be amended by the Autumn Medical Salad Act. If salad laws can be described, such a law, a bill package, should always be regarded as such, that if health itself resembles a fully-complicated car, then these legislative proposals, which consist of many, many laws and are modified in many places, always come up with a changer correction, an adjustment, in which the State Secretary essentially rebuttons and repositions those that have arisen about the needs of the practice profession. Although there are proposals here that are unlikely to arise from the need for a practice, rather from a different place, but essentially the merit of these legislative proposals is that they comb out those problems, implement those desired or perhaps less desired fine-tunings that ensure the system's functionality. In substance, I'll start with the proposals for legislation on strictly administrative matters. It is clear that the provision concerning the function of health authority activities in which a previous deficiency can be addressed is clarified, thus creating a fine for the activity that includes the activity in the case of unauthorised activity. So far, with a little lack, you've always missed it. It is also a very small, but interesting to raise the provision of Legionella bacteria to the legal level. During the past few years, the public may have been thinking about the need to filter this disease or this bacteria in the baths. It is worth knowing that in the country of baths it is not only necessary to take action in order to prevent legionar disease, but also as an infectious source in places such as fountains, air conditioning, cooling towers, room refrigerators, humidifiers, hot tubs, and even aquariums can cause diseases or carry bacteria that are the breeding ground for Legionella and which can cause very serious consequences. A number of people have mentioned the need for monitoring of the food supply. In fact, this may have come to the back of it, or we are trying to solve this problem, or we are looking for regulation, but it is also known that there is a regulation in this regard, and OGYÉI, the Directorate-General of the National Institute for Food and Nutrition has already prepared a control guide on the applicability of the regulation, which is available and which allows for the examination of the child feeding anomalies of the past period. Now perhaps it is worth asking what the real purpose of this bill or this amendment is. Let us ask you calmly what your real purpose is, in case you can explain better why this is necessary right now. Of course, we all know that there have been serious problems in the feeding process over the past period, but obviously they also covered stylistic problems, and they were not necessarily health issues. Which, on the other hand, is a cardinal element of the bill, and it has longed for a very long time - I myself like to go with the age and I have been waiting for a very long time - and in professional berks one of the oldest-wanted facilities of the so-called e-health or i-health, who calls it. In this case, the creation of the Electronic Health Service Space, which is an essential and good element of this entire electronic health system that we imagined and that everyone wanted. In essence, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the project itself started on the right foot, but there were anomalies. We remember that last year there was a time and a phase where the project itself was implemented only 7 percent in total, and the project was caught up in a implementation process. This could have been around March 2014, and perhaps not even changed in substance until November. What we knew about it and what was interesting was that with HUF 2.1 billion of system development it essentially brought an efficiency, or hopefully it will bring an efficiency that will not only be a timely development - because it is a timely development - but also a more convenient system for patients and institutions, which will allow a much faster response and more effective care. With the interconnection of data in electronic procedures and the interconnection of organs themselves, I think that a serious health benefit can be achieved, which will help us to help with our very big lag in the OECD statistics mentioned by the Secretary of State, which is typical of Hungarian health in general, perhaps we can help to improve these health indicators and indicators, if we create a very effective, extremely precise background. If laymen are watching - I assume they are watching - the debate of this bill, the service space itself, which is not a service space, but a network, the best way to describe it is to look at who is involved and what data is included, to include health service providers, pharmacies, state rescue services, or to include public bodies who are entitled to participate in this regulation. Therefore, the data protection concerns raised earlier appear to be a relatively closed circle, who, by reason of their vocation, are obliged to secrecy, or because of the ethics or ethical requirements of their profession, not only that they are bound to secrecy, but also to the confidentiality of personal data or personal status, so we can say that they are in good hands with the players who have access to the data. But what data is most exciting, because within the system you can view and transmit more patient data that is extremely important. These may, for example, be seen by the laymen, the event catalogs, the supply events, the documents that would otherwise be linked to this, the date of the supply, the circumstances of the supply, or even the data of the participating institutions. It's all very important to be in a system. A very good answer to security questions was the high level of security given by this system, so that there is a higher level of protection than the bank's, which is not, by the way, data that you don't carry on a card, for example, or even carry in your wallet. Of course, the Taj number, the date of birth, these data are almost always available to humans, so they can cause abuse in any way, but it has to be stated that this system, which everyone was really looking forward to, seems essentially to be a very secure system. I wish that the institutions involved in the pilot or test part of it will be able to increase the expected entry into operation in 2017 with useful experience, because there must be more work to be done on it. One of the positive points I would like to point out is that it has been very cleverly established for this development in addition to e-health or e-health, it is also an element of mHealth, so it is also an element of mobile health. [[18.30]] What is important is that almost all of us are already communicating with smart devices, and the presence of smart devices, whether we like it or not, is a real problem for many people, but, of course, for many people here in health care, they will be more of a relief. In any case, I would like to highlight this long-awaited element that, on the part of Jobbik, and of course, everyone who thinks in an effective health care system, has the maximum support, no matter how the final vote goes. There was a huge media interest in pharmaceutical issues. I don't know how much media interest. I have to admit, Jobbik has also been a little bit on the media interest in the bill on pharmaceutical matters. It has been associated with the support of medicinal products authorised for placing on the market but not yet applied for and indications. In many ways, we also thought that this was a very unfair point of the system, and we ourselves have written down the criticisms that had been applied to the government, and which has opposed one of the pans to having a government will, which has not yet been known the numerical data that makes the opposition politician think about at some level. I mean, while we were talking about 2 billion forints, there wasn't a huge amount of money in the budget volume, but the fact that we're talking about this eight times in this case is, of course, a rethink. In the other pan, of course, there is still the extent to which patients' ability to heal will be guaranteed by the new regulations. In this, we still see that maybe less. And what goes best for them is the time factor of how long it takes to go through this procedure of opinion, which will make it easily and quickly accessible to patients, a medicine or medicine that is very important to them. It is important to note that Jobbik does not wish to side with pharmaceutical manufacturers. We believe that they have sufficient ammunition, sufficient economic background, sufficient results, if you will, had time to reap their own profits. But we cannot expect them to bear all kinds of costs in this case as a division of tasks. So I would like to say that we do not want to take the side of pharmaceutical manufacturers in any way or in any way, but rationality simply dictates that they cannot be trusted to have access to medicines on their own. Because it is highly likely that the patients and consumers will drink it in this case. Here I have written to myself that it is unclear how many patients or how long they should be paid. Otherwise, there may already be calculations to be made as to how long the medicinal product manufacturer or the person who placed it on the market will have to finance their own patient. But perhaps what was the most convincing argument or interesting argument was exactly this huge eight-fold increase that was in this register. This should, however, require a rationally thinking health politician to reconsider many things about this. But I ask carefully and with caution that the State Secretariat examine it, so that the interests of patients are not harmed, that they are not disadvantaged, and that, indeed, what is the right and what seems to be a valid argument in those press criticisms. As far as the pharmaceutical amendment is concerned, it may also be a reason for further reflection, which is the annual amount of doctors and pharmacists received from the drug lobby, which would be regulated as 60% of the minimum wage. In a way, that's a lot, if you put it that way, it's not much. So what would be interesting is that we are not talking about an amount or a percentage, but about the effectiveness of control. Because, by the way, what we've written is that 60 percent of the minimum wage is probably worth as much as the paper it's printed on if there's no control behind it, which means we'd draw attention to the strictness of control. It's the pharmacies' duty order. I believe that this has led to very serious debates in recent years, and that the positions of the retail and pharmaceutical chambers have also become known. Perhaps the worst thing now is that I don't see the otherwise well-developed arguments that the Chamber itself has put forward, or which, by the way, are adapted to a walk or a district system, they might come up. I have a very missing feeling about the bill in this case. There was caution in the promise, and there may not have been any trace of it in this bill. There is even a concern that the administrative body requires the pharmacy to be on call, stand-by, and that the appeal against the decision does not have suspensive effect. This may also be a little unfair to the drugstores that perform the task well. But, of course, it must also be taken into account that there is a residential expectation on the other side, even if it is an interesting residential expectation. I believe that my fellow Member, Mr Rig, will present a case when he has been examined in Tapolca and around to see what kind of drug sales have been on-call. I'm not sure that public expectations always coincide with what the profession would justify. But here too, it is important to pay attention to the expectations of the population. In view of the fact that I have no more time left, I will continue in a further comment. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There will now be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied for a written speech. First up, Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group, next up. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-19-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! First of all, allow me, Mr Secretary, to wish you every success in your work. It is not a simple task; if it can be expressed by a medical term, it must perform a reanimation on a very dying health care. My fellow Member, Luke, gave a broad opinion on the law and the salad law before us. I would take two or three parts out of it, which, in our opinion, is a little bit of a concern, and it might need to be rethinking or changing its regulation. First of all, I would like to say a few thoughts about the law on the protection of non-smokers and here, typically, about the e-cigarette, but I think I will have some fellow Members who will comment. I would like to make it clear in advance that, in addition to the unfortunate choice of name, electric cigarettes have nothing to do with traditional cigarettes. It is formed by heating nicotine-free or nicotine-free liquid and only works when breathing the humidity. When used, there is no continuous combustion, no smoke, no ash, no butts. It's not a tobacco product. Classification and regulation of tobacco products are preposterous. If I were to make a comparison now, I would go further along this logic, the use of a water gun or even a water cannon should be regulated in the Firearms and Ammunition Act. I have a lot of friends who quit smoking with e-cigarettes or smoking devices. In my opinion, the law decrees that people who have stopped smoking at least three or four years ago because of this product or during the use of this product are moved to the same place where smokers smoke cigarettes in designated places, that is harmful. They're passive smokers. The goal would be to look at the public health and public health aspect so that they do not get used to it, but it is a temptation. Once again, I would like to loosen the mood: this again sounds like a man recovering from alcohol sickness should buy and consume his daily mineral water at the pub. I also believe that there is no debate between Members that each Member has an acquaintance who has given up smoking with the e-cigarette. If we put that in the tobacco store, it's a seduction. I will tell you more concerns that give rise to rethink, and if you do so, Mr Secretary of State, as you have said, then respect, because this concerns not only the few hundreds, but thousands, hundreds of thousands of people and among them health workers. I mean, there's a job that doesn't allow him to go out and smoke every 10 to 15 or 20 to 30 minutes. If I'm watching a long surgery, you'll have to stay in the operating room for up to 4-5 hours and use an e-cigarette or a smoking device that doesn't contain nicotine, doesn't smoke, only gives a mist. I'm guessing there's one among your acquaintances. Great health research has not been carried out in Hungary on the harmful side effects of e-cigarettes. [[18.40]] I can tell you a few thoughts about a British analysis. None of them said that the use of e-cigarettes is completely healthy and free from all substances, but they did find that 95% is more effective than smoking, so 5 percent is the maximum harmful effect of e-cigarettes and materials. We know that e-cigarettes are the most popular means of education, and they are used by more than ten times as many people as in local smoking facilities, but here it should be noted that we also know that these local centres are by far the most efficient, and here, especially, the EFI offices that help them. Therefore, we believe that these two should be linked, the most popular method being the most effective, so those who want to use cigarettes to quit are encouraged to seek help from local professionals. If this regulation was introduced from 2016, the e-cigarette and the cigarette instrument could be purchased in specialised stores and on the Internet. I've been looking at some of these, it's not easy to put together, or even use them. In professional stores, professionals will enlighten people who want to quit smoking, how to use it, how to assemble, how to refill. Once again, if I take my own example - I'm a smoker, unfortunately, for now - if I go into the tobacco shop, I ask the seller there for a tobacco product, he doesn't even know what I'm asking, so he doesn't even know about tobacco. If I ask you to show me how to assemble this e-cigarette, how to use it, you can't answer that either. That is why we have tabled amendments that would regulate this. Let us take it out of this medical salad law for now and try to create a legal opportunity for professional stores to continue. We can do that, and the government can do that in these specialty stores, just like the tobacco stores are for people over 18 years old. The odds of an underage getting used to e-cigarette are a little bit higher, but the possibility of smoking and smoking cigarettes is higher, so it's statistics again. I believe that these regulations could be introduced, I trust - this is not just my request, this is also the request of the profession - to be reviewed and to consider the efficiency and possibilities of the amendments that we have tabled on this subject, to support it. I have listened to the speeches by the lead speaker and I have been waiting for them to address each subject, and I have also expected from the Secretary of State, but I have missed an issue that is unpleasant enough here in Parliament to say, and we are talking about a rather slippery subject, which is the subject of sperm banks. It was also my job to ask this question, but I will take it, I will take it, and I will tell you, I have taken it to heart. I've talked to a lot of professionals, head of the institution about this case, and I think it involves a larger layer. Everyone knows that the Krio bank, the sperm bank, had been removed from operation, perhaps after eight years of import of Danish sperm donors, two sex cells carrying some genetic defect were also implanted, perhaps in Szeged and Miskolc, but thanks to God and God's watching hand, each child remained completely healthy. I would like to draw attention to one or two shortcomings that have caused this confusion, and please, Mr. Secretary of State, we are not treating this as an immediate cessation of operation and banning it from all sorts of things, because this will make more barren families lose the opportunity to have a child's blessing in the family that is amazing. So the number of these families is about 300-400, and if we are monitoring family policy, the family policy of Fidesz-KDNP, then this is a Eligible principle and guidance. We know that the SAO and the OTH have officially learned during the inspection carried out at the Krio Institute that all the flask baby centers provided by Krio, to a decisive extent - and unfortunately, this is the problem here, that they use mainly foreign sperm cells, since Crio has been asked by the ÁNTSZ, OTH, for a list of these providers. It is important to know that recruitment, recruitment of donors in Hungary is the task of the sperm bank, but now that its operation has been terminated, and the legislation gives it the opportunity to only surrender or offer sperm, which will perform this IVF in fertility centres, in my opinion it will result in a one-year delay, since none of the fertility centres has a sperm bank, each fertility center has taken over these donors from the Krio Institute, and I have not only talked to one provider, several providers, several operators have bought Danish and other foreign sperm from this bank. There is one more legal problem with this, that there has been a mix-up between the offering and the background of the donation. I don't know if Mr Secretary of State can answer that right now, but if not, please respond in writing to how you are trying to resolve this. Also, our amendment proposal would go in the direction of taking this out of the law and sitting down with the co-organs and managers of the profession, conducting a doctor's professional consultation to ensure that this one-year gap is reached, as a year goes by between application and donation, and until then, unfortunately, these 300 families cannot start having children. I'll continue with the pharmacies later. Although I still have time, so I can keep going. My fellow Member Luke mentioned the question of pharmacies. This is a very good step forward in order to oblige pharmacies to perform on-call, standby, either in districts or in cities, where there is a condition for this. Over the past few years, I've been collecting the appearances that were usually in on-call time. It was examined that between 21 and midnight, in pharmacies, if you look at an average city, in the four months nearly twenty of the emergency medications - and I say emergency medications - were consumed, the Jungee contraceptive pill was 3 monthly doses, Cavinton forte, Tantum verde, Brulamycin eye drops, so it was minor. In general, the regulation has worked so far by the fact that pharmacists leading pharmacies have indicated to the OTH that they will terminate or intend to continue on duty. The problem is that they have the same problem as other health care sectors, that pharmacists are very few. The pharmacist should be able to provide on-call time that if they ask for a drug that is mixed out of its various components on the spot, it cannot be done by a pharmacist's assistant, and the biggest problem in my district is that in Tapolca, too, pharmacy duty has ceased. It is possible, and I have already discussed, to restore it again, even in a stand-by form - which gives less income to the handling pharmacist - but it would still be a temporary solution if we could keep these pharmacists at home and not work abroad. Tapolca and its district consist of about 72 thousand inhabitants, and even 80, during the summer period, this swells, and the unfortunate situation has emerged that neither Tapolca nor Sümegen nor Ajka have night duty, pharmacy duty, is in the nearest Keszthely or Veszprém. Indeed, when my fellow Member Luke said that this is a very good step forward, yes, all you need to know is that these pharmacies are almost 100% private pharmacies and even 100% private pharmacies, they are trying to generate standby or on-call remuneration from their income, and the state is not contributing. I don't even want to look like a protector of private drugstores right now, but I'd rather have a solution so that everyone can benefit, benefit the population, have a pharmacy available 24 hours a day, everyone wants it, and everyone wants it that way. [[18.50]] However, we need legislation to ensure that they are able to comply with it, because they have removed the low appearance and the financing problems have been the biggest problems for them. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-19-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, has asked for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-11-19-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to comment on the e-cigarette myself, as one who uses this device, and who, after 20 years of smoking, started this quitting aid - I would like to stress, at least for my part, that is how I feel, the use of a quitting aid. Jobbik cannot accept the passages of this proposal relating to the distribution of e-cigarettes. In the past, you, the Fidesz, have passed a law to protect non-smokers in order to protect citizens from the harmful effects of passive smoking, including in restaurants, public places and public transport. This proposal now seeks to chase electric cigarette owners to designated smoking places and expose them to passive smoking. The proposal limits not only the place of use, but also the strict conditions for the trade in electric cigarettes, since the right to sell can only be granted to national tobacco shops, otherwise with reduced stock. By the way, with this step, there is nothing more than the fact that a market worth about HUF 4-5 billion is once again being distributed by the government to its own friends. It is important to clarify what has already been said here from my fellow Member Rig, but perhaps from something else, that electric cigarettes have nothing to do with traditional cigarettes. In fact, it is not a cigarette, it is not actually a tobacco, it has incomparably less harmful effects, it has a harmful substance, if at all, because it is important to distinguish, for example, as we have heard, between nicotine-free or nicotine-free electric cigarettes. I have also met the research that says that the use of e-cigi is 95 percent less harmful - so it is not healthier obviously, less harmful - than smoking. Water vapour, which is developed by this, does not contain or contain very little harmful substances, so that no one is inadvertently passively becoming a smoker. However, if we accept this proposal, we are putting up with the users of e-cigarettes and, in fact, forcing them to bear the harmful effects of passive smoking. I remember that, because at the time, as a smoker, as opposed to the law, or as a rather inquisitor, I also spoke to the Non-Smoker Protection Act at the time, and I also remember the same hypocrisy as the law when the party appointed one of the Members, our fellow Member Heintz, who, by the way, did not provide memorable performance, announced overnight that he had quit smoking and became a fighter of anti-Smoking, then, of course, a few weeks later, smoking in secret here, there, there, and a few months later. That's pretty much how credible the whole law was, by the way, which we adopted in his presentation at the time. The most important arguments then were both to ban smoking in public places and to shift tobacco products to national tobacco stores, the most important argument was health protection, preventing young people from accessing products that would destroy their health. People using e-cigarettes, my dear fellow Members, are not smokers, so they also have the right to the protection of non-smoking people. This bill is contrary to that. Several research has examined the impact of electric cigarettes on both its user and its environment. According to a recent study in New Zealand, for example, the level of harmful substances from electric cigarettes is roughly 1 percent of the amount measured in traditional tobacco smoke. So there is plenty of research, pro and versus research here, and it is also possible to examine, for example, whether the research that makes electric cigarettes dangerous was actually sponsored by anyone from the background. In any case, it is certainly not a coincidence, and I myself experienced about 3-4 weeks ago that there may be some connection between the fact that the SAO published a research a few weeks ago and that this proposal has just come before the House. According to many people, e-cigarette is one of the most effective means of quitting tobacco products, cigarettes, smoking, including this research in New Zealand - otherwise I dare not attempt to say its name - according to Professor, according to whom this amount of nicotine found in the e-cigarette is sufficient to treat the temporary symptoms associated with addiction, if it contains nicotine at all, I would like to emphasise it. So think of the pressure that practically putting him under when we banish a smoker who quit a couple of months ago. There is obviously a possibility that this person will become more accustomed, or that if we remove all the possibilities and spaces of using an electric cigarette, which has so far been the case with traditional smoking, it will obviously be less attractive, less motivating, so quitting smoking will in fact become much more difficult, since a person who decides to quit smoking - that's what I did at the beginning of this year - will have much less opportunity to give a handhold, much less opportunity to use a substitute, because, in fact, electric cigarettes, a substitute, a substitute act that gives a similar experience to fixed habits. Now that this substantial difference between where to smoke and where to use an electric cigarette will not, of course, help to stop smoking. The government, therefore, Mr Secretary of State, should not make e-cigarette users impossible, but on the contrary, they should be motivated or motivated by traditional smokers to switch to the electric version. This bill will certainly not help this. Someone says that if 100,000 smokers get used to electric cigarettes, they can save almost 600 lives a year, so statistics are abundant. E-cigarette opponents often draw attention to nicotine content and its harmful effects, but it is important to stress that in domestic anti-electric cigarettes studies it is clear that most domestic users use nicotine-free products. When I prepared this speech, I looked at the arguments against it. There were rather poor arguments, such as the fact that a small child at some point drank this liquid that we use for electric cigarettes, and then he had a problem, or, for example, that electric cigarettes do not actually help him quit, but rather make it easier for people who do not want to smoke at all, or could hear such a strong argument that the electrical cigarette filling equipment is flammable. With this power, any electrical device could be a cell phone charger. The risk of habitating with regular cigarettes is much more significant if we send non-smokers to the side of active smokers, Mr Secretary of State. In Hungary, the number of e-cigarette users has increased steadily over the last few years, and in parallel, obviously this is linked, demand for quitting products made by various pharmaceutical companies, such as patches, has fallen or may have suffered a loss of income. These industries will, as appropriate, make every effort to bring these people back to the smoking community. It would be very sad if the Hungarian government seemed to be a partner in this endeavour. If that is not the intention, it will certainly be the result of the proposal. [[19.00]] In connection with the proposals concerning electric cigarettes, several NGOs and associations raised their voices, submitted proposals to Members of Parliament, announced in the press, including the Electricity Association and the Civil Health Protection Movement of the Electric Cigarette Platform, which stressed the health risks I have already described, and highlighted that hundreds of people could lose their jobs by adopting the law. In the future, only national tobacco shops can sell electric cigarettes, as we know, so the government practically destroys the small entrepreneurs that brought them in and promoted them and boosts the turnover of these products. In these shops, including my fellow Member Rig, there are experienced sellers with years of experience, scientific and technical, but mostly technical backgrounds, who enjoy the confidence of about 150,000 domestic users. The sellers of tobacco stores, of course, will not be expected to do so. So, to shift e-cigarettes to national tobacco stores, health protection has little to do with this proposal, in fact, it favours former traffic-winning buddies, Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members, distributes a 5 billion forint market, redistributes - with a power word - by the government. By the way, you are doing this by the fact that the Hungarian state has now started to lose the trampers in a series in Strasbourg. We do know that a Trafikos in Sopron - László Vény, who was deprived of his trademark license in 2013, sued the Hungarian State for violation of the right to private property and otherwise won compensation of EUR 15,000. These lawsuits will come in line. You are actually repeating the same thing, but you are not going to shut down, eliminate and virtually nationalize, communize, but those small shops or specialised shops that are now selling these products. Congresswoman Molnár also referred to a great deal of health protection for young people when it comes to buying e-cigarettes and similar products only in national tobacco shops. It is quite simply possible to resolve this, Congresswoman: these electronic cigarettes stores, which are currently in place, must also include the 18th circle, the same laws, the same provisions that apply to the sale here, for example, regarding the entry of young people or their service. With that, we could solve the whole question. Obviously, there is no rational reason for this proposal other than the profit interests of friends. Worst-case scenario, at most, these stores will be seen as a sex shop by foreigners like a national tobacco store, but obviously this should not be the obstacle. In addition to closing e-cigi shops, the draft would also close the webshops. This would make distribution even more uncontrollable, as would product safety; and, moreover, it is feared that the black market could rise, which will in fact lead to a loss of revenue for the State. I brought an e-cigarette with me, by the way. There's nothing yet against using it. Overall, I would like to say that we will not support this proposal. The secretary of state with e-cigarette does not smoke, so it is entitled to the protection of non-smokers. This distorted information cannot be allowed to dissuade those who wish to convert to e-cigarettes and those who already use only e-cigarettes, to wait for an ongoing research and research from Semmelweis University, and perhaps to consult those who use e-cigarettes. In your good habit, when this bill was tabled, of course, you did not seek to consult the stakeholders at a minimum level, but we have seen this in the last five years. Therefore, we do not want to allow the means to stop passive smoking to be impossible, because that is what would happen; we do not want and do not agree with the closing and banning of online stores; we do not want the black trade to grow; and we do not want multinational giant companies to influence legislation in any way. Dear Secretary of State, It's an e-cigarette in my hand, it's been used here...
u2015-11-19-142	Congressman, may I ask you to finish this in the Chamber?
u2015-11-19-143	... the use of this has already been described by my fellow Member. You're welcome, Mr. Vice President, if you're an information tool...
u2015-11-19-144	Yeah, I'm gonna ask you very strongly. Do the illustration somewhere else.
u2015-11-19-145	It's okay. That doesn't stop me from holding it. For the time being, it is not forbidden to use e-cigarettes even here in Parliament's Chamber, which I would like to draw to the attention of the Secretary of State. This may have been omitted from this proposal, so I suggest that this be banned quickly. Overall, Mr State Secretary, neither political, health policy, professional or economic considerations justify the proposals relating to the distribution of e-cigarettes nor the proposals that would force e-cigarette users to smoke passively. And that's how you want to protect him. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the health of Hungarian people and young Hungarians, that they are actually endangering the health of those who have already taken the first step [[The president's ringing again.]] To quit smoking. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-19-146	Once again, Mr President, there is no room for illustration in this Chamber. I will inform Mr. Speaker of this. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches... [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] Of course, Mr Speaker has the right to act on these matters. Statement will be made by Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP Group.
u2015-11-19-147	Thank you very much. Since I am and have been non-smoking in my whole life, bias is not much to be accused of, but there are so many people who have approached me about this problem that I feel that we really need to talk about all aspects of this amendment, because it affects very, very many people. I would particularly like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that so far Internet commerce has occurred mostly on websites and, by the way, it has also been sold in specialised stores where skilled professionals, who could be asked about these devices, as they say, about their health-damaging effects, which, as a matter of fact, is 95 percent less than tobacco products, and could ask questions about their use. Now, if we squeeze these products into the trades, then right now, there are no people who know how to do this. Obviously, they will be trained, but in the meantime, the sale will be done without the people there. What we see is that this will really push the e-cigarette towards the black trade, because what will happen next is that young people will find the surfaces from which they can buy these devices from abroad, and they will often buy much worse products in their capacity. My friends told me that if you want to buy a cartridge for this device, in many cases you can order from China, for example. You may not be able to get the correct information on what this cartridge contains from there. I think that we need a regulation where we really will not have to buy these tools in hiding, and we will not have to look for the loopholes, but we can do it under regulated conditions, of course. But this should not be about - and I am a little afraid, as my better fellow Member said, that it is now being regulated, and that they should be placed in specialized stores that do not redistribute the market here, because as a Member of Tolna County, I could say a lot about the distribution of traffic, but a little. So I'm really asking you to reconsider this bill. You don't have to over-regulate, and you don't have to be so strict. You really have to see that these people want to quit smoking. Obviously, those who have been smoking for a long time, it's a very long process, and if it helps them to do so, let's not overrule them, especially if they're smoking an e-cigarette that doesn't have nicotine anymore, but they really just miss the move. And yes, we must protect the children on this issue. But children who see their parents smoking or smoking e-cigarettes are very difficult to protect from this thing anyway, but regardless, we have to protect them from all aspects. What I would also like to draw your attention to and ask questions, in order to see if I can get more reassuring answers, to regulate that in the future there should be no website link to the website of the institution leading the waiting list on the OEP website. [[19.10]] The only question we have is how this has offended the current government, because the more places it is located, the more places it is available, the more references back and forth, the easier it is for people to find these data. Obviously, it is an inconvenience that it makes it easier to put together a complete national picture of these waiting lists, but I think it would not affect them in this respect, because it is good for people to be able to access them as easily as possible and find out where to find the waiting lists. Therefore, we do not understand why this should be over-regulated here too. We have one more question. This law has been issued twice this year by the Ministry, but despite the discussions, it is unclear whether the President of the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority actually agrees with the proposal, since it contains a significant part of the proposal's data management provisions. You can see on the NAIH website that one of these has been challenged by the data protection authority, and it has been missing that the proposal does not define the purpose of data processing when it orders, for example, that the provider of the medicinal product retains the prescription for five years. The reason for the proposal is that the supplier of the medicinal product will not need to store the data on the prescription, and it seems that the rapporteur has sought to ensure that the current regulated special information is adequately protected, and it would be good to be sure that, on the basis of a statement from the President of the Authority, the proposal is not at least objectionable from the point of view of data management. So in this, we ask you to coordinate with the president of NAIH, and otherwise to reassure the public from the point of view of data management. What is certain, and what the MSZP says in any case, is that we need more money in health care, but you know that healthcare is a sector, as unfortunately as the social sector is now, that it is a little under pressure as a child in the current administration. Unfortunately, we can see this in many news, which shows scandalous conditions in Hungarian health care and hospitals. Therefore, although we can see the steps on wage planning, we need a comprehensive wage-setting programme, in an even greater proportion, as you know that emigration is one of the largest in these areas. We need to keep our doctors here, we need to keep our residents here, we need to keep our nurses here, and we need to be able to create conditions for them where they can do their job normally, conscientiously, so they don't have to think about how they're gonna pay their checks. Conscience is not questionable in these people, professional knowledge is not questionable, but when home problems - especially financial problems - push these people, they cannot be expected to be minded at every moment. But they really are doing such a job, but you know it best, and the former Secretary of State knows that they are doing a job in which there is no mistake, and humanity is a very, very important issue. It is precisely an important question to keep doctors, nurses and residents here, which I have said many times in Parliament, and as many times as possible, I will tell you that the problem of my own constituency is the problem of the cellar hospital, where the active beds are now closed, but it is tens of thousands of people in 17 settlements who are now completely losing their first supply space. These are the people who really just asked for at least one day of surgery. As I indicated to Mr. Secretary of State, I ask that we consider this problem together, in case we can find a solution if, by the way, the renovation of a wing of the hospital has already taken place, so that at least one day of surgery can remain with them, so that when a small accident happens to a villager living in the area, a sack settlement, they can rush into, as it is now, the cellar hospital and have their primary care point, where they can really only do so much to stitch that wound up or solve problems that can be solved in one day's surgery with them. This is very, very important for this area, because it is an ageing small region where people move more difficult and, as I said, there are a lot of small sack settlements in the area, from which travel is very, very difficult. It should not be a problem for these people to be able to protect their own health. That is why I ask for the discussion on this issue to reassure the people who live there that we have not forgotten them. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-148	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-19-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would ask my fellow Member Szávay not to give such good ideas, if possible, to modify Parliament's decision-making rules in the sense that e-cigs cannot be used in there, because in the end we will find ourselves facing any of our amendments, be it a decision or a bill, that it will still be able to accept the governing party. So I'm not suggesting that we put this in here anyway. Let's keep things the same, and the e-girl should be where she's supposed to be. Otherwise, there really is no prohibition that would ban you from this House or otherwise allow you to use it here. After all, it's the humidity of a water vapour, and I'm sweating, and a salt lamp, if any, could be placed here, and the evaporation from it wouldn't be particularly harmful than what's in the e-cigarette. But also very interesting is the debate in which we are involved: e-cigarettes and e-health, both of which were at some level an advanced activity. EHealth wanted to improve health, and e-cigarette wanted to help people who are quitting in some way to move away from smoking, which has otherwise very harmful health effects, and which would otherwise need to be prevented. But if we continue to think about the analogy - and this is worth raising - we can slowly move the patches, the chewing gums, or the pills that are used to quit, from the pharmacy to the tobacco store. By the way, it also has a very serious financial part, perhaps even more than 5 billion, so I would suggest that people interested in trafikmuty should also take over this economic consideration and, in any case, relocate them there. They will fit well together there, and after all, the sellers there will not only be familiar with the assembly of e-cigi, but they will also be able to add adverts to the advertisement to ask not only their doctor or pharmacist, but also the woman who serves in the trucks about the adverse health effects, if any. Now, in any case, we can see what a contradiction there is in the direction we would like to take on two electronic pages. I believe that the amendments made by the Jobbik for Hungary concerning the complete deletion of this part - so this is a well-defined part of the bill, and there is perhaps something scattered in three places towards the end that is relevant - we would also like to recommend to the Government and the Secretary of State for Health. This is worth deleting, and let us have a professional debate in this, with which, by the way, in support of the studies known by Congressman Szávay, by listening to the commercial organisations themselves, we will create a complete, completely transparent argument system, on the basis of which, of course, if the argument system is going to have to go somewhere else, or if the protection against smoking really has to be an 18-something ring at the malls, then let us choose this solution, but at least have a substantive debate, a substantive preparation that seems to be missing. It is important that I talk not only about the negatives, that Jobbik is in any way in favour - and has always supported - of the provisions on the wages of workers in the health sector. We therefore support, of course, and consider it important, in the winter season, the release, contrary to freezing, of mobile wage elements that can now be regulated in line with basic salary, together with the sectoral wage increase. We definitely consider it important, not only because the scope of the relevant regulation expired on 31 December, but certainly an important gesture to the workers that the government is counting on them and thinking about them, not only to hear what they are right, but also to see that they are right and that the government is doing something to solve the otherwise extremely bad wage situation for those working in health care. We referred to the OECD report several times today, and this is precisely where Hungarian nurses are the worst earners in the OECD, both in purchasing power parities and in total volume. This shows, on the one hand, that all this work, which is being done with an increasing burden due to a shortage of professionals, with increased burnout, how poorly funded, how badly dotted, and how not reflected in the amount of work they pay, which, by the way, I think is humiliating. But, of course, there are several such sectors, the social sector has similar problems, but for us, for health politicians, or for those who are now involved in the debate, yet the priority role of health is important. [[19.20]] We therefore fully support this part of the bill. There are many more important things to do in wage setting, but this is one of its ways. It is also worth considering the rules on the marketing of medicinal products for the rarer diseases already mentioned. The reason we are proposing this is because it seems that we should continue a well-thought-out professional debate on this issue, which, in this case, may not have been possible in the absence of consultation, although the problem is that we do not really see it as a politician or a Member of Parliament, as we are not, of course, parties, so we are not invited, and on the other hand the documents of the conciliation are government prep documents that we do not have access to under any kind of information law - but perhaps it is okay. However, in many cases, we would like to see that, in line with the arguments put forward, which, by the way, reach politicians, the government should build the bill and the amendments in line with these arguments. The same applies, moreover, to the Chamber's claims relating to the pharmacist's on-call. There was a very long discussion, as I recall, and it was a very careful consultation, and, as I said, I do not see it reflect the text or, where appropriate, the reflection of the arguments of the proposals that the Chamber, I believe, has said and made in a clear and well-defined manner, and which would be in the interest not only of the Chamber, but also of the patients. I therefore strongly suggest that we reconsider and that the government reconsider what is the position. I very strongly believe that the regulation on electric cigarettes in this form is not mature for that debate or at all for the change. I think that the decision would be premature in this regard, especially in the direction that I think is not an explicit example of health, but rather of economic influence. I think it's simply economical, in this case. Of course... I am afraid to say that the economic objectives, because I dare hope that, in this respect, the economic objectives of the Health Secretary-General will always be below the health objectives, of course, economic efficiency in other areas may be important than, in the case of the drug register on rare diseases, there may also be economic arguments that could, for example, override the health expectations that the patients were waiting for. I therefore believe that there is a need for a little more time in this area, and it would certainly be necessary to take time to re- comb the Chamber's proposals, so that you can either expand there or now leave this provision, and to introduce a complete legal regulation concerning pharmaceutical activity, the patio, which reflects much more the opinion of the Chamber, the public confidence embodied in the Chamber, and the membership there, because the professional experience that must be included in the legislative proposals came from their side. In this case, I don't see that. To sum up, it is clear that the Jobbik Hungary Movement agrees with a number of points, such as eHealth, but such as the integration of mobile wages and so on the release of mobile wages, so this must be supported. But there are some points of dispute on which, I think, it is still very interesting to think about the decision that can be made in the package of laws, or how overall it will undermine the judgment of the entire bill if there is no shift in these points. It is strange to say this, but it may have been possible until several hours ago to submit the amendments, and we have done so for our part, and we recommend to the attention of the government that we consider them together. We are in the face of a debate either in the Welfare Committee or in the closure process. I believe that it is possible to find a consensus with which this bill can rid itself of the few elements that we consider to be flawed and become a really good bill, which I believe all opposition parties will be able to support in that case. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-19-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs: Only in the closing word.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Dr. Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs: Only in the closing word. Anita Herring: That's it! Dr. László György Lukács: This is it right here.]] Mr Secretary of State, I would like to welcome you with a warm welcome to my fellow Members, and I would like to say that I have not been the first to say this to you. Now, the answers and the closing words are all in one piece, so you have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2015-11-19-151	Thank you very much. I don't know if I can hear you. I was unruly, and I apologize to everyone, but this is my first performance, and thank you very much for the part of the debate that was professional and less performable. I think it has been instructive for me to see what's going on in the benches of a parliament, so I'd like to start in a row, which I can respond to, and I'm trying. First of all, on the subject of sperm, the slippery subject, I would like to ask you in writing if I can have the question, then I will answer it. I'm standing here a little weird because I thought the regulation wasn't narrowing it down, it's expanding the range of possibilities, so what we talked about is different in my head, but we'll talk about it when we need to. I'm a little puzzled about the topic in the pharmacy case right now, because I've met all the chambers in the last three weeks, this kind of problem hasn't been reported to me by the chambers. I'm going to ask them again on Monday what they think about the patio opening hours, and I'm curious about their opinion. Thank God we didn't get any criticisms about the EEW, thank you for your support, both parties. I really hope I'm not gonna end up like I was when I was a young head of the clinic in 2003, when they came in and told me that in three months, there's gonna be an e-recept, and then 12 years have passed. So I really hope that I don't have to be ashamed of this right now, and that everything will work for the second half of 2017. What I think I need to talk about longer is e-cigarette, because there are a lot of arguments here. I'd like to reason on my own knowledge, my own knowledge. I don't think anyone should think that electric cigarettes are medicine, do they? The thing is, no one can even think, at least I don't know, that there is a study that would support the fact that e-cigarette helps to quit. We don't know that kind of study. If you can pull that off without being sponsored by an e-cigarette, I'd love to read it. We don't know anything about that. My main problem with it is that while the conventional method can be used to administer nicotine, it cannot be controlled by e-cigarettes, so the person using a cartridge containing e-cigarettes and nicotine does not know what he will eventually get. I would add that the product scope itself is extremely new, it is not regulated, depending on the manufacturer, there are 50-fold differences in the amount of nicotine, depending on who you are buying a cartridge from. I go further: if there is no nicotine content in the cartridge, there are other volatile substances, and no one has ever examined their effects, but it is a fact and a fact that some of them are carcinogenic. I can't tell you if what you're smoking is one of these things. [[István Szávay: Nor!]] I can tell you that if we're talking about this, we should definitely warn ourselves to be cautious. And remember how many decades it took for a regular cigarette to pass before we could prove to the drug lobby that it was harmful to the health of the person who smokes it, and also to those who otherwise receive it passively. There's a lot of studies on pro and versus. I think that the Hungarian government is not making a mistake when it urges the public to be cautious in this regard. To the chocolate shop comparison, I'll tell you the truth, I can't react right now. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] It's a very exciting topic. I'm gonna have to deal with this, too. Thank you very much for this kind of comment. Returning to the e-cigarette, I think that there are some dangers, because if you just think that if 6 milligrams of nicotine from a vial comes into the skin of a child, it could endanger your life, I think that this is not an area of danger. I think that this must be considered when they argue this, and that is why I didn't have it - how should I put it? - this performance is good, because you didn't take that into account. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] What is important to mention is that in the studies I've known, I say once again, I don't know how to help you quit, but rather maintain the addiction to nicotine or to nicotine. I don't know anything about that. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have seen what kind of lobbying power an industry can use through the media in the press, and I would like to avoid facing the same force in ten or twenty years' time. [[19.30]] I think it's just in time for the government to make sure it doesn't reach this size. There have been many other speeches. I've just written these down, and I think we're gonna consider them by the wallet. If there is a committee meeting, I will try to respond on the ground. But I would like to ask Mr Lajos Rig once again, if I get this in writing, I will answer. Thank you for showing me my hesitation for the first time. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-19-152	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, Our last item today is the general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on the regulation of education until closure. The government referral is T/7405. The Court of Auditors' information is available on the Parliament's IT network. The information material has been received by the lead speakers and may also be taken over by my fellow Members at the Office of Security. First, I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-11-19-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The operation, education and training of Hungarian higher education is the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. by law. The Nftv. under Article X (3) of the Fundamental Law, the aim was to increase the quality of higher education, to create the conditions necessary to gain competitive knowledge and to ensure the functioning of the institutional system. At its meeting on 22 December 2014, the Government adopted the Higher Education Strategy, the document "Training in Higher Education." The aim of the strategy is to operate the higher education system, highly positioned in the international educational and research space, which is capable of responding to societal challenges and which determines Hungary's economic success. The key to Hungary's development is Hungarian higher education of the right size and quality, which can respond to both social and economic challenges. In order to achieve these goals, everything is given in Hungarian higher education. Therefore, the task of the next decade is to use our strengths, opportunities, resources and existing experience to create one of the best higher education systems in the region, focusing on performance, high quality, competitive knowledge and the joint success of teachers and students. The Higher Education Strategy is a 15-year guidance setting out the objectives and tasks needed to develop performance-based domestic higher education. One of the objectives of the higher education strategy is to rationalise the network of higher education institutions, to develop a system of institutions adapted to the spatial structure of Hungary, which is conducive to quality improvement and which creates competition. We want to establish a higher education system where available public resources can be concentrated on strong areas of international competition. According to the concept, by 2030 one of the best higher education systems in Central Europe can be set up in Hungary, which, in addition to being able to finance its activities through quality education and competitive training, will be adapted to labour market expectations, social needs, demographic change and research and development and innovation processes. By this date, the strategy sets out the objectives and actions to be achieved in the fields of education excellence, world-class research and social responsibility. The main objectives of the concept can be summarised as follows: firstly, the development of cooperation and competition within and outside the higher education institution system, the structure of training adapted to labour market and social expectations, world-class higher education based on academic values, the transformation of doctoral training, the improvement of the efficiency of the acquisition of degrees, the provision of scientific reinforcements, the establishment of a university research, development and innovation background capable of ensuring the innovation capacity of the Hungarian economy and the establishment of a subsequent institutional system adapted to these objectives. The aim of the bill is to implement the adopted higher education strategy and, in this context, Nftv. Amendment 3 and the bill amends Annex XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants. Act C of 2001 on foreign certificates and diplomas and Act CXC of 2011 on national public education. Law. The substantive provisions of the amendment can be summarised as follows. I would first like to refer to the amendment of the law on the status of civil servants. For the public higher education institution, Kjt shall be applied with the derogations set out in Nftv. In higher education institutions, Kjt. and Annex 2 thereto sets out the system for the promotion and salaries of its instructors and of civil servants who hold scientific research positions in central budgetary bodies. With this Kjt. amendment, the teaching job is Kjt. According to Annex 2 to this Regulation, the staff member's guaranteed salary was transferred to a pay table determined on the basis of the guaranteed salary of grade 1 of the teaching position laid down in the Budget Act. The Kjt. 79/B. §2 of the Act provides for classification and promotional rules for the posts in the pay table in Annex 2, the teaching, research and the teaching posts introduced by the amendment. This table was adopted by the National Assembly in 2001, since then it has not been considered since then, since this kind of promotional system, linked to the payment structure of the grade 1 university professor, seems to have been justified by time and is well-imaged by the kind of career planning that professionals who are newly admitted to the university can follow, either as teachers' assistants, as academic assistants or as teachers. A salary increase for teachers, academic researchers and teachers in higher education institutions is required to adjust the rate of guaranteed salary. This will take place in several steps. In respect of a 15% wage increase due from 1 January 2016, the draft empowers the staff, academic researchers and teachers to regulate the increase in salary in the government decree. The additional salary increase of 5-5 per cent due from 1 January 2017 and 1 January 2018 may be settled by the 2017 and 18 budget laws respectively. The resources of this salary arrangement shall be provided by the central budget in all three cases. The second amendment is an amendment to Act C of 2001 on foreign certificates and diplomas. The draft contains CXL 2004 on general rules for administrative procedures and services. It shall state in the official proceedings, on the basis of an amendment to law, the case of suspension of proceedings where a criminal offence is suspected of being committed. There is also a need to amend the law on national public education. The draft sets out the necessary legal rules for the issue of student IDs and teacher IDs as electronic cards. The Ket. In accordance with its amendment to the Act on Public Education, it shall record the suspension of the procedure in cases where criminal proceedings have been brought in the case of suspicion of a criminal offence. According to the National Public Education Act, a student can start a new school year only in adult education from the year in which he reaches the age of 25 in high school and vocational school. In order to ensure consistency with that provision, Nkt is justified. repealing its provisions setting the age limit for military professional qualifications at 24 years. The last substantive amendment concerns the Higher Education Act. First, I would like to say a few words about the restructuring of the institutional network. CXXXI 2015 amending Nftv. According to the Act, from 1 September 2015, the primary institutions of higher education, the university and the college were supplemented with a new institutional form: the university of applied sciences. The university of applied sciences is the higher education institution, which is entitled to receive at least four initial education courses and two master's courses, where he is a specialist in technical, IT, agricultural, natural sciences or economics, has at least two dual education courses, has at least 45 percent of his teachers and researchers employed in employment and public employment, is able to continue his training in a foreign language, and operates academia. From 1 January 2016, the Budapest Economic College, the Dunaújváros College and the Nyíregyháza College can continue as a university of state applied sciences. The Budapest Metropolitan College can continue its operation as a university of non-state applied sciences. [[19.40]] From 1 July 2016, with the merger of the Eszterházy Károly College and the Károly Róbert College in Gyöngyös, the Eszterházy Károly University, the Szolnok College and the Kecskemét College can form a university of applied sciences. From 1 July 2016 the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine from St. Stephen University can be established as an independent University of Veterinary Medicine. Its specific training structure justifies a partial deviation from the general legal requirements. A further regulation clarifies the current rules by laying down that, in the event of separation, the new higher education institution or another higher education institution integrating an excellent department will be the successor of the original higher education institution. We are also proposing changes to the rules on institutional governance. The head body of the higher education institution is the Senate. All questions relating to the functioning of the Senate shall be defined in the organizational and operational regulations of the higher education institution, within the limits of the provisions laid down by law. The scope of these provisions is added in the bill to the fact that elected members of the Senate are personally obliged to carry out their duties. Furthermore, the amendment's provision that the election should take into account the proportionate representation of full-time instructors, researchers and teachers ensures that the democratic principles of the election of the members of the Senate are enforced. In view of the fact that an institution has several faculties of different sizes, it is particularly important to present the principle of proportionality at the legal level in order not to put a large, significant arm in the Senate under-represented in the decision-making process. As a result of the amendment, the rules governing the exercise of the employer's right can be regulated by the rector and the chancellor's instructions. The aim of the amendment is to increase the operational efficiency of institutions by defining often changing employers' powers not as part of a lengthy and complicated policy modification process, but as a much simpler instruction. At the same time, workers' rights are not violated, as the legislation also includes the need to notify the data subject directly and in writing, and the instructions should be published. The following amendments concern education, training and students. The training and output requirements of religious training are regulated by the minister on the initiative of church maintenance, and therefore there is no government regulation on the inclusion of new qualifications on the list. In this context, the legislation clarifies the existing legislation. The courses of faith, as well as the vocational education and training of higher education, are included in the training and output requirements. Professional training may be established in institutional capacity, after the initial or master degree, and may be awarded without State aid, which may be organised outside the head office of the higher education institution as a result of the amendment. The Nftv. The provisions on student work are complemented by the fact that the student is entitled to a remuneration throughout the entire training period of the recently defined dual training. The definition of the work carried out on the basis of student employment contracts is also clarified. The regulation of student work is added to the possibility that Nftv for a maximum period of 12 weeks during the relationship of a student of Hungarian nationality with a foreign higher education institution. may also establish a relationship with a Hungarian employer under the conditions of student work. The draft contains an amendment to the remedies which may be brought against first instance decisions taken during the recruitment procedure. On the basis of the amendment, the supervisory body entitled to consider an appeal is entitled to act not only against the classification decision but also against all first instance decisions, thereby allowing the exercise of the fundamental right to appeal against all decisions. The rules on admission procedures are added to the Ke. by requiring the application of its procedural principles. The current Nftv. In accordance with point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following conditions shall apply: This provision should be applied first in the first year of September 2016 for those who are Nftv. prior to its entry into force, they obtained a certificate without complying with a language requirement. The bill proposes to abolish the language examination requirement from among the conditions of entry to the master's degree. On the basis of the amendment, it will be sufficient to fulfil the language requirement set out in the training and output requirements of the relevant Master's course as an output condition. The 1993 LXXX on Higher Education. CXXXI of 2015 on the amendment of certain laws governing higher education relating to higher education in respect of higher education studies which have been started under law but have not been completed. As of 1 September 2015, Act No. 5 set a final date for the final examination. The draft shall amend that date to 1 September 2018. By this date, you will have the opportunity to complete the final exam by 1 September 2016 and thus have obtained an absolutorium for former students. CXXXI 2015 A student who has not obtained at least 18 credits on an average of two semesters and has not reached the study average laid down in the institution's organisational and operational regulations should be transferred to self-cost training. The entry into force of the Summer 2015 provision is amended and, on the basis of the draft, Article 2016/2017. In the first half of the academic year, the reclassification rule shall be applied to students starting their studies and thereafter to an emerging system. The Ket. In the context of the amendment to the Act on Higher Education, the draft also provides for the suspension of the procedure in cases where criminal proceedings are brought in the case of suspicion of a criminal offence. The draft also proposes the legislation necessary for the issue of the student card as an electronic card. A very significant change in the bill is a change in the transformation of doctoral training. The draft extends the training period for doctoral training from six semesters to eight semesters. During the first two years, we called this the training and research phase, compulsory subjects will be published during training. After the first two years, the progress of the doctoral student must be assessed in the form of a complex examination - this means that the doctoral discipline will cease - which aims to allow the higher education institution to continue only those doctoral students who, based on their performance, progress and assessment of their field of science, have a good chance of getting a degree. The second two years, this research and dissertation phase, should be about the continuation of doctoral research and the writing of the doctoral thesis, after which, within a year, the dissertation should be submitted within two years on reasonable grounds. A doctoral student may also be required to prepare for graduation individually, provided that he has fulfilled the requirements of admission and doctoral training. In this case, the student's relationship begins with the application for the complex exam and is created by the completion of it. The amendment will also increase the PhD scholarship. In the first two years, it is proposed to propose a monthly scholarship of HUF 140,000 for the current HUF 100,000 in the second two years, and therefore for the second two years following the completion of the complex exam, HUF 180,000. As a motivation for obtaining the doctoral degree, students who successfully defend their dissertation will receive a lump sum reward of HUF 400 000. The aim of the bill is to make higher education institutions interested in obtaining degrees for students applying for doctoral education. It also increases the responsibility of the doctoral school, the research institute and the thesis supervisor in this process. In the event that the student does not get a degree, the student who passed the complex exam does not obtain a degree, for the second two years, so the training allowance for the two years following the completion of the complex examination may be deducted from the funding of the higher education institution in the following year. It was a very important element, also derived from the higher education strategy, in the fields of R &amp; D and innovation of higher education institutions, to improve and facilitate entrepreneurship conditions. At this moment, this does not contribute significantly to funding; 1.5-2 percent of the total higher education budget is the amount that higher education institutions, universities and colleges generate directly from this type of revenue. The Nftv. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that the scientific and material benefits resulting from the strengthening of industrial, corporate relations and cooperation are reflected, in particular, not in companies established by state higher education institutions, but directly in institutions operating in the form of budgetary bodies which are required to fulfil more stringent accounting obligations. At the same time, it is important that the range of R &amp; D entrepreneurship activities with special regulations, the rules for the conduct and accounting of these entrepreneurship activities are clearly defined away from the range of R &amp; D activities carried out from public finance sources, ensuring that their accounts can be verified and that universities can operate in accordance with rules similar to those of companies, i.e. similar to those of the partners. The scope of activities to be included in the R &amp; D business activity of higher education: the 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation carried out on the basis of revenue, orders or cooperation from outside public finances. Act No. 3 - Research and development activities as defined in point 11 of Section 11 of Section 11 of Act No. LXXVI of 2014 on scientific research, development and innovation Act No. 3 The innovation activity as defined in point 6 of Section 6 of the Act, as well as the part activities of these which universities and colleges can typically provide for corporate research and development projects and innovation, are virtually a lot from measurements to engineering calculations. [[19.50]] R &amp; D activities as defined in point 11 of Section 11 of Section 11 of the Act on Scientific Research, Development and Innovation, 2014 - LXXVI. Act No. 3 The innovation activity as defined in point 6 of Section 6 of the Act, as well as the part activities of these which universities and colleges can typically provide for corporate research and development projects and innovation, are virtually a lot from measurements to engineering calculations.(19.50) From the point of view of the content of the regulation, it is important that the scope of the R &amp; D entrepreneurship activities of higher education is conceptually covered by the basic issues, highlighting the R &amp; D entrepreneurship activities of higher education and laying down specific provisions in this context, taking this into account in the proposal. The objective pursued can be fully achieved if the activities falling within the scope of the R &amp; D entrepreneurship activity are reorganised from companies in parallel, and the creation and acquisition of a new company for this purpose is prohibited. The draft also sets a time limit for the prohibition of carrying out the activities of higher education R &amp; D enterprises in an institutional company, so that this activity should be carried out by 31 December 2020 at the latest or the participation of the public higher education institution should be terminated in that company. The proposal sets out the scope of activities and lays down rules for exceptions to them. The main elements of this are: the source of the revenue of the R &amp; D business activity can only be external, market order; the RFI activity has a separate payment account with a State Treasury, receives its revenue on this account, meets its expenditure; the RDI business activity is accounted for separately from its core activities and its business activities in both the budgetary and financial accounts; the balance of the RFI's business activity shall be allocated to the financing of the basic activity of education, scientific research and artistic creative activity. As a very short introduction, I would like to say this and ask your support for the adoption of the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-19-154	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the presentation. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-19-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the Secretary of State has indicated, we are talking about a number of legislative changes. This affects the law on the status of civil servants and affects a number of sections and paragraphs of the Public Education and Higher Education Act. The proposed proposal begins with the amendment of the Act on the Status of Civil Servants, and allow me, by the way, to give some numbers, which, I think, speaks for itself and justifies why this was necessary. This relates essentially to the question of salaries. Today, by introducing the pedagogical career system in public education, it can be said that a perspective career could be offered to teachers, which, by the way, resulted in a number of students from the university world having an attractive teaching career, which, of course, is not a problem, only on the other side of higher education there is some danger in terms of replacement, since a starting teacher's salary is now 182 294 forints, as far as I know, the doctoral scholarship starts at the moment with HUF 100 thousand, and the teacher's assistant has a salary of HUF 161 800 per moment, an assistant is now with a salary of 218 700 forints, while in PED 1, it is now possible to obtain a HUF 218 752 thousand salary after three years. At the same time, while a person can move on from the position of assistant professor, it can mean 10-15 years, so obviously from this point of view he had to touch some of the guaranteed salaries. However, in order to resolve this in the form of a mandate, it is fully justified that the scope of benefits in higher education is not the same as that guaranteed. The guaranteed salary represents the lower limit, but much earlier legislative amendments made it possible, in this respect, for higher education institutions, if they have a source and other reasons clearly support this, to deviate from this, fundamentally upwards. In other words, increasing the guaranteed salary does not mean that it automatically applies to everyone, where there is already a shifted wage in this sense, obviously creates a different situation. The amendment to the law on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas, I think, is a technical amendment that can be fundamentally agreed with, and can be said calmly, with common sense, that where criminal proceedings are under way, this must obviously be suspended. I think that the reason why no one has thought this through before in terms of legislation is because it has not occurred to them that this should not be done in such a case. But unfortunately, the development of continental law has evolved over a long, long period of time so that what is not described is, in principle, free, so we are forced to describe things that, on the basis of common sense, would naturally follow. The law on national public education is also basically a matter of technical amendments which can only be agreed once again. What is new in this, and if you like, forward-looking, is to lay down the necessary legal rules for issuing student IDs and teacher IDs as electronic cards. This, if I may put it this way, is adapted to the requirement of age. Obviously, substantial changes are made in the legal field of national higher education. The objectives and reasons for this, Mr. Secretary of State, has spoken about it. I think this is acceptable again by everyone, all the more so, because when we talked about this particular strategy, we discussed it, even at Commission level, I can say that, regardless of the parties, there has been a consensus among the general public, and that is what the specific legislative changes that are supposed to serve this strategy are presented in a tailored manner. This is partly linked to certain restructuring issues, organisational changes, which take place in the restructuring, merger or even change of name of certain institutions. These are described in detail by the law, and I think it is okay. The clause on the Senate is appropriate and correct because in this respect, the previous regulation did not make clear exactly who the members of the Senate of their own motion were. There were institutions where this meant a narrow circle, there were institutions where there were quite a wide circle, even deans automatically, not anywhere else. This now makes it clear and clear that the Senate is the leading body of universities, higher education institutions, where elected members sit, and there are essentially only two heads of the university responsible for the academic and the operation of the university. The statement that democratic principles must be ensured during the election, given the proportional representation of full-time teachers, researchers and teachers, is obviously good and correct, but at the same time I would like to draw attention to the fact that it will be its maintenance responsibility, so it does not require legislation. Two possible anomalies may occur on the side of this, which will obviously have to be eliminated in the text on one side, and on the other hand, when approving or commenting on the text, the maintainer will have to pay attention. One version is what Mr Secretary of State said that certain large-scale arms may not be disadvantaged by the small arms, but it may also be true that a large arm cannot settle on an entire institution, and in this sense it should not have exclusive dominance. This is clearly possible and must be regulated in the text so that this kind of golden middle path remains in every way. At the same time, it is not simple, because the Higher Education Act is, in this respect, a little, if you may put it that way, a conservative logic, since it is necessary to be proportionate representation not only in relation to the relationship between the faculties, but also in relation to those employed there, as well as in relation to students and employees. It's possible, I don't dispute it, but it's going to take a lot of attention from the maintenance point of view. [[20.00]] I think that the transformation of doctoral education is particularly welcome, even because if we look at the statistics on how the proportion of students enrolled in the doctoral programme, who later reached the end, we get rather sad statistics. At present, 85 percent of the scholarship students can be said to have more or less completed the course, 50 percent of them are doing the doctoral discipline, so we have a significant dropout, and by the time we get to the point of getting a doctoral degree, this level will be reduced to 23-25 percent. At the same time, there are quite serious financial aspects to this. So doctoral training is not cheap, it costs a lot of money, and it is not possible to have such a high default rate. From this point of view, I think it is to be welcomed that on one side there is an attempt to improve quality, which prolongs training and puts into the system a serious mid-term test. I see the essence of this challenge in the fact that the institution operating the doctoral school increases its professional responsibilities and higher its responsibilities. It clarifies the professional responsibility of the topic leaders, who need to be able to say at halftime that students who, if allowed to put it that way, are found weak at halftime should not take doctoral courses. This is also linked to a natural sanction in the law, which states that if, in the case of students going on after the complex exam in the mid-term, what we would like to avoid is that they do not comply with the things expected at the end of the fee, this can be seen in a reduction in the amount of aid at the institution. Here I think the part that needs to be made a little more clear is that this concerns support from the complex exam, not the entire four-year doctoral course, because there may be some anomaly there. You can understand the current text a little bit, you can understand it a little bit. On the other hand, the fact that there is a scholarship increase in doctoral students on one side, and, of course, there is a one-time incentive for successful grades. And by the way of the complex exam, I think the best solution is that you really need to install it professionally where it belongs, to refer it to the responsibilities of the Hungarian Doctoral Council to develop the appropriate content of this for each doctoral school. Obviously, this cannot be regulated by law. It should be approved that, on the basis of dual training, the bill clarifies that the student is entitled to remuneration here, and regulates the extent of it. It creates a clear and clear picture and a situation in this regard. I also believe that clarification of the rules on Master's and final examination and the attempt or intention to resolve certain anomalies are particularly appropriate, as is the case with regard to R &amp; D entrepreneurship. This is typically the subject of which, in part, the Court of Auditors' reports have repeatedly stated that, in essence, the financial regulatory system, management, control mechanisms of universities, and so on, they have not been able to respond to the challenges that research and development entrepreneurship would require. There were previous experiments, and they went in the wrong direction. Bálint Magyar, we remember who said that universities are of age and that all wealth management should be completely free. There, however, there was always a risk that budgetary support for basic tasks might go in a different direction, which may not be lucky. The current regulation clearly and clearly seeks to separate the funds from the budget to be allocated to the basic activities and clearly defines what constitutes research and development, business activities and also clearly states that this cannot come from budgetary resources. I think it's okay, and I think it's okay that you have to keep one in a separate account, one in a separate account, so that you don't accidentally mix. In this sense, be transparent and transparent, if you can put it this way. I think that these changes are appropriate, and I can only say that they are worthy of support. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be delivered by Vice-President István Hiller, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. I give you the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-11-19-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! I would like to argue with several points of the bill before us; in the concept of debate, including that where I agree, I will stress it, and where I have a critical comment, I will even more highlight it. Let's start with the doctoral schools, the doctoral school thing. The extension of training time in the proposal is, in my view, right and good. At the same time, the fact that he splits into two parts, the four years, the doctoral period twice for two years, seems too mechanical to me. PhD students are adult thinkers who know their talents and wish to show them at a higher level. They obviously have the desire for a higher level of knowledge, but there is also the ambition of research. This four-year period is completely mechanically separated, the first half of which seems to be an even higher level of university education, and the second part of it is research itself, and I find it unviable. I don't think a law has to be regulated that much. Let us trust more in the leaders and professors of doctoral schools, who can determine and say that in the specific case of a student... - because the point here is that the future generation of Hungarian researchers and teachers is raised, here all general subjects are wrong, and individualised ideas are the right thing to do. This can not be guaranteed by the nature of a law. The law should set limits as much as it provides room for manoeuvre, and when it reduces the leeway, when it oversteps the professional opportunities of a head of a doctoral school, a senior professor, I think that is a mistake. So while I agree with the extended training time, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to consider whether this should be so mechanized at the legal level, with the power of the paragraph. I would like to clarify one thing, and this is the issue of exodus, which is an existing and very important problem. I read 31. However, I would rather quote that there should not be a semantic disagreement, point 4 says:. The amount of the training allowance paid to the higher education institution may be reduced by half of the amount of training support provided for the student in the course of the course of the doctoral course if the student of the higher education institution does not obtain a doctoral degree. In a little translation into Hungarian, I feel that he wishes to solve the dropout as a problem by giving the institution or doctoral school a kind of discipline, that is, if your student does not finish, in Hungarian, he will not complete the entire doctoral school, then you are responsible for this, and that is why we are punishing you so that we can withdraw half of the amount of training support from you. [[20.10]] I think it's bad pedagogy. It can be done, and it can be produced, but the response to this situation is quite clear: this will cause a drop in standards at doctoral schools, because the doctoral school says that he doesn't want to lose the money, and then he'll be a fool to risk 50 percent of the state's training support, so I'll put the student in the system even more, you don't have to do that, because the point is to get the money after you. Please, think about this. I think it is easy to imagine that the intention is indeed the right thing to do, which is to reduce a very significant proportion of drop-off, but this will reduce not the training itself, but the level of training. I don't recommend this trip. I would particularly like to talk about an important issue that occurs here, namely cooperation between higher education institutions and external institutions, the possibility of a business. This is a thought that comes up from time to time, every half a decade at every government, when we were on the government, we also took steps in this, the steps that you threw out of the window in 2010 and 2011 with the law, and now a few years later... - otherwise I think rationally, because the problem is that you cut our idea out, it's there. It is about how to co-operate with higher education institutions in Hungary and education institutions, but in a similar way research institutions, companies, businesses, which would have the original idea that Hungarian higher education brings knowledge, the professional experience that is truly outstanding in certain areas, is suitable for business in certain areas, and in some ways brings financial resources to this joint venture. I would like to ask the Secretary of State - that we and I can take a final stand in this - to clarify a question that is essential in practical implementation, namely whether the institution of higher education, or a certain part of its institution, can bring the assets obtained from public revenue into the service, because please, I do not think this is entirely clear in the text, and this is a very important matter. It must be our common goal that, as appropriate, the investment made by State aid, which we have put in a state higher education institution, should not be carried out and not serve other business purposes. Clearly, it is in our interest that the Hungarian state and its institution manage best. Obviously, in addition to knowledge, cooperation requires some other infrastructure, so I would like to ask, once again, whether the assets obtained from public revenue can be included in the service. I would therefore not wish to say positive or negative about this right now, but I am asking, and obviously the Secretary of State has a way of clarifying this. I see the issue of the classification of institutions as problematic, and I do not think that the problem has been solved by creating new categories. This was also the case in earlier plans, where the practice of other areas, the example of Canadian, North American higher education and specific institutions were sought, was rejected. I don't think that changing the name or sign of an institution, if any, of a college, will create quality, and now it will be written "University" on it. I think that we should define the categories precisely, and we do not need to invent them over and over again or come up with new ideas in this regard, which is otherwise clarified. I think there was a strong consensus on which institution to call a university in Hungary, and I do not think that this should be changed. By the way, the fact that in some cases there is a university title given to colleges offering highly high-quality training may be a prestigious issue for many, but the fact that the leader can wear a rector's chain in itself and that the board will not be written down as a college, but as a university, has not yet changed the internal content. Therefore, I do not consider this to be a convincing argument, and I do not consider it innovative. Finally, let us talk about the issue of doctoral scholarships and institutional management, because I see this as the most problematic in this law and the whole environment, or if I do not want to be so subtle, then I think there has been a mistake here. Here, originally, the idea, which is trying to create slightly better financial, financial conditions for some of the higher education institutions, ran to the contrary, and I think there is more commotion than before the first announcement. You have set the prospect of a significant amount of money compared to the size of higher education, and with this substantial amount you have bought yourself a significant outrage on the whole of higher education, because it is not good what you are proposing. Although I think we are all aware of the details here, and it is not my job to give this lecture, in short, it was the story that a certain amount of increases were envisaged for teachers and adjutants, but this would have been so much higher for academic scholarships or, if you liked, for PhD Scholarships - after all, they were students - that the amount of student scholarships would have exceeded the salary of the teachers and would have been virtually equal or similar to the salary of the advisors. Well, let's face it, it's a flawed idea with all the good intentions. It cannot be done that a PhD student from the state receives more money in a scholarship than a PhD student coordinating his work, even though he doesn't have the main experience, but he is already a beginner instructor, researcher, teaching assistant or assistant assistant. On the one hand, this is completely unfair, in other respects it does not serve any purpose in the burning world. If they wanted young people to be more inspired - approximately younger within the university chorus - then I would like to say in advance that this did not inspire inspiration, but an outrage and protest within the institutions. As it should be said, the only reason I don't mention to the public what hundreds of teachers of the Faculty of Humanities of the Eötvös Loránd University have signed is because my work is actually there, these are my teachers and colleagues, with whom we started, or the younger ones we have taught. [[20.20]] Please let me just say that every word you've written is true. Therefore, I would like to quote another text, which has not yet been made public, who say the following about this provision. If you are an excellent PhD student, we offer him a career in university with the short message that you are old, your salary will now be five to six years lower than your scholarship than when you were a PhD student, but if you work well, you can reach their level, and as an assistant, you can lead them on the topic. This has been achieved. I respectfully ask you to consider this because, in this form, we will not be able to support this law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-19-158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the group of the KDNP Group, Ms Rózsa Hoffmann, will be here to speak.
u2015-11-19-159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Quarter past nine minutes, it is quite late, and we have been sitting here in this Chamber for quite a long time, so that I have decided not to comment on every subject of the law, all the more so because the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the amendment, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Parliament to a few important points. I also do not deal with the parts amending public education; the use of student IDs and teacher IDs as electronic cards is justified and logical. The first topic that would be affected is the fee for students participating in dual training. I was very pleased that we finally got to this point, that this important issue is regulated by the law, because it is a part of dual training without which it would be doomed to failure. Obviously, life will decide how perfect the regulation is; it looks good in any case, supported by KDNP.But I would like to draw attention here to an important point. In our opinion, the fifth and sixth years of training for teachers are dual training, as students will do the exercises, and they will also learn. Therefore, I respectfully ask the government not to forget to regulate this matter very soon, because in two years' time, the teachers' candidates for new undivided training will be there to get into this practical year, which we do not call dual training, but it would be a good idea to name it and share it in resources between university, college and training places. This almost unprecedented internship year in teacher training is a topic that needs to be considered, and it affects both public education and the university and college side, not only raises financing and legal regulatory issues. Obviously, it will be difficult, but it can be solved, so I would like to ask that this work should start, or at least we should be aware of it, because I see it myself, or I don't know if the government has thought about it. But this part, like the whole law, is very welcome. We also support the drafts for the restructuring of the structure. All of this proves that looking back to a good 15 years, the university, the whole higher education, is a living organization that is constantly changing, and that it appears from time to time to adapt to the needs of the age, to international trends. Good half a century ago, higher education was a rigid, static structure, and since then it has undergone a lot of changes. I and KDNP welcome the autonomy of the University of Veterinary Science and support the establishment of universities of applied sciences in Kecskemét and Gyöngyös-Eger, Eger, of course. I read in the explanation that the renaming of these former colleges into university, as the Member before me said, is also important because the word "university" attracts the international audience more and is an important aim of higher education governance, so that foreign students come to Hungarian universities as much as possible. That's true, I accept that's a very strong argument. But I share the opinion that just because it's going to be a university, it's not certain whether it's raising or increasing standards. What Congressman Pósán said in his speech is extremely meaty, so that university instructors can feel their responsibility at each exam, each in-house evaluation, because whether they consider the knowledge of students sufficient or not, will determine the quality of the intellectuals of the future. In the same way, setting and raising the input requirements can also serve to raise the quality, quality and the university's novelty. I would like to draw attention here to a double speech that may not be conscious, but we often encounter it, hearing the words of the various public figures who have revealed higher education. I am not convinced that the changes to the language exam serve to be demanding. On the other hand, I understand that this is a problem that we have been pushing ahead of us for decades, and the lack of a language exam is a well-known result of the fact that we cannot give degrees in the order of tens of thousands, or that young people could not pass from initial education to master's education. I would just like to refer to our responsibility to say that we, who are making and adopting the law, are responsible for how higher education's high quality, its demandingness, will increase. And no one, to my knowledge, disputes that the Hungarian intellectuals of the future must possess foreign languages. Not only is it approximate, because the secondary language exam we want is only approximate language skills, but much better. Therefore, it would be time to go beyond this pseudonymous, pseudo-humanistic system of considerations and say round pretzel that, except for those who have a disability of ability that has been proven medically incapable of learning a foreign language at an acceptable level, yes, the condition of a higher education degree is that it is on the entry side, as the Higher Education Act directs - if I remember correctly, from 2020 or 21 - the language exam. And I warned the Parliament of all times not to make the mistake of appeaseing this law out of false humor, out of pity. This can now be seen as a temporary amendment in this respect, which will help certain layers, because from 2020 onwards this problem will not arise. It is clear that the new rules on doctoral training are in my view to be useful for demanding. It can be done, and certainly the Secretary of State himself and his apparatus have been arguing for weeks and months with various professional and other organisations about which is the best solution, and I believe that they have found the best one. The three previous regulations, as we can see, have resulted in a doctoral title compared to the initial number, if I recall correctly, reaching 25 percent. This alone shows that huge money has gone to waste, energy has gone to waste. Although these young people, who have completed a year or two and have not reached the doctoral title, their knowledge has increased, but the only and decorated goal of doctoral training is to ensure the scientific supply that is the engine of the country's spiritual development, and thus indirectly the engine of its economic development. Therefore, we cannot be lenient here, that we have educated an iks student in doctoral school, that they receive a high scholarship - let's be honest, the 100 thousand forints were not low, which is suggested by the current bill, even higher. [[20.30]] So they are well-dotted by the state, appreciated, expected, unless human tragedies, a change in the situation of life that justifies it, then get the title. The reason I approve of this 2 + 2 solution is because it makes it possible, after the second year, to see that it will not be able to write and defend its dissertation on its own, at least it will fall out of this training and those who remain in it are more likely to obtain it. Although the law doesn't affect it, it didn't even have to touch it, I would just like to draw attention here too, we should have a much bigger look at how to prepare doctoral dissertations, to detect possible frauds in this regard. However, young doctoral students should be helped in every way, and they should be given the opportunity to participate as soon as possible in the scientific circulation in which all of us, who may have attended university, may have even taught, as I myself, every time we bathe a little, we lub in the environment that young spiritual workers prove. Well, this is closely linked to the next topic and to the subject I mentioned last, this is the wage arrangement of university teachers, because if this happens, to the extent that the draft suggests, higher education and higher education management will also avoid the anomaly that the Member before me has outlined. I don't quote the numbers here, but a teacher's assistant's salary will be higher than that of a doctoral student, and it should be added that according to doctoral regulations, doctoral training is not for teachers and assistant professors, but for professors and professors. If there is a university that puts its teachers' assistants there, then it has to be punished, it has to be checked. Control is a bit of a weakness in higher education. I also went through the SAO's report, which is about funding and financial management, but this also shows that the internal audit of universities needs to be strengthened, and that sectoral management must also pay attention, and that every decision we make to see that doctoral education is a transition to higher education and science, if we fail there, if we are indulgent there, then we are making a big mistake. But we are also making a big mistake if we are lenient about how the exams and the various reports are evaluated. Dear fellow Members, I, too, am and have been a university instructor, although I do not practice this profession right now, but I remember very well that my fellow instructors were almost proud that I never failed. It's a very sympathetic human trait, and I'm not saying it's a failure, but anyone with insufficient knowledge must give and repeat it. I also boasted that very little, very few listeners, I loved to give an "A," but I would give an "A" to the one who has the right knowledge, so it's worth paying attention to. After all, this wage increase, which the government has set out here, compensates quite well for the damage that was known to the public, but I also see in it the sign that our government, as it runs from its power, is trying to replace every layer of what it has not been able to do in the last decade, because the country was on the brink of economic, financial ruin. We have now begun the wage increases, we have discussed here, or five hours ago, the social laws that include the higher-level daycare workers in the pedagogical career, and now we are finally seeing a raise in the wages of university teachers. With all my heart, Mr. Secretary, I wish you and the entire government that this process will never stop. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-160	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-19-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It's not about the money, it's about the game. That's what Michael Douglas says in the movie Exchange Sharks, and that's what I thought about when I looked at the clowning that has been going on in the last few weeks about higher education wage increases. On 5 November, two weeks ago, Minister Zoltán Balog and Secretary of State László Palkovics announced: the cost of settling the pay table for three years is HUF 15.2 billion, which is entirely borne by the budget. According to October 2015, nearly 15,000 instructors, including 1,800 researchers, are affected by wage settlement. According to a presentation by the Secretary of State, the wages of university teachers will be HUF 437 300 in 2015, which will increase to HUF 503,000 in January next year, to HUF 528 thousand in January 2017, and will reach HUF 554 thousand in 2018. Then he explained how the pay table would change accordingly. However, the guaranteed salary of university teachers is regulated by the Budget Act, which is not opened by this bill, so the salary of university teachers does not change to HUF 503,000 or to any other extent. Article 2 Paragraph 1 of this Article includes an authorisation provision, which does not have any justification, to be more precise, there is formality, of course, to comply with the house rules, there is an explanation, a sentence: the provision contains an authorisation provision. More Hungarian than that, it's only the 3rd. The reason for this was successful, which doesn't make any sense, but now, in parentheses, the Minister of State may also see that the Minister can lay down the degree and the rules for granting an income supplement in a regulation, which is no guarantee for the future for people working as teachers and researchers in higher education. This press conference was therefore held on 5 November, where this increase was announced, and by the way, when this proposal was sent for social consultation, it did not include the Kjt. amendment, so it was added to the government's website in such a way that this part was not known at all. I believe that if this does not happen, so that the amendment of the budget law will not take place, and it will not take place on 1 January 2016, then we cannot see a guarantee that what has been announced as an increase by Minister and Secretary of State on 5 November will indeed take place. This is a huge mistake, and I would like to turn on the increase in the PhD scholarship, which is obviously an advance, and here I do not agree with Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, who said that the HUF 100,000 was not a low PhD scholarship. I think it was extremely low, given the fact that a well-qualified graduate in Hungary today can earn around 2.5 times the average amount of this in the competitive sphere or in the labour market, so it was extremely low motivation to stay at the university and start doctoral studies. I think the 12th is very important. Section 5 which amends the principles and that the economic and social role of a higher education institution in the region will be included. I cannot win here... - Commissioner Secretary of State knows that I will speak again about Ozd, and I would like to ask once again Mr Secretary of State to pay particular attention to this, because it is an area in which it is particularly important for higher education to start in the daytime system. Turning to doctoral training in short, it would be good to clarify, first and foremost, the use of terms. So doctoral students are also included as PhD students, as students, and as PhD students, which is also the provision of the interpreter to PhD students. So it is not visible at all that the use of the term is uniform, and even the concept of doctoral students is now included in the interpretation provisions, but there is a legal place where the word doctoral students are explicitly replaced with the word "doctoral students," even though only the doctoral students are subject to that provision. [[20.40]] A document has already been leaked from the EMMI, which refers to the use of different words and banning words; we hope that is not the case here, but simply to unification. I think that the separation of doctoral training can be effective, so that two plus two years will determine the structure of this training, I think that it can work well, but to motivate an institution that has a financial interest in obtaining the degree of doctoral or doctoral students, because otherwise it will fall from budgetary resources afterwards, I do not think it is right. This will not encourage the institutions to be honest, so let's put it this way, so it will not be a matter of judging the knowledge of the doctoral student, and of whether he deserves to be at the level of merit, but also of the fact that budgetary resources may depend on whether a given doctoral student acquires the degree. Raising this aspect and making it a priority, I do not think it is right, and I think that it will in no way be good for the quality. With regard to R &amp; D activities, both Mr State Secretary and Mr Pósán also talked about how this would be transparent and separated, so that the boundaries which, in the case of the institutions, will be clearly visible for the basic activities of public sources and for the R &amp; D activity will be clearly seen. Congressman Pósán mentioned that it would not be possible for them to use public funds for basic activity. I understand that in many institutions it is precisely the reverse, so it makes sense and it also promotes transparency and the interest of the institutions in R &amp; D activities, if the financing of the basic activities is otherwise resolved. Thus, in many institutions, for example because of low wages, R &amp; D has often been used as a quasi-income supplement to enable them to compete in some way with the competitive payments I have mentioned, up to two and a half times as large. So it is good that if we separate this, it is only important that it is also fully ensured that the basic activity is financed, because so far it has been reversed. Therefore, resources had to be allocated to the core activity that could or should have been used for something else. One more word question I need to address is a matter of college or college. It will be an interesting situation when an institution called a university, such as college counselors, will teach classes or college professors at a university. This is a strange situation in itself, but the clear use of concepts and the fact that both people and students know what it is we call a university, and what criteria it has, what we call a college, and what criteria it has, is good to keep it against any lobbying interests. I think it would be much more effective if we called college college, university as a university, as there are villages and there are cities. People know what these mean, although the borders are flexible, and I know that the law lists the criteria that must be met to call an institution a university, but here I think that we are deceiving people with these institution names, because they will not necessarily, and in fact, from the renaming of the institution alone, they will not provide higher quality training for each institution than they did as a college. And it is possible, in fact, that a strong college is worth more than a weak university, and that should be taken into account in the use of words. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, which I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State, on the one hand, the legislator's intention, because, in my understanding, here in the section on the exercise of the rights of the Rector and the Chancellor's employer, there is no clear regulation or I presume that they did not want to put into it what was eventually written in it; This is about Section 3. Article 17 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 13 refers to Article 13 (1) (a) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) Article 13)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) Article 13) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) § 2 where the rector's employer's rights are listed, and Article 13/A. § 2 also, where the chancellor's employer's rights are listed, and according to this paragraph, these two are merged according to the text and give joint employer's rights to the rector and the chancellor. I do not know if this was the intention of the legislator, but if we interpret this sentence in grammatical terms, this is what is happening here. Article 13 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. § 2 and 13/A. The rules governing the exercise of employer's rights pursuant to point (e) of paragraph 2 of this Article shall be laid down by the Rector and the Chancellor. So because of the relationship, this means that the employer's rights are unified here, and now the rector and the chancellor are working together. I assume that was not the intention of the legislator, but this must be improved in grammatical terms. Overall, what I can say about the bill is that we do not see at all the guarantees of the wage increase considered to be the most important, we do not see the creation of budgetary resources at all, and by five years, and even if we are talking about 1 January 2016, we would urgently need a high level of wage increase in higher education almost six years after the 2010 government change. This is not possible or guaranteed by this law, and although there are many aspects of forward-looking changes, both in the case of doctoral schooling and in the extension of the principles, there are several points that we cannot agree with. I would ask you to support our amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-19-162	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have the first independent Member to come forward. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go.
u2015-11-19-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Here at a little late hour, I welcome you all to the meeting of the Cultural Committee. Here we are again, as in every session, amending the laws on the subject of education, although it should be added that we are talking about higher education in substance, as we could see in the debate, and indeed here, as we are talking about the inclusion of the details of the previously developed higher education strategy in the law, as we have already heard from the secretary of state in the rapporteur's speech. By the way, I don't usually praise the government very often, but it certainly deserves the compliments of the Secretary of State, which he went through, has a strategy, and tries to adapt to it. I do not recall that we were so, but very, very much in agreement with each of its details; perhaps we were left in the committee meeting with something that we were very pleased to have such a higher education strategy, to agree with the basic objectives, and to agree on the detailed rules when we were put into law, we were going to debate, and we are actually having this debate. By the way, I would very much like to have such a strategy in the field of public education, and we would continue such debates there, but this does not belong, of course, to the Secretary of State, so this was not for you. And then I would like to mention a few things in connection with the amendment of the law on higher education. I have some suggestions, some insights, which I think you should consider, and some things I would like to say, which can be heard from professionals in connection with this law. On the one hand, as far as the regulation of PhD training is concerned, it has actually been requested by the profession for quite a long time as I know it, and as far as my friends and friends have informed me, the fact that training time is extended is, in itself, to be supported and supported in this respect. As a former PhD student, I would say that otherwise it wouldn't have hurt anyone. It is now possible to argue where to put this particular exam, which now triggers doctoral discipline, I think it is a matter of taste. For example, I would think that a complex examination, which is a study of textbook knowledge and research, would want to measure knowledge derived from its own research in some way, and then evaluate this through some qualification grade or rating system, would be better to end it than at the beginning, but it is a taste question. If this is the deal with the Rectors, then it will obviously be introduced; I think that the practice will decide in a few years how well this worked or how badly it didn't. [[20.50]] I've already got a bit of a grudge there, or I have some doubts as to whether doctoral training can be passed so quickly. In fact, normally, this would look like a first two-year course, then an exam, and then it has three years to acquire the degree of deliquence, with the certain two deferrals that the Secretary of State has mentioned, but obviously it has to be applied for, and in the second case it has to refer to a particularly reasonable reason, but if you think of the normal case, this actually means five years. I'd suggest you take this a little more freely. I don't think you have to really, really raise it, but when you think for six years, it gives you a much greater freedom, and I say that because there are scientific peculiarities. So in the case of social sciences, for example, it will be very difficult to observe these five years, especially because, in the case of many disciplines, the importance of international relations is becoming more and more appreciated, it is necessary to go out, stay there for a longer period of time, to get to know the members of the editorial board and the presidents, because only if you get to know them in person for the first time, and it is a slow, lengthy process. There are disciplines where it can really be played quickly, there are disciplines where I think it's a little bit small. I'd consider that. As to the proportion of students who are dropping out of school and the proportion of students who are dropping out of school, let's just say that they are punishing universities, and I can tell you that I don't really understand this 80 percent dropout rate, which has been mentioned here several times; I think there might be a methodological problem here, it's too high a rate, I'll tell you frankly, I haven't seen it yet. In addition, it is a little mixed here, because in the case of scholarship students there is a very high proportion of those who do it, here are the correspondence students, let's put it in a quotation sign, it is the expenses students, where they are more typical of a large or larger rate of dropout, but I consider 80 percent to be a bit too much. But let's put this in parentheses. The question here is whether it is possible to solve this by virtually punishing the university, because I say that this is the responsibility of the head of the doctoral school and the head of the thesis. But let's be honest, this is more up to the listener, and it is not just about how hard he is to do it, there are certain situations in life that can change, for example, people's faith in the future and their future ideas. In addition, those of us sitting here in this room, we are mostly just those who have spent half our lives at university or even more, so we know very well how a normal institution reacts to a decision of this type: trying to kick everyone through the end of the process so that they don't lose the money halfway. From an incentive point of view, I think it's much better that if we were supposed to say that the lower the dropout, then they get a bonus, it usually works better. Unfortunately, we are talking about mammoth institutions that react automatically, and we have experienced this in higher education several times, that these types of penalties have never worked anyway. With regard to new universities, it has been said here, I think everything, I wouldn't say that. All I would add to this is that, by the way, this is why I tabled an amendment to the previous amendment to the law that would have made the definition of the university of applied sciences a little more stringent, so that now - because I knew it would come up later - I could say that I already said that I think that the fact that certain colleges, which are not universities at all, are called universities is exactly the same problem as the renaming of vocational secondary schools into vocational school, that it will be a high school on paper, only that it is not a high school; it is the same thing. This is going to be such a very difficult case at the end, and the market is going to price these institutions, the degree of those so-called universities will be worth less in the market, we know that, and senior high school students and graduates will know exactly which university is the real university and which university is not the university. I think it's going to cause a lot of discomfort, because it's going to be an ongoing debate, and then the colleagues are going to be pissing each other off that you're not even a real university, even though it says on your business card that you are. I don't think that's a very good direction, but that's decided, and they're gonna do it, and we have no say in this anymore. As far as entrepreneurial activity is concerned, it is indeed very important that universities become increasingly involved in this. This was also an old debate in higher education institutions: at first the universities themselves were a little drawn, of course, and then some universities began to ask that their regulation be developed properly. Of course, we know very well that, as was said here earlier, István Hiller also referred to this, on what basis can a university undertake? He has a human resource, that there are scientists, researchers, on the other hand, he has a research infrastructure, labs and other instruments, equipment. Now, this is where the first problem begins, that there was a case in the past where the university leaders got it so they wouldn't mess around with those state-funded labs and all kinds of government-funded equipment. I am very pleased that now it seems to be completely restored, and now you are telling them to do business, because we should also get revenue from the market, but this is obviously a matter to be clarified, which István Hiller also raised. Indeed, it is a good question of how it can be determined exactly how, if these instruments, which have been purchased primarily from state resources, are used by universities for business purposes, it is now what we consider to be. So the wording is unclear, and then it can only be problematic, because obviously we can interpret it in one way, but if, let's say, your successor might interpret it differently, then the universities may be a little bit in need in this area. So maybe that's something that should be clarified. As far as the wage increase is concerned, it was no accident to hear that in recent days there has been quite a surge. Although I am not a BTK, I am an TTK at the ELTE, but of course I have received this letter before, which was then published, and I will also speak to colleagues for that, although I have become a Member of Parliament. This will cause wage tension. And in order to avoid any misunderstanding, it would obviously be very simple, such a populist solution if I said that twice as much should be raised, and then it's okay, only then would the Secretary of State be right to ask you, but from what. So I'd say that the way to solve this issue is probably to intervene right now, and I see that they're stuck, and whatever source they have, they're trying to shovel together, and they're trying to get the chancellors to do it, so that whatever they find at the university, they can sweep it up and try to use it for these purposes, but you probably have to say something in the longer term about what the exit is. So the fact that I now add 15 plus 5 plus 5 percent and get to the end of it in three years, is that it really is an assistant and a second-cycle doctorate who spends the extra second year and has a fellowship of HUF 180,000, almost the same income, that's really not normal. So it could probably be a solution if you start thinking about it now and you make it public that it's good, but what's going to be the fourth and fifth and sixth years, and how you can bring this wage to a level that doesn't involve this kind of confusion in the system. And I'm telling you, I'm not intentionally talking about how much the assistant professors are making now in Austria and Germany, because I'm sure we won't get any closer to the solution, because there will never be a salary in Hungary. [[21.00]] So to sum up, I thought about the changes in higher education, a little longer than I had planned. I'm telling you, I've tabled a specific amendment so that after the complex exam, it's not three years, but four years for the doctoral students to submit the dissertation and protect it. As regards the public education part of this legislative package, it is, on the one hand, educators' IDs and student IDs. It's actually a technical transfer, and in that sense, you can't really object, you say that, of course, it's okay, you have to do this, you have to transfer it. I wouldn't say anything more particularly. We also found one interesting thing about the amendment of the law, about the regulation of the Commissioner for Educational Rights. The current law now states that the duties and operating rules of the office of the Commissioner for Educational Rights are determined by the Minister, and the amendment extends a little beyond that, so that the head of the Office is also transferred to the Minister's authority to manage his activities. Obviously, I think it's a bit of an exaggeration, a little bit of a sense of freedom for the Commissioner of Education at some level. I understand that it's not literally written, it's the only thing that makes you feel that way. Therefore, for my part, I do not support this part, and the Joint will not support these little things, which are included in the legislative change package. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-19-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Member László Pósán, Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-19-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to doctoral training, Mr Hiller said that if funds are taken away from the institutions, there will be a fall in the standards of doctoral schools, because the institutions will be interested in pushing everyone. Szabolcs Szabó said that it would be better to take bonuses to reduce low dropout. I note that the result would be the same here, because then everyone will be interested in getting the bonus, and then the same thing that Congressman Hiller said would happen. But how it is not so: let me remind you that dissertation must be judged by outsiders, it is a public debate about the protection of the dissertation. Technically, external controls should still work. By the way, it's working, which is why there's a big dropout, because they're starting, and it turns out they're not gonna be able to do it in the end. The goal here would be to be able to fulfill it. That this exam is in the right place or not in the right place: I think it is in the right place, because if you look at the sections, it is not mechanically divided into two parts, but there is also content and continuity in the name: the first stage is training and research, and the other section is research and dissertation. The second point that Mrs Dóra Dúró made, namely that college professors teach at universities and vice versa, back and forth, is that this looks so mixed. I would just like to remind you that, for example, teacher training has four years and five years of teaching, precisely because of that. It is also necessary to decide whether one or another of its majors will be chosen in the five-year undivided course, precisely because university education can be taught in high school, and requires a completely different methodology. In this sense, we should not be surprised that there are quasi-college training levels. I have another comment on wages: the PhD scholarship approaches the teachers' assistants. I would like to point out that the doctoral title is mandatory from the point of view that it does not change.
u2015-11-19-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó, an independent representative. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-19-167	Thank you very much for the floor. I would just like to respond to this last sentence that the doctorate's title is mandatory from the assistant. But most of the university's internal rules are, by the way, now they expect you to be a teacher's assistant. It doesn't require anything, but that's how universities regulate it. That's the difference between a university and a university of applied science, isn't it? Because that's the inner logic of their operation. Thank you.
u2015-11-19-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-11-19-169	Mr President, Congresswoman and Lords! Thank you for your feedback. I like these late-night debates because, in part, we are few, and those who are here are obviously, as Mr President said, professionals, and we can have debates here which are probably not of a political nature, but of a purely professional nature. And it seems to me that there are so many debates between us, that I was happy with the comments, although there may be differences in approaches, there are also political differences, but basically we were not discussing the essence of higher education transformations, but perhaps some details of their implementation. I would like to go through it briefly, not according to speakers, but rather according to the subject areas. Let's start with the doctorate. In the field of doctoral training, I would have a relatively simple situation, I could say that this proposal, which was published in the law - and this includes a detailed concept - was created by a working committee, in which all stakeholders were involved, the Hungarian Rector's Conference, included the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, included the DOSZ - he was one of the main actors of the committee - and the National Doctoral Council was involved, so everyone was involved. And what is described here is their suggestion. So it wasn't the Ministry's proposal, it was their proposal. And I could close the deal with that, but after we're really talking business, so I think I'd tell you what made it that way. First of all, your understanding of how many people are doing or what this whole doctoral program looks like. It also appears in the press that the Secretary of State does not know the numbers, because 23-25 percent says that this percentage of those enrolled in doctoral schools will gain a degree at the end, although the statistics of the Hungarian Doctoral Council show quite different. As you said in your question, you are absolutely right, this could also be a question of interpretation; the question is what we want to achieve. If we look at it - and we now have data and we have very good ideas about it - that if students enroll in doctoral school and what percentage of those enrolled get a scientific degree, it is really 23 percent, so we can track it individually. If a student falls out somewhere, so at the given part, let's say, after the first year, after the second year, the doctoral school will replace him, so another student will enroll and start the process again in the same place for three years. There is indeed the ratio, so if you look at the percentage of students who have always been uploaded in this way, i.e. at the end of the formal education course, about 38 percent of them. The 50 percent, which seems to be on the ODT website, comes together to include students who are getting their degree with individual preparation. So from a management point of view, to be more precise, if we want to interfere in the operation of a system, unfortunately, 23 percent is relevant here. We have looked in detail at the reasons for this low gearing ratio. The consequence, I believe, is not to be discussed here: if we do not have a doctorate, there will be no assistant professor, no professor, no professor, no academic, and there will be no researchers in the research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. So the subject is important, which is why we started to deal with it, and that we came to a very quick conclusion, I think I don't have to tell you this. We've looked at what's causing the problem. He doesn't get his grades because the time is too short. So three years of funded doctoral students, as has been said here several times - the world is complicated, so it is not possible to write a doctorate very quickly, because there is a lot to do: you have to be abroad, the area is complicated, you have to measure it, so it is not easy. That is why it is proposed to increase this for at least four years and 4+1 years. Four years is the financed part, and one year is that it is already out of doctoral school, not a PhD student, but finish your dissertation in some kind of job, and that's why the five years were born. These five years are not always five years, so the examples mentioned, when someone is abroad, it is not five years, it is six years, or it can be pushed away, so the system is quite flexible here, but it is a longer period, that is why. And the 2+2 year was born because, by the way, it was proposed by the Hungarian Doctoral Council, because they said that basically it is not always possible to hold the student responsible for not getting a grade, because in order for him to get a degree, there is more to be done. It takes a lead on the subject to deal with it. It requires a doctoral school that actually promotes him to write his dissertation. [[21.10]] It requires a research site that provides the conditions, means, resources, and others. Together, they will result in the student getting some degree at the end. That is why this measurement at the end of the second year is to see how far it has gone. How far did you get in your studies, it's an important thing, how far you've gone with your research, whether something happened to your scientific field. So in the selected area to which he said two years ago that he would research in this area, is there really a chance that, under these conditions, he will be able to add the topic leader, the doctoral schools, the tools, the funding, to the degree. That's why we have this complex exam. There's more than one exam here. One is the complex exam indeed, but then there is another exam at the end when you will defend your dissertation. So there are also two exams here, but we don't call the second one strict, we call it protection. There, though, colleagues would rather talk to each other, a little more academic than such a university-type, more dry affair. This justified 2+2 years. Do we trust the doctoral schools with this? This is left to them, so much so that it is also included in the law, that the condition of this complex examination must be developed by the Hungarian Doctoral Council. He will determine what he wants to see here and how he wants to handle it. Congressman Hiller mentioned how we treat them as adults. We're treating him like an absolute adult, I think. As far as the other criticism is concerned, I think there might actually be such a reaction from a doctoral school, but I am very confident that just because doctoral schools are serious, they will not just push someone over to get a doctoral degree to get away with that semester's, otherwise conditionally detachable funding. That's gonna come back later, then your doctorate will be worthless. I think some people are so serious, they don't do that. In the field of doctoral schools, it is really necessary to look at whether this country needs 160 doctoral schools, whether as a university a doctoral school with different sections is enough: this is the result of the last ten years, we have come this far. By the way, the MAB itself, who obviously generated this situation, also suggested that we look at it and see if this is what we really want to do, so that every university has a doctoral school for all professors, in which if we fail to collect the tribal members, because let's say someone's gone away, then the doctoral school is no longer working. So it's a complex question. But I think there's an agreement between the people here and the profession. I'd like to get to the doctoral scholarship. 140,000 forints and 180,000 forints came from watching what we want to achieve. Like I said, we'd like to have people with scientific degrees, because that's supply. They're not part of the university structure. So make no mistake, they can't be compared to your teacher's assistant or the assistant assistant. When I got my PhD, it was a slightly different system, and the preparation for the candidacy degree itself took place within the framework of the MTA, the so-called TMB, which was the Scientific Certification Committee. There, the university had nothing to do with getting a science degree. It wasn't so bad that the MTA defined for the university that if I worked at a university research facility, how many hours I could do, what I could do, and my university thesis director had to follow them. The situation also looked silly, that when I graduated from university - I was a public scholarship student, I was demonstrating in two places, and I didn't know what I was doing - and I became a doctorate, then my allowance suddenly fell to half, when I became a teaching assistant from doctoral school and then fell even further, because that was the nature of it. It's very important, however, and I'd like to get to the wage increase that the possibilities of a doctoral student are limited. By qualified him for the second stage by some committee, he also said that you would actually receive a higher scholarship in order to make a living so that you wouldn't have to make money. In addition, the second reason for the dropout is the 100 thousand HUF scholarship. The scholarship was raised by this government from 93 thousand forints to 100 thousand forints in 2013, the increase was not terribly large, but before that it was 93 thousand forints for a very long time, this government raised it even when everything else was pretty messed up, so doctoral training was important. That's the importance this is showing. So we have to separate, and I saw the ELTE statement, and 270 people signed it. And then I saw another statement, also ELTE, the adjutant statement, which was much uglier than that. I think it's a kind of unnecessary anger within the university. As regards the original intention of the wage increase, a number of proposals were made for the government. There was a presentation that we communicated after the round table. Then a proposal was made, the results of which we now see, a 27 percent increase in salary over three years. There was a letter about ELTE that university teachers drilled the salary increases of assistant professors and professors. I don't think that's a good way to go. If we increase someone's guaranteed income by 27 percent... We are really talking about two years here, because in January 2018 everyone will achieve a 27 percent increase, and the assistant professors and professors, as has been mentioned, are actually above the border, like the doctoral students. So it's not going to cause any wage tension, I guess. The opportunity for an assistant professor, an assistant teacher, a professor, a professor is much greater. This wage arrangement is not an easy thing, as we have seen, with different opinions. In many ways, what the Congresswoman is saying is not simple, but it is not simple. There's only one reason for this: we can't change the budget law in salad. It's the constitution. But the amendment will be made, as it is in the proposal. Next year, the first time we open the law, that goes into it. Until then, universities will receive from January the source needed for this. In the authorization provision itself, the pay table that should be in the law is written only in this number, but if we multiply it, this is included. You have to believe the government and the Ministry that this is going to happen. Then, as soon as we can change the law, this will be settled. Of course, there are other drawbacks; this has not been mentioned; perhaps I will tell you later. It's not the universities, by the way, that's the downside. So the 27 percent increase in salary, I think, in accordance with the given options, is something that can be done at the moment. If someone really listened carefully to the press conference, which was held by Minister Balog and partly by me, there was another sentence on this. We have said that this is the first step in this income-setting process. The fact that this has indeed been said also shows that Rector Bódis, President of the Hungarian Rector's Conference, referred to this in an interview. He said - the Rector's Conference also suggested 27 percent of this type of universal salary arrangement - that this is a very good direction, the government said that higher education is really important to him. He referred to this second part of the press conference that we would continue, so we will not stop here, as soon as our options appear, this increase will obviously continue. So much for the raise. I thank the Member for the recognition of the third mission of universities in the law. This is written because it is stated in the law that education and research are two basic tasks, but indeed, the sale of knowledge wealth, the regional role is very important, which can lead to the existence of community training centres, for example. Very positive processes have started by creating this. We are also looking forward to the letter from Ozd to the Ministry, which, according to the regulation, must appear, who initiates the establishment of this training centre. But the same happened on the part of Salgótaryan, Sümeg, Kisvárda. A new tentative place appeared with the same need. We're waiting for the letter, and at that moment, we're gonna start doing it. By the way, as far as I know, the negotiations with the university they want to cooperate with have already started, with the government giving all the support to all community training centers. Ad absurdum, even if the process begins now, and the announcement to the Education Office is made, it is still practically possible to advertise in the recruitment replacement book training, such as Ózdon, Kisvárdán, Salgótarján, which can start from September 2016. We didn't even miss that. Obviously, here the municipality, the city, has to settle with the university. About the college-university debate you said, I used to say that a good college is better than a bad university. The problem is that we didn't just start mixing this up, but the confusion started with the introduction of the Bologna system in 2005. At the time, we forced a solution to the Hungarian higher education system, otherwise with a completely different structure - otherwise necessary, so there was no debate - in about a year, which was foreign. Well, that's where the mixing of these functions started, by the way. Universities began to compete with colleges and immediately generate professionals for initial education and labour market. They don't know how to do it. If you're a college teacher, you know, at ELTE, I don't think you're an IT expert... Although I.T. might not be a good example, because they're leaving without a degree. But there are very few professionals ELTE can train in three years. Technical University doesn't know much about that. So we like to teach the student the whole time. Then another process began. Colleges started competing with colleges, what they did, who did the right thing. I assume you're referring to the BGF, Congressman. This demand came precisely from the BGF, which appeared on the round table from the Rector's Conference. The College of Economics, if we call it college, and by the way we write it in Hungarian and English, is not very competitive with Corvinus, for example, although the only difference between Corvinus and Corvinus is that he doesn't have a doctoral school. But in terms of his training, his number of students, his embeddedness, he is not significantly worse than another similar university, let us not name other institutions, which are otherwise called universities. [[21.20]] This justified the fact that instead of college, we created the university category of applied sciences, which otherwise has higher requirements. Obviously, renaming something doesn't make it any better. It can also be seen - I don't know how outwardly it seems, if more Members were sitting here, I think they would probably be better able to justify this - that the universities or colleges that are now going to be universities of applied sciences only look silly in the title of the university of applied sciences, the easiest thing to say is that university, and then in the chapter we will write what category, what grade, and these institutions have started to work very well. The Dunaújváros College, which struggled with serious problems two or three years ago, is at this moment our most innovative institution. If you look at what's happening in the press, you'll see that something happens every week. It began to function in such a way that it really wanted to comply. I guess I don't have to list the BGF here for what BGF is like. It was an excellent institution before that, and it is now, and I think that it will continue to be an excellent institution in the future. But Nyíregyháza College started to work well. Obviously not because of this, there were many reasons why processes had begun that meant compliance with another thing. Anyone who knows the Departure House, there's a saying in it that you can call yourself a great woman, but you'll still be an ugly witch. The reverse of this is true: we can call ourselves a university, and we can live up to that title if we have the intention. The maintenance guy has a plan. The processes that have started will definitely be forced by the maintainer. And there's a new character in this story, the consistorium, which will also be included in its tasks, to ensure that the conditions for this are that universities can actually fulfil this higher level of function. Entrepreneurship. I don't know, Congressman, if you're referring to the innovation contribution. [[Dr. István Hiller: Yes.]] It's a very good example of how a good idea can be ruined. The idea was born in 2003 for companies to pay an innovation contribution to a fund, and they can use the funds paid to this fund in two ways, on the one hand, by using it themselves, because they have their own development engineer, and on the other hand, if they don't have one, but they want to produce a product in their own right, then they can go to a university and buy this capacity from the university as a quasi-service. The idea was not only good because it was mine, because then I was chairman of the Committee called OFB - I was appointed in 2001 and I stopped in 2003 - but the idea was really good. The implementation wasn't good. I don't think I should tell you why. We've ruined everything that could be ruined by not wanting to control this process. This turned out to be nothing more than that Tesco ordered a HUF 10 million monthly study to develop its logistics system at a given management university. It's obviously not much of a product. I don't know a small company that had a product in this process, we wasted this money, we spent it on something that wasn't the original goal, because there were no regulators on the university side, and there were no regulators on the corporate side. I don't think caution is appropriate. In 2012, this justified the fact that the same amount would be returned to companies and universities in a different way. Learning from this situation, we wanted to separate this activity from the university in some form. The question of whether or not other devices purchased from other sources can be used is yes. The law doesn't rule that out. With regard to the use of assets, there is obviously a priority of the source to which we have received this. If this is education, then obviously education has a top priority, if we took it for basic research from another source, say, an EU source, it is. But if these assets have free capacity, then why can't the university use them for money-making activities, but under regulated conditions. As Congresswoman mentioned, this is not the typical one. Typically, it is the opposite direction to use the tools of this kind of income for education. That's okay, too. That's okay. The point is, these tools are for the benefit of the university, and not for the particular interests we've shown through the university companies. It's called a professor's business, because it shows up everyone who's been trying to get through it in some way. Now, that's what we want to settle and regulate. And the kind of profit that these university units generate, but stay at the university, don't translate into anything else. I do not think that I see such a great danger. It is not that the university cannot create a spin-off business or start-up business or create a business not for matters falling within its core activity, but that it is not possible for the university to create a basic activity, but rather to create an opportunity for the Aht. within its dissolved limits, it is able to undertake exactly as a company. It is not realistic to buy a chemical or a device through a centralised procurement procedure when the partner company wants to do so within two weeks. Well, that's a relief to the university. It's not realistic to buy an IT device with a joint research and development project, let's say, with a company, because it requires permission from the Prime Minister's Office. It also exempts universities from this. So we want a more realistic situation, but we want it to be controlled and transparent, not least in the interests of the university. In this sense, the law ensures that. I think I spoke relatively quickly again, hopefully it wasn't a problem for the stenographers. [[Defiance.]] They said that I made the best stenographers in the Hungarian Parliament the best in the world, because I speak fast. I think I have answered a significant part of the questions. Excuse me, I will answer one more question to the congresswoman: simplifying the exercise of employer's rights. It's not about that, it's not about the rector and the chancellor's common employer's rights, it's not really working. That the intention - we will look at the text - is that really what it means? I've been through a lot of lawyers, but I'm an engineer, so I wouldn't want to be a lawyer. The intention is that the Higher Education Act generally clarifies whose employer's right is exercised, but when we break it down in the institutions, it is not that simple. I'll give you an example. According to the Higher Education Act, the professor in charge of the clinic has the chancellor's employer's rights. This is not applicable, so we agreed that the clinical chief of medicine or professor would pass on the exercise of the employer's right to the rector. This could be decided by the Senate, and then we'll face a long process, or we'll be dealt with by each other. At the Academy of Music, the leader responsible for the organization of concerts falls under the law of the chancellor's employer, because he is not an instructor, not a researcher, not a teacher, but the Academy of Music is a specific institution, and there the organization of concerts comes out of the basic activity, and there the chancellor can't really decide if he can't play the piano, especially if he can't decide. Therefore, there we also said that although the Chancellor is exercising employer's rights, let us say that institutional regulation should have the right of agreement between the Rector on appointment, dismissal, and partial employer's right. These are the situations we want to deal with. If they all need a Senate decision, which does not have any significance in this sense, because the interests of the employee are not affected, then we wanted to settle this and we will, of course, look at the text. I think I have answered a significant part of the questions. If there's more, you're welcome. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-19-170	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Mr Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik Group, came forward. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-19-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last Friday, 13 November in Hungary, attention was drawn to the unfortunate events in Paris, but 13 November was also the anniversary of a much more joyful event, namely the 140th anniversary of the birth of Kunó Klebelsberg, Minister of Culture, on 13 November 2015. In my speech after today's agenda, I would like to remember him, giving briefly the results he has achieved in the areas of education and culture. It was not only the establishment of institutions and institutional development that made it worth remembering him here in the Hungarian Parliament, but also the spirit with which he took up the issue of culture and education, thus establishing the future of Hungarian youth for decades. [[21.30]] Kunó Klebelsberg has been a public figure since 1914, for a short time, in 1921 also as Minister of Interior, but then from 1922 for ten years without interruption, Minister of Religion and Public Education, whose activities in fulfilling his post made him a truly historical personality. In Kunó Klebelsberg's view, he supported, developed and monitored the life of the sector from the smallest level of education to the highest level. In essence, he eliminated mass illiterateism in Hungary, and the establishment of the farm school system provided education for decades for the population of the farmland world. At that age, they were a huge step forward, and the quality of the education and education of Hungarian society was greatly increased. He also changed the system of public education, and large-scale university development was also carried out in Hungary during his ministry, in Pécs, Szeged or Debrecen, but he also supported the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and he did not forget about sports life, as in 1928 the College for Physical Education was established, which still works today. It is also thanks to him that he has also dealt with the Hungarians who have been torn abroad, and the Collegium Hungaricum system was also created under his ministry. It is also worth listing the cultural institutions, if not with the need for completeness, since by 1928 the Collegium Hungaricum opened in 1929. In Hungary he built 17 agricultural folk schools and countless elementary folk schools. In 1930 he also inaugurated the National Sports Hotel on Margaret Island. In Szeged, in the presence of Miklós Horthy, the 5,000th folk school building was inaugurated, at the same time, in 1930 the pride of Kunó Klebelsberg, the church of Szeged. So he was not only a minister of education, but, as I mentioned, also a minister of religion and public education. He has made countless progress in the field of culture, and he has also paid particular attention to this in addition to education. In 1922 he created the Hungarian National Collection University and its advice. This included the Hungarian Royal National Archives, the Hungarian National Museum and the National Széchényi Library, the National Museum of Fine Arts, the National Museum of Hungarian Applied Arts and the Library of Pázmány Péter University. To create an educated middle class, he also brought the literature magazine Sunrise to life. All this fragmentary list shows that during the ministership of Kunó Klebelsberg, education and culture have achieved extraordinary results in Hungary, and has also managed to create a prosperous cultural life as minister, so I think it is worthy to recognize his life's work, regardless of the parties, and to commemorate it on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of his birth. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-19-172	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:34 p.m.]]
