u2015-03-04-0	Dear Parliament, The 8th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notary Erzsébet Schmuck and notary László Földi will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Italian Republic on the draft law on the publication of the Agreement on the Multi-national Land Bond until closure follows. The submission is T/2920. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Hende, Minister for Defence, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-03-04-1	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In 1998, the Government of Hungary, Slovenia and Italy established the Multinational Land Bond, which stands for MLF, in order to carry out battle tasks in humanitarian and research-saving, peacekeeping and crisis management operations. MLF's mandate is primarily for areas with difficult terrain and extreme climates in Eastern Central Europe and South Eastern Europe, but not excluding non-European applications. The Multinational Land Bonds are doing an excellent job. Each year, he carries out a joint exercise. It has been successfully involved in NATO's Kosovo operation on two occasions. Some elements of MLF have been involved in the ISAF mission in Afghanistan on three occasions. The elements of the unit are currently preparing for the new NATO mission to support the settlement process in Afghanistan, to participate jointly in Operation Destined Support, for a six-month period from March 2015. The forces designated by MLF for the EU battle group were on standby in the second half of 2007 and in the second half of 2012. The 2017 MLF-based EU battle group is currently under preparation. The Multinational Land Bond, although the best-functioning form of regional cooperation of the Hungarian Defence Forces, is no longer a modern organisation. Changes in the security environment and the joint fulfilment of our NATO and EU obligations make it necessary to strive for a rational use of our resources and cost-effective solutions throughout our development visions and the preparation of our forces. Based on the experience gained during the joint work and the intention of the States Parties to join the NATO rapid deployment force in Italy, it has become necessary to modernise the cooperation agreement. Following the preparatory work of the experts and several rounds of trialogues, an agreement on MLF cooperation was reached. Dear House, The subject of the bill is the new version of the Intergovernmental Agreement, which replaces the Intergovernmental Agreement establishing the Multinational Land Bond, which was concluded in 1998. The new agreement broadens the scope of MLF's activities. After the entry into force of the Agreement, it should be able to plan and implement multi-national training for the development of interoperability to achieve and maintain an appropriate level of preparedness, to carry out the tasks carried out by the United Nations, the EU and NATO, and to carry out other missions under mutual agreement between the Parties. According to the principles set out in the UN Charter, the Multinational Land Bond may be used as part of a bond established under the mandate of the Security Council or as part of a bond led by an international organisation, with the participation of all three nations or only two nations, depending on the national political decision. The new agreement sets out the decision-making and decision-making bodies of the Multi-national Land Bond, which are the political-military governing body and the political-military task force with its ad hoc working groups, and sets out their composition. It states that the Italian is the leading nation, and outside the headquarters in Udine, in which certain positions are filled by the Hungarian party, it is stationed on the home base of MLF's stock in standby status. The Convention refers to a lower level of resolution of financial and logistical issues. The agreement between the Defence Ministries settles these issues. Dear House, Other nations may join the Multinational Land Bond and third nations will be able to participate ad hocly in some MLF activities without joining MLF on a case-by-case basis. Ladies and gentlemen, Participation in the Multi-national Land Bond significantly facilitates the establishment of an operational brigade as set out in the ten-year strategic plan of the Hungarian Defence Forces. At the same time, it provides an excellent opportunity for joint operational planning in the medium to long term and for joint development and modernisation. On this basis, I would therefore ask you to discuss and adopt the bill before this House. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[9.10]]
u2015-03-04-2	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-04-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Slovenian, Hungarian and Italian Governments concluded an agreement on 18 April 1998 establishing a joint Multinational Land Bond - which I will hereinafter refer to as MLF - as Minister. The aim of the agreement is to create a ready-to-be, fast-reaction, easy-to-sniper campaign capable of providing an effective military response to emerging challenges. The international treaty in the proposal is a new version of the 1998 MLF agreement. The new agreement broadens the activity spectrum of MLF. According to this, the bond should be able to plan and carry out multi-national training activities for the development of interoperability to achieve and maintain an appropriate level of preparedness, maintenance, operational efficiency, the tasks carried out by the United Nations, the European Union, NATO, and other tasks under mutual agreement between the Parties. Italy will continue to play the leading national role. In this role, it shall ensure the headquarters of the MLF Command, its commander and the majority of the HQ's organisation. By way of derogation from the previous Convention, the agreement contained in the proposal does not specify the type of subdivisions to be designated but should be laid down in the Memorandum of Understanding for its implementation. The Contracting Parties shall continue to determine at the end of each year the capabilities offered for the following year. The proposal contains provisions for the recognition and publication of the mandatory scope of the international treaty. I would like to point out that we are talking about an alliance and cooperation between countries whose soldiers are serving together and working together in Balkan missions, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo. It is clear that security challenges are increasing, and the security policy environment is changing, which makes such cooperation in the field of defence even more important. As I have said, each year at the end of the year, the contracting parties define the potential offered for the following year, and I would like to emphasise the importance of the capabilities in this respect. Exactly as the Minister mentioned, it is very important that we can share and group these abilities. That's what pooling and sharing practice is for. The essence of this is that we can further increase efficiency, and this must be done in addition to the fact that budget expenditure must also reflect the importance for all participants to maintain and develop adequate skills with adequate spending in the future. I think that, in the current situation, the government must also take a clear position and do so in action, one that clearly shows that the safety of Hungarian people is a priority for the Hungarian people. Because we know that every alliance and every cooperation and bond can only be successful if the participants have and can maintain, and develop, a sufficient force for each of them, so that Hungary's clear task is to do everything to ensure the security of the Hungarian people in such a way as to improve the functioning of the Hungarian Defence Forces. This requires the government to evaluate the efforts and excellent performance of the stock in action. That's what the stock was promised. We very much hope that the wage development that the government has promised them by mid-year will be realised, and we very much hope that it will be sustainable in the future, because it is about time. It is the government's task to substantially increase the amount allocated to the basic tasks, and it is also responsible for carrying out substantive and no longer deferred improvements as soon as possible. We know very well that combat helicopter capabilities have almost ceased in Hungary, and transport helicopter capabilities have drifted to the brink of extinction. The Government has made clear in many of its statements that it has recognised the problem in words; we do not yet see the actions, but of course we hope that the acquisition of transport helicopters and the maintenance and continuous improvement of this capability will be achieved as soon as possible. So all in all, we consider such international cooperation, such as MLF, extremely important. The MSZP supports the deepening of defence cooperation with our NATO allies, and we consider it particularly important to further strengthen relations between the states of our region. The operation of the Multinational Land Bond set up by Hungary, Italy and Slovenia in 1998 is an outstanding example of this. The MSZP therefore welcomes the renewal of tripartite cooperation and will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-04-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-04-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The agreement between the Republic of Slovenia, the Italian Republic and the Republic of Hungary was concluded in 1998 and the amendment of which is now before us. Nearly 20 years ago, these three countries established a Multi-national Land Bond in order to develop their military relations, strengthen their absolute commitment to stability in Europe, and create a ready-to-back, fast-reaction, easy-shooting campaign capable of providing an effective military response to emerging challenges. The purpose of this Convention is to renew the agreement concluded in 1998. The new agreement essentially amends it in two areas. One is that the way other countries join the MLF is more pronounced and defined. The second and most important thing is that the bond can now be used without territorial restrictions in both UN, EU and NATO operations with the full consensus of the States Parties. Over the last nearly twenty years, the military has held a number of joint exercises, increasing cooperation between countries, while also carrying out peacekeeping tasks in, for example, the Balkans or Afghanistan. The Hungarian soldiers also performed outstandingly in this area, for which they deserve all recognition and respect. It is important to underline that Jobbik supports military cooperation that can help strengthen relations between countries, not only at military level. However, we do not support operations that serve foreign interests. We would like to draw the attention of the government, Minister, to the risks involved in various operations. We found the idea from the government side that Hungary might be able to participate in a mission in Kurdistan, with which, if not directly, it would fight the Islamic State. Against the Islamic State, which was greatly contributed by the Western countries, as former NATO commander-in-chief Wesley Clark told CNN in February. Although the government would obviously gain a red dot in the eyes of Western countries if it were to undertake such a mission, Hungary's interests are far ahead. [[9.20]] It is not in our country's interest to carry out such a mission, since it would make us targets in the eyes of extremists, the Islamic State, not to mention risking the lives of Hungarian soldiers in a conflict that was triggered by foreign interests. Of course, I do not wish to limit my claim to just one situation, but I would like to make it clear that, regardless of the international and multi-national treaties and conventions, the Hungarian government must always have the greatest interest in Hungary. We cannot sacrifice our national interests and the security of our country in order to gain good points at international level, especially in the eyes of America. The same applies to the situation in Ukraine, from which Hungary must stay completely out of it, and we must make our efforts exclusively by diplomatic means, in the hope of peace, taking full account of the interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, Returning to the proposal: we consider it important to strengthen our cultural and economic relations with both Slovenia and Italy, but it is completely unacceptable for our national self-determination to broaden the agreement in this direction. The MLF has previously been supported, but with its direct involvement in NATO governance, in this fierce international situation, when we see NATO pursuing an increasingly aggressive policy rather than defensive behaviour, Jobbik's group cannot support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-04-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. I give the floor to Commission President Lajos Kósa, Fidesz.
u2015-03-04-7	Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The international agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Hungarian Government and the Government of the Italian Republic on the multi-national land bond and its renewal, if I have paid close attention to opposition speakers, is supported by everyone. What really amazes me is that, in addition to the support, the opposition makes a big contribution to the fact that even those who are watching Parliament's work or listening to parliamentary speakers, if any, do not understand exactly what it is, because it is clear that this agreement on multi-national land ties is the possibility of developing a military ability that is important for the Hungarian Defence Office. My fellow Members also said that strengthening military relations is of particular importance to Hungary and is in our interest with countries with which we should clearly share joint responsibilities, and which countries share the same security policy interests. Compared to this, it is inappropriate to raise questions that are completely confusing to students who listen to this question, but rather a two-shot speech. After all, it is clear that this agreement has nothing to do with our involvement in action against the Islamic State in the world. Nothing! Of course, on a ceterum censeo basis, we know that there were other important political bodies when someone prayerfully said that Carthage had to be destroyed in the matter of wheat harvesting. But the fact is that the issues relating to the Islamic State, the general issues of the development of the force, including issues such as helicopter capacity or taking into account NATO's policies in the development of the forces - which the Hungarian government has otherwise undertaken - are, once again, suitable for confusing people. I am pleased that the opposition colleagues acknowledge the efforts of the Hungarian soldiers. I would also like to thank you for the excellent and conscientious work you do in these international cooperations, and I am particularly pleased that the MSZP supports this bill. Obviously, we will have the opportunity to discuss, my fellow Members, Hungarian participation in possible international action against the Islamic State, and how it will be established precisely in the debate before Parliament, and this can be debated on the basis of a more precise and normal proposal. One thing is certain, of course, in advance, is the eminent policy of the Hungarian government, which Fidesz strongly supports in order to stay out of the Ukrainian conflict. Luckily, we're staying out. Of course, speaking on this may be an important message, but there is no debate between us. One thing is certain: it is strange to hear the rejection of Jobbik's action against the Islamic State when right-wing politicians throughout the country around Christmas are entertaining local government leaders by setting up crosses everywhere without permission, thus claiming to be the true representative of Christendom, as opposed to mayors who only tell us that at Christmas the crossover is not appropriate for Christian traditions. On the other hand, in a case where the mass persecution and physical destruction of Christians for obvious religious reasons is the program of an illegally existing state, which, by the way, upsets the whole Christian world, solidarity with Christianity is completely lacking in Jobbik's thinking. That's as Pharisee as you can imagine. But we will certainly be able to discuss this when we will have the debate in Parliament about the persecutions of Christians or other acts of the Islamic State, after which it is up to Parliament to decide to what extent and under what conditions Hungary will participate in such a mission, if at all. Now it is certain that the Fidesz faction supports greatly the amendment of this military cooperation, the ability to maintain the ability of a fast-acting battalion to operate in the joint maintenance of the Slovenian, Hungarian and Italian Republic, and we support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-04-8	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. I'll give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-03-04-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say to President Kósa that I think that our fellow Member Mr Demeter's speech was quite clear and clear. I don't think anyone else was confused, except you. Therefore, I will say again briefly and briefly what our opinion is and what our fellow Member, Mr Demeter, has said. 1. The MSZP supports this bill. I think that was clear and clear. 2. My fellow Member stressed the importance of participation in and participation in the multi-national land bond. 3. However, it is a matter of the matter, Mr President of the Defence Committee, that the ability, financing of the Hungarian Defence Forces, is the strength that it can demonstrate in what state it is. It is closely related to the international bond and capacity we can participate in, but it is most closely related, Mr President, to the capacity and ability to defend our country at all. I think that, on the subject of this law, my fellow Member has rightly said these things, and I am very pleased that he has spoken of them. I very much hope that Minister will give a reassuring answer to these questions. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-04-10	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2015-03-04-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kósa asked us to stay directly on the subject. In comparison, at the end of his speech, he was the one who completely misplaced the debate and began to talk about our Christmas cross-setting mission, and a number of slippages appeared in his speech. But since this has come up, I'd like to say that this is because of putting the real meaning of Christmas at the heart of many years ago, to draw people's attention to what this holiday is about. But he wasn't paying enough attention to the keynote speeches anyway. For example, I have made it clear that we cannot support the involvement of the UN, the EU and NATO in both operations, which appears here as a change, underlining that we are in a lively international situation, when we really need to consider whether we can really support such a bill. [[9.30]] I referred back to the fact that we supported the MLF itself, but we can't do that in this situation. Here, too, in relation to the situation in Ukraine, what Lajos Kósa said was quite shady, because it is very right for you all to think that we really need to stay out of this conflict. Only then, for example, should it not have been clear that sanctions against Russia should have been put in place every single time, which is a disadvantage from an economic point of view and does not serve the interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians at all. As far as the Islamic State is concerned, I would add that, of course, we also consider Christian solidarity to be extremely important, and we really need to take action against these extremists and terrorists, but we do not think that Hungary should join such a mission, because this could have extremely detrimental consequences for our country. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-04-12	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone still wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende, the rapporteur, who appears to be... [[Csaba Hende says he doesn't want to say anything.]] So you do not wish to respond to what has been said in the debate. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We now have a joint general debate on defence proposals. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the titles of the proposals in the joint debate.
u2015-03-04-13	Dear Parliament, Today's joint general debate consists of a total of 16 proposals. I will give you the titles and figures of these publications: 2186/2008 on the Hungarian military engagement in the operations of the International Security Collaborating Forces in Afghanistan B/50 amending the Government Decision 1st report and H/2024 on its adoption Proposal for a Decision No 2186/2008 on further Hungarian military engagement in the operations of the International Security Assistance Forces in Afghanistan B/1817. 1st report and H/2025 on its adoption Proposal for a Decision No B/2491 on the Hungarian military engagement in Operation Destined Support in Afghanistan. Report No 7 and H/3348 on the adoption of this Decision. Proposal for a Decision No 1070/2014 on the Hungarian military engagement in the European Union's operation in the Central African Republic B/52 on Government Decision 1st report and H/2021 on its adoption Proposal for a Decision No B/1871 on the Hungarian military engagement in the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic. Report No 7 and H/2019 on the adoption of this Regulation. Proposal for a Decision; B/2555 on further Hungarian military engagement in the European Union's operation in the Central African Republic. 1st report and H/3347 on its adoption. Proposal for a Decision No 1915/2013 on a further Hungarian military contribution to the European Union Mission for the Training of Security Forces in Somalia. B/49 on the decision of the Government 1st report and H/2023 on its adoption Proposal for a Decision No B/138 on further Hungarian military engagement in the Mali Training Operation of the European Union Report No 7 and H-2020 on the adoption of this Regulation. Proposal for a Decision No 1.
u2015-03-04-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The reports were submitted by the government and the recommendations for the resolution were submitted by the Defence and Police Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Hende, Minister for Defence, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-03-04-15	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As Minister of Defence, it is my duty to report to this House from time to time on the mission activities of our soldiers. Missions play an important role in the life of the defence, and on the other hand they provide an important tool in the hands of Hungarian diplomacy at all times to preserve and expand our international space of movement. Every war conflict, anywhere on Earth, is a risk to our country. It's enough to think of refugees coming to our borders. The role played by the international community in stabilising international crisis zones is extremely important. Hungary, as a member of this community, is taking its fair share of these efforts, and so, as we say, it has a place at the table, you can give your opinion and you will pay attention to this opinion. Missions offer an important opportunity for our countrymen. In addition to the priority actions, professional development is also a major motivation. The tasks carried out in multi-national relations, the operations carried out in sharp conditions, the daily use of state-of-the-art technology are all extremely important experiences, and this, of course, increases our defence capabilities. Today, I will bring to you the work of some of our missions. Dear House, Let us be the first to make a further Hungarian military contribution to the European Union Mission for the Training of Somali Security Forces 1915/2013. B/49. I would like to say a few words. The EUTM Somalia mission was decided by the Council of the European Union on 3 February 2010. As a training and non-fighting operation for the training of Somali security forces, it will be carried out in Somalia or Somalia in the neighbouring countries, Uganda and Kenya. Its mandate is currently until 31 March 2015, but the European Union is currently preparing for a further extension of the mission. Our country supports the EU's common security and defence policy and takes part in EU crisis management operations. The Hungarian military participation in the EUTM Somalia mission is consistent with these efforts. In order to participate in the Hungarian military, the government had to have a prior authorisation, which was originally approved by the 1227/2011. Government decision was given, and lastly 1915/2013. It was extended by the Government by decision No. The extension of the Hungarian public licence is also under preparation, depending on the EU decision, for the period after March 2015. The Hungarian public licence is for ten people, but we offered the EU four Hungarian soldiers to participate. Until 2013, Hungarian soldiers served in Uganda, but in the first half of 2014 they moved to Somalia, Mogadishu. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the above, the Government has agreed in the decision on further Hungarian military contribution to the EUTM Somalia mission that up to ten members of the Hungarian Defence Forces will serve abroad in the forces of training forces and in the force of international forces. Turning to the B/52 on Hungarian military engagement in the European Union Operation in the Central African Republic, in English, by EUFOR RCA. I would like to inform you that the United Nations Security Council, in its Resolution No 2134 of 28 January 2014, gave a mandate to the European Union for the operation to be carried out in the Central African Republic. [[9.40]] The primary objective of the UN mission is to establish and maintain a peaceful and secure environment in and around Bangui by a military contingent of up to 1000 people. The Government 1070/2014 on the Hungarian involvement in the European Union's Central African Republic operation. A maximum of 12 persons were allowed to be sent to the Hungarian Defence Office during the conversion period of up to 6 persons. In line with the EU mandate, Hungarian participation received its first mandate until 31 December 2014, but in line with the EU's extension decision, we also extended Hungarian participation until 15 March 2015, the 1834/2014 adopted in the meantime. Government Resolution No. 1. At the moment, we have two soldiers on the mission, one at the operations headquarters in Larissa, Greece, and one at the scene in Bangui, one from Larissa, can be transferred to Bangui at any time. Dear House, Our next report on Hungarian military engagement in the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic is B/1871. The abbreviation for this operation is MINUSCA. In April 2014, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 2149 establishing the deployment of the MINUSCA mission in the Central African Republic. The operation of the mission was authorised in advance by the UNSC until 30 April 2015, with a total number of 11 800, of which 10,000 are soldiers and 1800 police officers. Minusca is responsible, inter alia, for protecting civilians, helping local authorities, protecting human rights and supporting the decommissioning process. Thanks to MINUSCA, the EU will subsequently withdraw the EU mission, EUFOR RCA, which will allow for the use of scarce resources in other areas and cost savings. On the basis of the above, the Government's 1538/2014. In its resolution No.3 approved the Hungarian military participation in MINUSCA with the task of up to two staff officers from the army during the conversion period, up to four staff officers for the period specified in the mandate of the operation, but not later than 30 April 2015. The government will decide again on the expected extension of this mandate, as decided by the UN in the future. Under my authority, I have authorized the deployment of two unarmed military observers to the MINUSCA staff. Hungary will send the Hungarian soldiers to the operation area in mid-March 2015. Dear House, I now turn to the B/138 on further Hungarian military engagement in the European Union's Mali Training Operation - an English abbreviation for EUTM Mali. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The European Union initially decided on 17 January 2013 to set up an EU training mission for the development and development of the Malian forces' operational capabilities. One year later, the Council of the Union extended the operation until 18 May 2016. It is important for the EUTM Mali mission to be an EU mission, and this is a training operation to train the Mali security forces. In 2013, we sent out medical experts, staff officers and trainers, and from May 2014 staff and trainers. Currently, three people are serving in Mali, one tribal officer and trainer, and from May their number will rise to five in the person of a tribal officer and four trainers. The government is growing14. A maximum of 15 members of the Hungarian Defence Forces have been authorised to carry out their duties in the operational area until the end of the EU mandate on 18 May 2016. Dear House, On 28 January 2014, the UN Security Council gave a mandate to the European Union for the operation to be carried out in the Central African Republic in Resolution 2134. This Decision empowers the European Union to deploy the mission and to use the military force. On 10 February 2014, the Council of the Union adopted Decision 2014/73, which will be implemented under its Common Security and Foreign Policy. Council Decision. According to the decision, the operation must be completed 6 months after the full operational capability has been reached. EUFOR RCA has achieved its full operational capability on 15 June 2014 and, accordingly, the end of the mission's mandate has been calculated by 15 December 2014. Hungarian military participation in the operation is set out in Annex 1070/2014. The Government has authorised it in its decision No 1. On 15 September 2014, pursuant to UNSCR 2149 of the United Nations Security Council, Operation MINUSCA took over control of the UN Integrated Peace-building Office in the country and the African Union's support mission to the Central African Republic. On the basis of the Government Decision 1538/2014 on Hungarian engagement in the Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic, Hungary is also involved in this mission. In view of the fact that the results of EUFOR RCA could have devolved if the European Union had completed the operation before reaching the operational capacity of MINUSCA, in accordance with its original mandate, and therefore on 21 October 2014, the UNSC adopted Resolution 2181, extending the mandate of EUFOR RCA until 15 March 2015, allowing the EU to continue to support the MINUSCA mission until its full operational capability. On 7 November 2014, the Council of the European Union held the UN Resolution 2014/775. The mandate of EUFOR RCA was therefore extended until 15 March 2015. Hungary fully supported this decision at the Council meeting. Accordingly, for the sake of further Hungarian participation, the Government accepted the provisions of Article 1834/2014. Decision No 1070/2014 of 29 December last year, extending Hungarian military participation until 15 March 2015 and repealing Decision No 1070/2014 establishing the former mandate. Decision No.3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. In the decision, therefore, up to a maximum of 12 staff officers from the Hungarian Defence Forces during a six-shift period - who are deployed to the mission's command of operations and partly to the military headquarters set up in the capital of the Central African Republic, will participate in the mission for the period specified in the mandate of the operation, but not later than 15 March of this year. Following the end of the mission's mandate on 15 March 2015, the EU will operate a 60-person advisory mission in which Hungary does not wish to participate in the previous military mission. [[9.50]] Dear House, The next case is at the end of 2013, but Parliament has only just put it on the agenda, because the report has only just been presented because of last year's parliamentary elections and the re-established Parliament. So some thoughts are the B/50 on the Hungarian involvement in the operation of the International Security Participating Forces in Afghanistan, the ISAF. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: As you know, it was established by UN Security Council Resolution 1386... [[He's coughing.]] I beg your pardon. Therefore, the UNSC established the ISAF in 2001, whose powers were gradually extended to the entire territory of Afghanistan after the departure. This specifically fighting operation ended at the end of 2014 and was replaced on 1 January 2015 by NATO's support and advisory operation Operation Destined Support - the English abbreviation RSN -. During the so-called transition phase until the end of 2014, ISAF gradually and continuously transferred its full responsibility for security throughout the country to the Afghan government forces. The European High Command of the Allied Forces, with the mandate of the North Atlantic Council, has asked nations to participate intensively in the transition phase. Instead of finishing, primarily rebuilding and training and mentoring, the freeing capabilities of the Allied States were primarily needed as a consultant as a result of the launch of the RSN operation. Accordingly, Hungary has made its national commitments to NATO for 2014. The Government adopted in December 2013 the 2186/2008 on further Hungarian military engagement in Afghanistan in order to implement these decisions. 1916/2013 amending Decision No 1916/2013 Decision No.3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Until 31 December 2014, until the end of the mandate of Operation NATO ISAF, the Special Operations Quota extended the mandate of the Air Training Support Group for the Mi-17 transport helicopter. In addition, Hungary took over the leading national role of the ISAF Special Operations Section East for six months from November 2013. The work done here has brought our country great recognition within the alliance. Dear House, I would now like to say a few words about the involvement in the operations of the International Security Assistance Forces in Afghanistan, B/1817. In addition, in relation to the number 1 report. According to the agreement between the international community and Afghanistan, the mandate of Operation ISAF given by the UNSC expired on 31 December 2014, as I have already mentioned. In the so-called transition phase until the end of 2014, ISAF gradually transferred full security responsibility to the Afghan forces. The Support and Advisory Mission, which replaced NATO's fighting operation, was launched on 1 January 2015. In the final phase of the ISAF operation until the end of 2014, our country also changed its participation as requested by the Alliance. Accordingly, for the last six months of the ISAF operation, the so-called operational advisory group split into two: the insurance tasks and the tasks implementing the forces are carried out by a new contingent, the insurance section will carry out 30 persons; the advisory tasks continued in individual positions with 10 participants.In 2014, due to the change of Hungarian engagement, we installed and maintained in the operational area the skills needed to successfully carry out the Resolute Support Mission as of 2015 as well. Thus, the government 1560/2014. By its decision, the Government Decision No 2186 of 2008 was amended. According to this, the insurance phase operates after 1 October 2014 in an operation run by ISAF or NATO, which therefore extends to Operation Destined Support launched on 1 January 2015; the performance of advisory tasks has been transformed, according to which the Hungarian soldiers carry out this activity in an individual capacity. The operational advisory group carried out its activities in Afghanistan until the delivery of advisory tasks until December 2014. Dear Parliament, Following the completion of the transition phase, the so-called transformation decade will take place between 2015 and 2024 during which Afghanistan, supported by the international community, will consolidate its sovereignty by strengthening a functioning and sustainable state in the service of its citizens. The conclusion of the ISAF and the continuation of the mission in Afghanistan after 2014 were decided by the Heads of State and Government of the NATO Member States at their 2012 Chicago Summit, which was confirmed at the 2014 Welsh Summit on 4 September 2014. The mission was a condition of international law for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the United States and Afghanistan, as well as a military status agreement between NATO and Afghanistan, a so-called SOFA agreement. The documents were signed only on 30 September 2014 as a result of the delay in finding the result of the Afghan presidential elections. The Conventions were ratified by the Afghan Parliament at the end of November 2014. On 2 December 2014, NATO Foreign Ministers published a joint statement with the Afghan President stating that they had agreed to launch Operation RSN on 1 January 2015. Following the federal request, the emphasis on Hungarian engagement was also shifted. Hungary significantly reduced its operational engagement in 2013, which mainly served to complete the ISAF operation in 2014 and to launch the support operation that replaced it. In the context of Operation Committed Support, Article 1730/2014 is replaced by the following: Based on a government decision, the following contribution shall be made: a special operational quota of up to 50 persons - 100 persons in a change period; an air training support group of up to 13 persons - 26 persons in a change period; a national support component of up to 30 persons - 60 persons in a replacement period; a provisioning section of up to 30 persons - 60 persons in a replacement period. With effect from 1 January 2015, the new Government Decision was repealed with effect from 2186/2008. It's a government decision. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that the motion be discussed and accepted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-03-04-16	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The Defence and Police Committee has indicated in advance that they do not wish to present a rapporteur to the Commission during the debate. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Commission President Lajos Kósa, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[10.00]]
u2015-03-04-17	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, The participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international peace operations is a constitutional obligation. The Fundamental Law states that, in addition to the protection of Hungary's independence and territorial integrity, the defence is also responsible for carrying out joint defence and peacekeeping tasks arising from international treaties, as well as humanitarian activities in accordance with the rules of international law. We consider the international engagement of the defence to be one of the fundamental tools for implementing Hungarian foreign policy, which is also enshrined in the national security strategy. The participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international missions is noticeably strengthening the position of our country in NATO and in the European Union. Furthermore, it can be said - and not negligible - that experience and knowledge gained in international peace operations are also essential for the protection of our country. Today, about 700 Hungarian soldiers serve in 12 countries as part of an international peace mission, the report on this issue is the subject of today's agenda. 62 percent of our soldiers are NATO, approximately 23 percent of the European Union, and 15 percent are in UN operations. With them, more than a hundred highly skilled Hungarian soldiers work in NATO and EU headquarters. Our soldiers in these missions also generally stand up, have a particularly good reputation, have a satisfactory and outstanding knowledge and readiness. I would especially like to thank you for your sacrifice on behalf of the Fidesz fraction. Mr Minister, in his presentation, he presented in detail the reports of the missions on the agenda, and I would therefore like to give a very brief summary of all the reports that the Defence Committee has discussed in detail and agreed unanimously. First of all, the involvement in Afghanistan, perhaps followed by the greatest international interest. In 2001, the UN established the International Security Collaborative Force, whose powers were gradually extended to the whole of Afghanistan. The Hungarian soldiers participated in the ISAF operations, which can be regarded as a particularly fighting operation. In 2013, our country has already significantly reduced its operational engagement, because the mission in Afghanistan will end at the end of 2014 and will be replaced from the beginning of 2015 by the so-called Operation of NATO Destined Support, and has now moved on, because it is 2015, which is fundamentally supportive and advisory. In the mission launched on 1 January of this year, the Hungarian Defence Forces are currently present with 113 people. Our soldiers basically support the training, preparation of the Afghan army and participate in the work of advisory groups. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, Hungarian soldiers are contributing to the success of the mission, including stabilisation and stability of Afghanistan. These efforts are also appreciated by NATO and our allies. Two operations take place in the Central African Republic, in which Hungarian soldiers participate. The growing role of the European Union in Africa has also been observed in recent years. Operation EUFOR RCA launched in 2014 plays a fundamental bridging role in a future UN role, which can start after creating a safe environment. There are two Hungarian soldiers present in the mission, but with the end of the mission, which is 15 March 2015, they can also return home. Another mission in the Central African Republic was launched by the UN in 2014. Its tasks include protecting civilians and human rights and supporting the decommissioning process. This mission includes a total of four staff members, two main staff officers and two main observers from Hungary. The European Union Training Mission in Somalia was launched in 2010, which was basically a training mission until 2013, and then extended this mission with strategic advisory and mentoring tasks. Here, too, the mandate is until 31 March of this year, but the extension of this is already in preparation. We're in Somalia with two soldiers. Last thing I want to say about the EUTM Mali mission. It was launched by the European Union in 2013 with the aim of building, consolidating the structure of the local forces, as well as training and strategic advisory activities. Currently there are three Hungarian soldiers in the country, but from May it is planned to rise to five. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces are present in peace operations in different parts of the world, even in a lively situation, thus contributing to the success of these missions. Hungary is committed to creating international peace and stability, like all democratic states, so we have a responsibility to fight threats in international space and contribute to the activities of international alliances. Of course, it is not at all up to the efforts of Hungarian soldiers and the success of the mission to see how effective this activity is, in the end, in a political sense. After all, we are involved in various crisis areas in which it is known that these countries are facing an uncertain political and security situation over a very long period of time - Afghanistan or Somalia - and when the opportunity will come to consolidate these states politically, and their lives will be settled, and they will otherwise return to the community of peaceful, orderly and peaceful countries, it is difficult to predict. One thing is certain: this does not depend on Hungarian soldiers and cannot depend on them. Therefore, the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the presentation of the Ministry of Defence, recommends that the House accept the reports, and once again I would like to thank the 700 soldiers who are involved in these missions for their efforts and their work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-04-18	Thank you, Congressman, President of the Commission. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-04-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to review the reports submitted and, first of all, I would like to mention a few statements on the amendment of the decision on further Hungarian military engagement in the operations of the International Security Assistance Forces in Afghanistan, the ISAF. Under the authority of the United Nations Security Council, NATO took over the leadership of the International Security Collaborating Forces in Afghanistan by decision of 11 August 2003. By decision, the Government authorised the Hungarian Defence Forces to participate in ISAF's activities in several areas. Over the last six years, the form and extent of Hungarian engagement has changed several times in line with the objectives of the NATO strategy. By the end of 2014, ISAF gradually handed over the responsibility for maintaining security to the Afghan government forces, but NATO did not abandon the Afghan forces, but in a form other than the former ISAF structure, Operation Destined Support started from 1 January 2015 and provides further support. On this report on the Hungarian military engagement in the Afghanistan Destined Support Operation, ISAF handed over security tasks to Afghan government forces by the end of 2014 and, at the same time, as I mentioned earlier, it was included in this proposal that NATO launched a new operation under the name of Operation Destined Support as of 1 January 2015 and this was done to promote the training and support of Afghan security forces. [[10.10]] The international legal basis for this operation is the bilateral agreement between the United States of America and Afghanistan and the military status agreement with NATO. This includes the participation of the special operational contingent, the air training support team, the national support element and the insurance section. Report on the Government Decision on Hungarian military engagement in the European Union's operation in the Central African Republic. On 28 January 2014, the UN Security Council authorised the European Union to deploy a military mission in the Central African Republic. On 10 February 2014, on the basis of this mandate, the Council of the European Union decided to set up a military contingent of 880 persons to operate in the crisis zone for a period of six months from full operational readiness. In 2014, the government decided to participate in the European Union military mission in Hungary. According to this, up to six members of the Hungarian Defence Office are participating in the operation. The report on the Hungarian military engagement in the European Union's Central African Republic operation. Hungary participates in the operation with a maximum of six members belonging to the Hungarian Defence Office on the basis of the 2014 Government Decision. On 10 April 2014, the UN Security Council decided to launch the UN mission, with a staff of 10,000 soldiers and 1800 police officers expected to be involved. And, as you said, Minister, according to a government decision in MINUSCA, Hungary participates with a maximum of two tribal officers from the Hungarian Defence Office. About the Hungarian military engagement in the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic, as mentioned above, about MINUSCA. Here the government decided in the 2014 Government Decision to participate in this operation in Hungary. According to this, a maximum of two tribal officers belonging to the Hungarian Defence Office will participate in this for a specified period of time, but not later than 30 April 2015. A few sentences added to the report on the decision of the Government Decision on a further Hungarian military contribution to the European Union Mission for the Training of Somali Security Forces, the Council of the European Union decided on 3 February 2010 to launch the European Union Mission for the Training of Somali Security Forces. After that, the Bajnai Government decided on the Hungarian contribution in the 2010 government decision, whereby up to eight persons will be displaced from the Hungarian Defence Forces in Uganda for the period from 31 March 2010 to 30 June 2011. In line with this EU decision, the Government extended the mission several times in 2012. That is what is still found in this account. For a report on further Hungarian military engagement in the Mali Training Operation of the European Union. On 17 January 2013, the Council of the European Union decided on an EU training operation to develop and develop the operational capabilities of the Malian forces. In the 2013 Government Decision, the Government authorised the provision of up to 15 tasks in the Hungarian Defence Office until 18 May 2014. The mandate of this operation was extended by the Council of the European Union until 18 May 2016, and the Government, in accordance with the decision of the European Union, made an extension in the 2014 Government Decision to its participation in the Hungarian Defence Mission until 18 May 2016. I would like to stress that the Hungarian Socialist Party has supported these reports and missions without exception at committee meetings and politically, of course. As it is a matter of cooperation between NATO and the EU Member States, let me say a few words about our federal system. Following more than a decade of progress, Hungary joined NATO in 1999 with the Czech Republic and Poland in a joint effort independent of all national consensus and party policy. With this historic event 16 years ago, our country became officially part of the Euroatlantic community of values and interests, its political and security federal system. Hungary's security, foreign policy space and ability to defend its interests have also increased with accession. I believe that in Hungary defence is indeed a national matter, the pillars of which are national self-power and allied cooperation. This national cooperation supports and results in our participation in international missions with a broad coalition, international mandate and consensus decision. There can be no question that active Hungarian engagement in crisis management and peacekeeping serves the security of our country and the Hungarian people. Active Hungarian engagement in missions in a broad coalition has further improved the perception of our country in NATO over the past decade. It is also important to mention here that it is only because of the results achieved today that our perception of NATO is still positive. After all, we need to see that the current government's pragmatic foreign policy, which is more of a swing policy, an economic and individual interest policy, and the irresponsible decisions that have brought the Hungarian Defence Forces to the limit of their ability to function, is not yet tangible, it is only possible to suspect in the federal system and in Hungary's assessment by the federal system. Here, I would like to remove a common misconception. It is not primarily necessary to increase the defence budget because NATO expects us to do so as a NATO member country, and it is not primarily necessary to participate in international missions with a broad coalition, international mandate and consensus decision, because NATO expects us to do so, but because it is in the interests of the Hungarian people; because it is necessary for the security of Hungarian people, and it is the only thing that can guarantee the security of Hungary. So this is in the best interests of our country. I would like to note that, as many have said - and I agree with that very much - in these missions, our soldiers have acquired combat experience that can make excellent use of experience at home, and these are the things that must be borne in mind in any way in developing the functioning of the Hungarian Defence Forces and in increasing efficiency. These experiences should be integrated into the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces as effectively as possible. As we can see from the proposals, our country is a very important player in the implementation of the European Union's common foreign and security policy and also in the active support of the UN Security Council's efforts to achieve international peace and security. The EU's common foreign and security policy must play a very important role in further increasing its effectiveness, since as a member of the European Union it is essential to play an active role in the creation and maintenance of its main goal, peace. I would like to mention here that there is also a chance of reducing migratory pressure if countries in the wider environment of the European Union are able to provide their citizens with security and livelihoods. [[10.20]] To this end, however, the European Union, and thus Hungary, must also do so, so we must help to catch up and actively engage in crisis zones. I would like to point out that an alliance is strong if all its members are strong, which is why it is extremely important to maintain the development and functioning of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Hungary is also in decline in terms of the level of defence expenditure and in terms of the efficient use of scarce resources due to the irresponsible decisions of the government. And in an unprecedented way, the defence budget has fallen to a historic low, less than 1 percent of GDP. Just to mention some data: in 2014 only 0.79 percent of GDP was planned, while in 2015 it represents 0.75 percent of GDP planned. And as I mentioned in my previous speech, the combat helicopter capability has ceased to exist, the transport helicopter capacity has drifted to the limit of functionality, the individual equipment is in extremely poor condition in the defence, there is a huge fluctuations in the stock. And two sentences on wage increases. I very much hope that the professional staff will receive the wage increase that the government has promised. I ask you not to forget those in the status of civil servants, because they will not be affected by the wage increase, as the civil servant's salary does not change. Overall, I express my hope that changes in both common sense and the security policy environment will at last encourage the Hungarian government to see that, in order to guarantee the security of Hungarian people, it is necessary not only to maintain the functioning of the Hungarian Defence Forces on a hairline, but also to develop it. Since Hungary is a member of NATO and later belongs to the Union, the Parliament has adopted decisions on the contribution to NATO, EU and UN missions by a huge majority. I think that in these operations from Kosovo to Afghanistan, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces were excellent. We thank them very much for their service and allow me to thank the police for what they have done in these missions. So they have all the recognition, they are the ones who guarantee that the Hungarian Defence Office is a good judge, and this is how our country can feed, and they deserve the respect it deserves. The decisions taken jointly in these broad coalitions, with international mandate, have been supported by the MSZP all the time, so the MSZP also supports the adoption of the reports. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-04-20	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi. On behalf of the Jobbik Group, it has been pointed out that two will present the group's position in the speaker's speech. First, then, is Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi.
u2015-03-04-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The first word is thanks. I am very pleased that, after many years, we can debate the situation of international missions here again between the walls of this House, but at the same time we are very offended by the procedure that the Hungarian Parliament, which is not the most representative of the people's will, decides on these issues, but the Government has taken the right to make a decision and informs the House of this in the form of reports, which, if I count correctly, is to be conducted in the presence of a dozen or so Members of this type of debate. We believe that this question is more important and deserves more. Hungarian participation in international military missions is primarily done by the Hungarian governments by reference to NATO obligations, and it is worth remembering that these international missions began when they became popular when the United States of America was subjected to a terrible terrorist attack on 11 September 2001, which, of course, was condemned by the whole world. At the same time, the United States of America and a very large part of the West did not take advantage of this terrible tragedy to reflect on the foreign policy of the West and to reflect on the flawed strategy of shaping the new world order, but rather builds this strategy on a kind of illusion that the bipolar world order, the end of the Cold War, will be followed by the establishment of a one-polar world order, and that all Western countries should therefore be led by the United States of America. And in this sense, the United States of America was guided by the neoconservative Republican ideology, which coupled with a false sense of mission, a very large and destructive messianism and a great deal of madness, and in this sense led the world today to truly represent a series of national security risks and security policy risks to different NATO Member States and different nation states. About Afghanistan. After the terrorist attack in 2001, a kind of mission was launched under the name of Operation Permanent Freedom in Afghanistan, a cynical and lying campaign, even if this mission and this campaign took place with UN authority, and under the rules of international law, but we know that international law is rather fluid and subjective, a system reflecting great authority interests and great power deals, which is about how the larger dog and the stronger dog do what they want in the world. Since 2001, the United States of America has destabilized many regions of the world in line with its geopolitical goals. Afghanistan, too, after 2001, although Afghanistan is an unfortunate country that struggled with a multitude of civil wars between two major occupations; but it destabilized Iraq, destabilized Syria, North Africa and the Middle East as a result of revolutions known as Arab Spring, which resulted in Islamic terrorism, Islamic radicalism, as a kind of consequence of these interventions. And here in our neighbourhood, Ukraine, we can also witness a type of geopolitical struggle, which is, of course, about promoting Western, American interests and geostrategic interests. What is happening in the Middle East is what is currently taking place in Ukraine, which is a huge threat to the continent as a whole and to our country, because from the southern direction and from the eastern direction there is a kind of migratory pressure on Europe and our country in the first place. Remember, or I would like to remind you, where migration occurs at the Schengen borders in the first place: obviously at the southern Italian coasts, but also at the southern Hungarian borders. Ukraine is threatening economic collapse, there is a danger that a huge migratory pressure from the direction of Ukraine could be placed on Hungary, through Hungary, all of Europe; and at that time we did not even talk about the threat of terrorism, which after the events in Paris, after the events in Madrid, after the events in London, is no longer a kind of distant vision, but a very real risk that we all face. Prior to the start of the war in Afghanistan, NATO set targets for the eradication of terrorism as a priority objective, stability in Afghanistan and the creation of democratic rule of law, peace and the restoration of this unfortunate country to a self-sustaining career, the stabilisation of the economy, all of which have been identified as important goals, I note very rightly. [[10.30]] But after 14 years of war, let's look at what results we can deliver in Afghanistan and what results the West can produce in Afghanistan. When the war started, we only knew about a terrorist organization called Al Qaeda, that's what we knew. Since then, in Afghanistan, the Taliban have thanked them very much, they are well, they are alive, they are well, they have never been subjected to such powerful Taliban attacks as they are now in Afghanistan. In Iraq and Syria, the terrorist organization Islamic State and ISIS, Boko Haram in Africa, Al-Shabaab are taking their victims, and the threat of terrorism is spreading all over the world. As regards the number of victims, ladies and gentlemen, there are more than 25 000 civilian casualties in Afghanistan, only 14 thousand civilians, including children and women, have died since 2009, and according to UN reports, the deaths of women and children are rapidly increasing exponentially, obviously due to the acts of war there, and this is a worsening trend. As regards the stabilisation of the economy, sustainable development in Afghanistan, it is worth remembering or reminding ourselves that Afghanistan is a country in complete economic bankruptcy, of which two thirds of its annual budget is covered by international aid. So, so much for economic stability and sustainable development in Afghanistan. They're quite funny... - so even Operation Permanent Liberty, to say that it's a rather humorous formulation, especially in the light of the results, but what is now replacing combat operations on January 1, 2015 is this determined Support, which is also quite funny. It's a little like trying to stabilize countries at the NATO headquarters with voodoo and some kind of incantation. Last year the mandate of the ISAF, the period of military operations, has been completed, and now the Decade of Transformation, built on the vision of a functioning and sustainable state, is coming from 2015 onwards. We Hungarians, however, have some idea of how externally controlled transitions can succeed, we know very well where they lead and what results they usually end up with. Here, in the 25th year of the era of political change, we could tell you about this for a long time. I feel sorry for poor Afghans for what's going to happen here by 2024. Perhaps no one will remember how this war began and what goals Westerners set for themselves when they marched into Afghanistan. As regards the Hungarian Defence and Hungary, in December 2014, we would have had the opportunity to leave Afghanistan without loss of face or relative loss of face, admitting that the goals set by this ISAF mission were not met. Instead, what does Hungary do? He is stuck in Afghanistan, and in the framework of such a mission called Destined Support, he will continue to be part of this mission leading to complete and senseless bankruptcy. We have missed this opportunity, but there is still every day the opportunity to revise our failed strategies, the strategies that Hungary has been following over the past 25 years from the change of regime, and it follows us with a kind of pipe vision and compulsiveness, even though in these reports we can read that these strategies should also be re-evaluated in order to assess the international situation, and we should somehow draw up and look at what the objectives have been, where we have come from, and what else to do. We have become part of NATO as a kind of defence system, a NATO that was created in the bipolar world order as a kind of defence system, a kind of reaction in response to a similar military contract of the Socialist bloc. So NATO derives its legitimacy from the time of the bipolar world order and promises us with the illusion of collective protection on the 5th floor. With reference to paragraph 5. I can believe that there are theories that can support this, and there are people who see it as a guarantee. I would like to point out, however, that if 1100-year-old Hungary has taught this nation and this country something, it is that at the time of many freedom fights it could never count on anything but its own strength and its own self. Neither did this country when we fought the Ottoman Empire, nor when we fought the Habsburgs, nor during Rákóczi's time, nor in 1956 no one ever helped from the outside, no one ever did. The person who tells me, referring to a piece of paper, to Article 5, that it is a guarantee that Hungary will be protected during an external attack, I say that he is chasing illusions or not normal, because this article is no guarantee to us. In the current world, under current geopolitical conditions, the price is much higher than the cost and budget of these international missions on square paper. We live in a world where we also have to deal with terrorism and migration. So the concept of protection during asymmetric warfare is not just a question of ability. I'd like to draw your attention to that. This is no longer just about what skills we have, what kind of weapons we have, and what combat experience our soldiers have. In today's world, this has been revalued. So it must be considered at every moment whether or not a NATO membership increases our room for manoeuvre, because I have a sacred belief that at present being a member of NATO in the way that we do, and by taking on such missions, Hungary loses more with NATO membership than it gains. It would make sense, but not in this way, as Hungary has done in the last 25 years, or since 1999, since we were members of this alliance. Of course, you are right, it will increase our diplomatic space if you believe that we are living and will live in a single-pole world order in the future, because then we have nothing but to do NATO favours and then expect them to protect us in an external attack. But in a multipolar world order, the fact of which is now denied only by fanatics, in such a world order, this kind of behavior is merely reducing our room for manoeuvre. I am convinced that these missions do not serve the Hungarian national interests and do not serve the Hungarian national goals, either when they are in the Horn of Africa or in the Sahara, or when we are fighting in the Hindukus Mountains to promote the American geopolitical goals. Of course, Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian soldiers must be honoured, and we must acknowledge their performance and their abilities. However, that is not what this debate is about. This debate is about our foreign policy strategy and Hungary's national security and security policy issues. If there is a country that has never fought for foreign purposes, but has always been occupied solely with sovereignty, independence, defence, it is our country. [[10.40]] In the last 25 years, we have given up this kind of customary law, which Hungary represents for 1100 years. Defence and defence are not conceptually compatible with the missions in which the Hungarian political elite forces Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian soldiers. That is why we say that it is time for the Hungarian people, the Hungarian governments, to reevaluate the processes in the world, to reevaluate what NATO membership means, what engagements mean, what is worth doing and what is not worth doing in such a membership. It is not true that each NATO Member State must play a role in each such mission with binding effect. Let us review these and see what the question of neutrality, for example, would cost. It is time to assess whether NATO membership is a burden to us or an advantage to our country and nation. If, as NATO members, we drift into wars for foreign interests in different parts of the world and even in our neighbourhood, it is obviously a huge burden to be part of an alliance that, although lying to itself as a defence, is actually pursuing an aggressive policy in various parts of the world. Therefore, and for these reasons, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot support the adoption of these reports and these international missions. We have not supported it in the past, either now or in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-04-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik.
u2015-03-04-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to speak in the context of our engagement with the Central African Republic and Mali, which I would like to add to the words of my fellow Group Márton Gyöngyösi. First of all, I would like to underline what I said in my previous keynote speaker's speech that, regardless of how we appreciate these roles, Jobbik clearly recognises the Hungarian soldiers who are involved in these missions, as they have all the respect for their position. Let us look at the two specific countries on which I would like to talk, first Central Africa. In the case of this state, the Muslim rebel group Seleka ruled the power of the head of state of Christian François Bozizé back in 2013. Then, in the former French colony, bloody clashes broke out between the muslim - tyrannical gunmen of the Muslim organization and the rebel Christians against them. In order to stop the bloodshed, France intervened with military force in December 2013 with the approval of the UN Security Council. The conflict has led to more than a thousand deaths and more than five of those living there have been forced to leave their homes. The operations of the EU and UN engagements before us are limited only to the capital, Bangui and its neighbourhood, mainly involving peace and order. The other country, Mali, is also in a situation similar to the one mentioned above. In 2012, radical Islamic insurgents proclaimed their own country in northern Mali, which was then recaptured by the South Malin troops and French soldiers arriving at the government's request by the end of 2013. It is no coincidence that France is so determined to maintain this fragile order, since it gains almost 80 percent of its energy from nuclear sources and Mali and its region is extremely rich in uranium. France, by the way, acquires around 33 percent and a third of its uranium needs from Nigeria, and this country happens to be next door to Mali, where, by the way, the Boko Haram terrorist organization is extremely active. Although the regional conflict does not pose a direct risk to Hungary, the main objective is to protect the locals, and the soldiers themselves are not particularly at risk, we cannot go without saying that France has a significant interest in being present both in the Central African Republic and in Mali, as it has significant economic interests in these countries and throughout the region. Thus, it is suspected that France is present in the region not simply because of solidarity. This raises the question, ladies and gentlemen, whether Hungary should participate in a conflict in which the economic interests of other countries prevail and are of prime importance. Not according to the Jobbik. We cannot spend money and morally we have no right to send our soldiers to places where they have to fight radical Islamic soldiers and jihadists in order to allow other countries to exploit the local population and the natural resources of the country. This is contrary to our national interests, we strongly reject it, and it is also indirectly threatening the security of our country, as I referred to the organisations that are active in the region and which are closely linked to the Islamic State. Indeed, in this way, these engagements can have harmful consequences for Hungary and also for Hungary's territory. I believe that none of the political groups and the government would like that. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as has been mentioned several times before, and my colleague, Márton Gyöngyösi, referred to it, we do not consider it appropriate for the government to decide on similar foreign military engagements in its own jurisdiction, without the authority of Parliament. In the past, we have tabled a proposal to amend the basic law in order to change this, and, of course, the pro-government representatives rejected it and swept it down. We would like a substantive debate to be held in the plenary on similar commitments in the future, not with such participation as we can see here, if we look around, and then a prudent and thorough decision can be taken in these extremely far-reaching cases. They would point out that Jobbik cannot support the reports itself and these engagements. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-04-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh, Fidesz Group, of the pre-scheduled speeches.
u2015-03-04-25	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The Hungarian Defence Agency's duty is to comply with its military obligations under allied and international treaties. It is particularly important to carry out joint defence, peacekeeping and humanitarian tasks and to contribute to the military tasks of the fight against international terrorism with the forces assigned and prepared for it. At the same time, Hungarians have played an extremely active and proactive role in organising and implementing all four international crisis response operations in modern world history in the period before World War I. In fact, Gyula Pintér was the first Austrian-Hungarian consul to direct part of the Austrian-Hungarian sailors to the border of the Turkish and Greek quarters of Kanea during the bloody riots in Crete in 1897 to keep the peacemakers away from each other in the quarter, thus preventing bloodshed. Over the past 110 years, Hungarian soldiers, border guards, police and civilian diplomats have participated in about 50 international peace missions. So far, their professional skills, accuracy, conscience and commitment have been highly appreciated by the members of the international community in all missions, and they still value it in many crisis regions around the world today. These missions were carried out under the auspices of various international and regional organisations, the UN, OSCE, EU and NATO, in line with the objectives set out in Hungary's international security strategy. The speeches made before me showed the nature of the missions and the main parameters of Hungarian participation, from which we can see that Hungarian engagement is still contributing to the success of international operations today. Among the missions, I would like to highlight the ISAF NATO mission in Afghanistan, which was launched in 2001 and ended last December. So the mission is complete, instead of the North Atlantic organization, the Afghan security forces are guarding the country's order. During the mission, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces have demonstrated that they have carried out their duties according to expectations, meet the challenges and are able to cooperate effectively, thereby contributing to the strengthening of our country's positive international judgment. [[10.50]] This mission has therefore ended, but the new mission started in early January, in which Hungarian soldiers are also expected. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear from the reports that the Hungarian Defence Agency's mission role in terms of Hungary's international judgement is certainly positive and must be supported. I think that in such a speech, too, we should thank, as the representatives of all the factions have done, all the soldiers who have proved their worth by fully exploiting their profession. We must do this exponentially on the part of Fidesz. Thank you, because the improvement in international judgment is mainly due to them. We're counting on them in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-04-26	Thank you, Congressman Peter Agh. Further speeches will follow. Mr Gergely Kulcsár, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-04-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Two leading speakers of Jobbik, Márton Gyöngyösi and Tibor Bana have just explained Jobbik's position on the subject. I would like to add some thought to that. Unfortunately, in our history, we have experienced what it is like to have foreign troops stationed in the territory of our country, what it is like to have a country occupied. It could be mentioned in Section XX. Our centuries-old occupations or perhaps the occupations of previous centuries. On this basis, it seems clear that the national minimum is that Hungarian soldiers should not be abroad and that we should not play a military role in missions that take place in foreign countries. The general problem with this is that, as has already been said by my fellow Members, the use of our military forces in areas threatened by terrorists abroad in peacekeeping, advisory or military roles could jeopardise the security of Hungary and the lives of the soldiers serving there. Although it doesn't matter what kind of engagement it is. In the spirit of solidarity, it is possible to take on the role of UN observers or advisors, to send relief supplies, but we believe that armed participation should be avoided today. When the Islamic State was established, jihad was declared against all countries who dared to prevent Sunni from gaining ground. Nor is it possible to know which terrorist organizations are hiding outside ISIS, or which citizens are taking action on behalf of the organization, so it is irresponsible to have military troops stationed in these war zones. In addition, the costs of foreign missions are not incidental. We spend billions of forints on these missions. In exchange for the experience of a few hundred Hungarian soldiers in the war, and given the danger, it is not, in our opinion, the Hungarian interests at all. The government may also say that they make these commitments because of favourable relations and international recognition, but we can pay too much for these dangerous commitments. There are two things we can talk about in relation to the engagement in Afghanistan. One of them is the 10 main advisors and 30 main insurance roles operated by the International Security Collaborating Forces, and the other is the Hungarian military engagement in Operation Destined Support in the field of 13 air training and 110 special security and, where appropriate, fighting military functions. We have repeatedly said that those who perform insurance functions can serve as direct targets for terrorist organisations. There's no way the government's trying to cover that up. Maintaining further military presence is unnecessary, money-intensive and risky in Afghanistan, and because of the terrorist threat, our country may be a target. Márton Gyöngyösi spoke in detail about the fact that terrorist organisations live their world there, and there has been no significant action or action taken over the last decade, but there have not really been any results to curb terrorist organisations. Somalia's involvement is the most incomprehensible, stupid thing the Hungarian defence government has come up with on this subject. There is no central state power in Somalia, and instead there is anarchy of tribes. Sending Hungarian soldiers under such conditions is also irresponsible. The Islamic Sunnite trend is significant in the region, and our engagement in Somalia is extremely dangerous. The situation in Uganda is no better, and sunni Islam is the state religion, but at least there is central government. However, engaging in any military action in this region, with any military presence, does not mean politicalisation in the interests of our country, in our opinion. In conclusion, Jobbik does not want Hungarian soldiers to play a role abroad. As I have already said, sending aid shipments, acting as observers or advisors in the spirit of various charitable solidarity may still be acceptable to us, but military engagement is by no means acceptable. Even because of the security risk, as has been mentioned several times, and I would stress once again that we do not want our country to be targeted by terrorists. These missions are against our national interests, and we cannot support them, as my fellow Members have already said. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-04-28	Thank you, Congressman Key Price. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP.
u2015-03-04-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I have already stressed in several of my speeches - I repeat now - that missions are very important and I consider it important to participate in them, which lie before us today and the reports on them. However, I would like to say again how we see the situation of the stock and the Hungarian Defence Forces, and what problems we see, because it is organically related to the tasks that can be fulfilled in these missions, and it is organically linked to the fact that, although they improve Hungary's judgement on the basis of excellent performance, we still need to see how the basic tasks, the actual capabilities, develop. My fellow Member here mentioned Article 5. Well, we are not an outside country, we are not looking at this thing from the outside, but we are also collective protection, and the effectiveness of collective protection depends on the state of Hungary's army. Our soldiers can have excellent abilities, incredible dedication - which they do, and can be seen, as many people still remain in the Hungarian Defence Force despite the difficult circumstances - but this is all lost, and there is a chance that this knowledge, this experience, this sense of profession will be lost if they do not have the tools they can work with. Missions, by the way, provide ground for more modern equipment to serve there most of the time. I think it is very important that when they return from the mission, they should have their place in the Hungarian Defence Office. I am sure that there is the desire that returning soldiers can make the best use of the experience gained, to integrate this experience into their activities, so that it is not possible to go away, but to be sustainable in Hungary as well, and not only when a member of a particular staff may return to a mission, because a lot of people are involved in it more than once. What would ensure that the appropriate technical tools are in place? Money, money, money. We can say that again, and we've heard it many times. Unfortunately, it is a fact that the Hungarian Defence budget has decreased by more than HUF 250 billion in the last five years. [[11.00]] Otherwise, it can be said, because I have heard several times from pro-government representatives, and it is a matter of fact that defence spending has been reduced throughout Europe, and the changed security environment has not reached Europe in an ideal state in terms of defence spending and status, but it is also certain that it does not matter what state such a withdrawal of funds such a financial cut is worth to an army. In the western countries of Europe, if we are talking about cost cuts, we are probably not talking about technical tools that have been in service and are in the system for 30-40 years. At a time when they may have increased depreciation, I do not suspect that Hungary is current last year, since this was shown by the closing account, they would have a depreciation rate of around 28 per cent. So to argue that if this were to arise that defence spending has decreased throughout Europe, I think it would be inappropriate to do so. The other thing that's connected to this, by the way, is helicopter procurement. I would like to emphasise this once again, since we must not lose this ability. Not only so that there is no new skill left or left by the government, but also because transport helicopters perform extremely important tasks, they also perform civilian tasks and disaster management tasks. That's an absolutely burning question. Minister mentioned this 172 billion forints several times. I suspect you wouldn't expect this to appear in the budget, either, as a general reserve, as a reserve or at any address, because it's a huge amount of money. So it's a fact that you can't see it, it's a fictitious amount. The problem is, you can't even see a part of it. I mean, they've been talking about how they're gonna put the helicopter tender on hold, and nothing's happened to this day. It's been going on for a year and a half. Of course, this was already a task to be solved before, and I think that nothing can justify the government's inaction in this regard. Of course, not even a small slice of this 172 billion is visible. Obviously, the amount of money that must be available may depend on the financial structure of Hungary's purchase of helicopters, but that some of them should already be seen, if they really think this is feasible, or if it is a political intention, and it would be a well-conceived intention to ensure the safety of people, that is for sure. Returning to the budget for just a moment, I mentioned that in 2015 even compared to the 14th year, the conservation expenditure rate was reduced in proportion to the projected GDP. It is a matter of fact that, in terms of numbers, as the Minister has done several times, a minimum increase can otherwise be detected. It just doesn't matter what I think is causing this rise. After all, this year only HUF 1.5 billion is available for basic tasks compared to last year. [[Csaba Hende: Are we talking about a decrease or a growth?]] Mr. Secretary. Distribute this amount to the extent to which this will help you to carry out your basic tasks. The state event organisation has been transferred to the Ministry of Defence, with an additional source of HUF 760 million, which, of course, serves to carry out this task. So again, it's not going to work for the defense, it's going to increase its ability. And of course, because we are used to government communication, that the amount that is earmarked for other payments at the Prime Minister's Office is also the salary increase of the law enforcement and defence profession, the salary increase of professional members of the armed forces, and the overall figure is HUF 44 billion. I think the defense can expect an amount of around HUF 11-12 billion. By the way, we resented the budget's fact that it does not appear on a separate line, only at the address of the other payments, and only in the justification of the law is this 44 billion, because, in this way, we do not see any guarantee for the payment. But I trust him very much, because it is clear that the government is now aware of the difficult situation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. As I have listened to you, I have to say that I have a lot to agree with here on missions. In any case, by providing an excellent performance of the stock, this should be appreciated at home. They must have a way of life, as I understand that this is under preparation, as Minister has already mentioned on several occasions that a new career will be introduced by raising wages; therefore, a way of life is needed that appreciates this kind of service. We also see that, whether the mission in Afghanistan has a very good performance, Hungary has a great reputation for slot filling capabilities. It's a very good thing, but I don't think we should base it on that. In any case, the actual main abilities must not be neglected, the ones needed to perform the basic tasks, to ensure the safety of the people living in Hungary directly. I think it is commendable that Hungarian soldiers are versatile and can solve many situations. Unfortunately, the difficult situation also forces them to do so, as there have been such narratives, that the unfortunate difficult working conditions at home also encourage them to do so, in addition to their naturally existing creativity, so that they can solve all the problems and needs to be solved very creatively, so they should be appreciated in any way. Once again, I would like to highlight police personnel in relation to missions. We would like to see that the government actually takes the issue of defence seriously now, because the last five years, the kind of depreciation that has occurred with the withdrawal of this hundreds of billions of dollars, can determine the possibilities for the operation and development of the Hungarian Defence Agency for decades. By the way, Minister, you know that very well. I can see you approve of that. [[Csaba Hende shakes his head: No.]] It seemed to me like I was hoping to see you right. [[Csaba Hende: Oh, no.]] So the wage increase is positive in any way, and it is also a positive thing. And the helicopter tenders will not be delayed any longer. We hope that we do not see a purchase like last spring, that we can purchase three Soviet machines from around nothing, under interesting circumstances, with the total exclusion of the public, so that the Russian company proved just before that, that it does not comply with the delivery deadlines. So there's a question of how the service will be solved. I don't know what the government's thinking about the helicopter tenders, but I'm pretty sure it's a burning task, and it needs to be solved. After all, wage increases are very good, but it is also a fact that if there is not enough for the staff to fly with, then the wage increase will not be enough to keep them in the Hungarian Army in the long term. I would add that these military instruments are actually necessary not only for military purposes, but also for civilian tasks and disaster resolution. Thank you very much. [[11.10]]
u2015-03-04-30	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2015-03-04-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am trying to add a few new points to what I have said, of course I must repeat some of my better fellow Members, as I myself would like to underline some of the important things they have said, which may have been said, but are certainly worthy of emphasising them. First of all, in which we agree with everyone, I think that this may be a national minimum, that the sacrifice of the Hungarian Army, more specifically the Hungarian soldiers, is being done every day, and we respect and appreciate it to the maximum. Thank you for this, especially because unfortunately - and this is especially true of the soldiers serving in Hungary - the financial conditions that have been granted to them, not only in recent years, but also after the regime change, the way in which the incomes have evolved, it is a sacrifice by the soldiers to provide this. Of course, the financial circumstances they receive in the mission are somewhat better, but responsibility and risking their lives are a compensation for this, which cannot be said to be overpaid even if they play a role in the mission. Adding to that, in many cases, this is the only way for soldiers to earn an income that already, let's say, makes them fit to set aside or lay the foundations for their future, but I just wanted to say this as a kind of introduction. I have addressed a question to the Minister in recent weeks on whether or not Hungary is seeking neutrality within NATO, taking a neutral position within NATO. The Minister replied - this is available on Parliament's website - that the concept of neutrality within NATO is incomprehensible to him. Well, I think so, and if we are discussing these proposals before the Parliament today, and in this connection, our NATO engagements are also on the table, then a few words should be said about what my fellow Member, Mr Gyöngyösi, has done about what we think about neutrality within NATO. This does not necessarily mean neutrality from NATO in this state, although, as my fellow Member Márton Gyöngyösi said, a situation may come, that even our NATO membership may pose a threat or pose a greater threat to the country than its absence. At the moment, we are not necessarily here yet, but such a situation may come in the future. But even if we are members of this defence alliance, within this alliance, we can strive to keep Hungary's interests in mind and only the interests of Hungary in mind, and not necessarily participate in all missions or participate in the mission, to what extent it promotes Hungary's interests. And here, interests are not necessarily limited to diplomatic interests. Of course, it may also be in the interest of us to be the good guys, to participate, and then to stroke our heads - as my fellow Member Demeter may have said, that we are the best slot loaders? This, of course, is an excellent and very nice recognition, but we do not want to fill gaps, but to protect Hungary's borders, in case of an attack. The objective must therefore be defined first and also within NATO to ensure that these objectives are met. In this connection, we can ask whether it is in Hungary's interest to participate in a particular mission or not. Indeed, within NATO, as in the European Union, or within any international organisation or federal system, it is possible to take a more neutral position or a leading position, in any event appropriate to mainstream interests. This is what we mean by the fact that we should represent our own Hungarian national interests differently within NATO. Of course, that's an argument, but that's still the Jobbik's point of view. It has also been said that NATO is basically a defence alliance, but it does not operate and does not act as we would expect of a defence alliance in recent times. We would rather focus on defence capabilities, and again we should focus on Hungary's defence. I can agree that participation in certain missions can be a good training ground, since the military must learn the art of defence, and obviously it cannot be mastered by 100% in training and exercises. So there may be situations, there may be noble goals, noble missions in which we can really increase the ability of Hungarian soldiers by participating. That is absolutely true; perhaps the Minister of Defence said earlier that gunpowder should be smelled by the soldiers. We agree on this, but that does not mean that we should take the lead in all missions. Here are some examples of what I'm thinking. There has been a lot of talk about the engagement in Afghanistan, and perhaps the most expressive is that, a few years ago in Parliament, President Karzai himself said that this was a nasty failure, and that the military presence of the alliance, and what America values as a success, was a failure and did not bring prosperity to the Afghan people, only drove the country into chaos. This was said by the president, President Karzai, who, by the way, was assisted by the Americans, and even he considered that this was not a success story. Then you can actually give him the truth; we don't think it's a success story either, because to maintain peace before the withdrawal - or the withdrawal is now, perhaps the Minister of Defense can tell you how many soldiers are there now, but according to my information - it was the 130,000 forces that were still there at the start of the withdrawal from the ally part, so the Afghan forces are not in it, the Afghan security forces are not in it; now it took so many soldiers to defend peace, the democracy that has been brought. After America realized that it was necessary to leave, they could not afford it, they came up with the idea that NATO allies would then support financially in order to maintain order there. In the case of Hungary, this means a small amount of $500,000 a year. In three years, nearly half a billion forints will be paid in cash. We are not here to train the Hungarian soldiers to keep them there - this means a financial performance. I think this amount could have been used for the Hungarian Defence Service, much more efficiently and much better. It is very difficult for me to explain that we support peace and prosperity created there from Hungarian taxpayers' forints, because if we didn't do this anyway, and NATO countries wouldn't pay these massive amounts... - obviously the amount they pay, although obviously we consider this to be a lot compared to Hungary's performance, but the larger states put much more in the common hat - it is also not a success story that we need to finance the maintenance of Afghan forces in particular, the Hungarian state. Whoever thinks this is a success after many years of mission operations, I think it's far from real. Unfortunately, the same is true, I have to say, a little to protect the Baltic, because it was also a voluntary offer. Minister of Defence will tell us if you know otherwise what international treaty has forced us to do this defence, the Baltic airspace protection. Just the Baltic that could be in the most intense position world-wide politicalally, and it could be exactly a buffer zone in the conflict between NATO and Russia. Now, we've taken on airspace protection there, and it's a voluntary commitment; or if we've been forced to do it, it's a new information, and obviously we don't know that we're forced to do it. Obviously, there is still room for further listing of the offerings that are made in our opinion only to please the good guy in front of the NATO leadership, but we need to establish a more responsible defence system. I'd like to bring up the Swiss example. Of course, it can be said that Switzerland is a rich state; I would add that when Switzerland declared its independence and neutrality and entered this path, it was a very poor state. [[11.20]] You have to look at the historical backwards, you have to look at the history books! When Switzerland found out that this would be a solution for peace and independence in the long term, Switzerland was a much poorer state than Hungary. Their ability to become rich may be due to their being able to stay out of the world war and become an island of peace. Yes, but it took hundreds of thousands of troops, a military force that could be deployed at any time, even within a few hours. Otherwise - just to give you a simple example - Switzerland will not allow a private house to be built until it is in the plans and built under a bunker, and every building is expected to do so to this day, and everyone - not just a legend, that's a fact - must carry his weapon after training, properly keep it at home, and have a plan of entry. They were prepared to protect Switzerland, not in an offensive way, but the point is that Switzerland could be taken, but only at the cost of losses, even to a great power, at a loss that would not necessarily be worth it. The Swiss have fully repaid this thinking financially, for we can see where they are, and I am convinced that this is part of it. In addition, every year, all must take part in shooting exercises, and if they do not perform properly, the banker will be assigned to 2-3 days of training, and not only three or four of them will have to be fired, but the correct score will also have to be reached in these shootings. By the way, the Swiss told me that he didn't get caught in the air, like we're talking about some kind of mythical legend. I would like to draw attention to another historical example. If Hungarian history were not enough to teach us why we should maintain a proper defence for the protection of Hungarian borders on our own, because unfortunately at the moment, I have to say that we could defend the Hungarian borders against an attack for a few hours, and not like the Swiss, who could cause serious losses to an attacking army. This would not be the case in Hungary, we could wait for the Americans to arrive. They say that if a country doesn't have an army, it will quickly get one from its neighbors. But to give you the historical example I promised you, see what was going on in the Finnish-Soviet war. There was a very similar, world political, very similar situation when the League of Nations, above all, and the union of great powers in the League of Nations, tried to guarantee peace, and Finland believed that it would be protected if it were a victim of aggression. They didn't even prepare for war, the proposals aimed at the development of the defence and the development of the Finnish forces in the Finnish Parliament in the '30s, they swept it down, they said that the League was here, and we wouldn't be attacked, or if we were attacked, then our Scandinavian friends would help us, or the League of Nations would help us, these were the pacifist thoughts. Well, the Soviet attack completely changed what we saw in the winter campaign in 39-40. That aggression is unprecedented, and it's not just the defence part - because it would be worth a mass - but the way the great powers were related to it. Of course, the League of Nations condemned it, but they didn't send any help, let alone official help, but even the volunteers were prevented from reaching the Finnish front and helping Finland fight the Soviets. It is very interesting that the Scandinavian states abstained from voting in the League of Nations when it should have been decided to condemn the Soviet Union and exclude it from the League of Nations. Today's situation has hardly changed since then. We believe that, on the one hand, no one will ever attack us - let it be so - but we are not prepared to defend ourselves on our own. The Finns learned the example in the winter campaign, they realized that they could rely only on themselves, unfortunately not even on their northern brothers. I would add that Hungary has provided one of the most significant assistance under the leadership of Pál Teleki. Hungary was the only one, almost the only one, who sent an organized force, and it was not only difficult to get volunteers, in many places even the volunteers were prevented from getting there. So the Hungarian soldiers still had their heart in the right place, and the Hungarian government still had their heart in the right place. We want that to be the case in the future. Finland has learned the example, as far as I know, that they have a force since that which has dealt with the illusions that they would be protected by anyone. We would like Hungary to take the same path in the future, and NATO alliance or not, but the Hungarian Defence Office should be able to defend Hungary's borders on its own. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-04-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Staudt. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, Chairman of the Commission.
u2015-03-04-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I listened very carefully to my fellow Member, Márta Demeter, discussing the state of the Hungarian Defence Service, and the socialist attitude of being able to talk about topics as if they had just arrived from Mars, there was nothing to do with it, for them the timing started yesterday, but it may only be this morning. But then I would like to remind my fellow Member that the socialist governments have made those decisions, under the leadership of Ferenc Juhász and other socialist defence ministers, which, for example, has resulted in Hungary taking down, selling, and wasted the complete, modern track-laying team transport equipment. By the way, these assets were dismantled by the then Minister of Finance, János Veres' buddy of Nyírbátor. Where are the 30's self-propelled taracks, do you think? Didn't you sell them? Didn't you discharge them, that the Hungarian Defence Corps basically eliminated its remote artillery capabilities, and there are only such devices on display? Who made the decision to tear our tanks apart? It's your choice. And then he tells us how fantastic it is that the Hungarian Defence Force was in an amazingly weakened state in the global economy in 2008. Of course. Because, by the way, on the basis of a military doctrine, a series of abilities were simply deprived of the Hungarian Defence Forces. So, in this case, your responsibility is entirely joint and several. Then they told us how low GDP-related defence expenditures were between 2010 and 14 - true. Before that, you were kind enough to destroy the country's economy between 2008 and 2010, with the country facing a direct economic collapse in 2010, with budget deficits, and GDP continuously declining every year from 2006; by the way, defence expenditure has also decreased. Perhaps you do not remember, let me recall the words of the then socialist Prime Minister: hundreds of budget tricks that you do not need to know about," he said to his own accomplices, members of the Socialist Group. Maybe you weren't there at the time, because I remember you only started your parliamentary career in 14 years, but here's the thing. The defense budget included hundreds of budget tricks. Of course, pension payments for soldiers retired at the time can be accounted for as defence expenditure, but it is quite simple to see that because pension expenditures for retired soldiers are included in defence expenditure, however, any ability of the Hungarian Defence Office is not increased much, even more. I would add that, along with these tricks, the defence budget has been continuously reduced, and that, in addition, there has been an even greater reduction in GDP, as GDP has also been steadily declining. Compared to this, to ask the current government about the state of the global economic crisis and the terrorist challenge to the Hungarian Defence Office, it is a minimum ignorance - I do not even say stronger signs - but this cannot be forgotten. You disbanded the Hungarian Army based on a military doctrine that you have calculated. The biggest beneficiary of all was János Veres's entrepreneurial buddy in Nyírbátor, who dismantled these tools and then marveled at the world's location of the various abilities. I would just like to say to Congressman Staudt that historical analogy must be handled very carefully. If you compare today's international security situation in Europe with the immediate preventive of World War II, and you say that this is very similar, then I must say that you should refresh your historical memory. [[11.30]] Let me remind you that the security situation in Europe immediately prior to World War II was characterised by an extremely fierce French-English-German confrontation. Let me remind you that there was, in fact, a country that was not now a Soviet Union. Even the Hungarian state had a completely different situation in this sense, there were no military alliances that now existed, and in particular there was no European cooperation that is typical of us now, because even when the European Union was founded, one of the political objectives was to create a situation in Europe that is trying to eliminate the long-term political and military opposition of Germany and France and to translate it into cooperation. After all, the Soviet Union, not in itself, by divine suggestion, I do not know what it attacked Finland for, but, not least, within the framework of the political cooperation between the Nazi German-Communist Soviet Union in which Poland was otherwise dismembered. So today, the political situation is so radically different that these analogues are in no way correct. I believe that, if we look at Hungary's security interests, it is very easy to see that Hungary's safety must be ensured primarily by political means. Getting settled in and bringing Switzerland's analogy, which is an alpine country with completely and radically different defence potentials, capabilities, opportunities, paralleling this with the opportunities of Hungary, is yet again extremely misleading, and it can only be a little credible for those who have not seen the map of Europe. They do not know the current borders of Hungary and do not know the current borders of Switzerland. Moreover, it is not necessary to know that Switzerland's neutrality is not ensured by the high mountains alone and by the excellent military potential of Switzerland, but by the international political consensus in which all existing great powers guarantee the security and neutrality of Switzerland. I note that Switzerland's neutrality during the Second World War was not guaranteed by the fantastically deterrent Swiss forces, but by the agreement that both Germany and France guaranteed the neutrality of Switzerland. But once again, if someone thinks that Hungary's security must be guaranteed primarily by increasing military capabilities - I say, first and foremost - and the Hungarian Defence Office must be able to secure Hungary's borders in itself, this will entail costs that are simply inaccessible to Hungary. That is why we say that we like it, that we do not like it, that we have a lot of different issues with our allies, that can be resolved, but regardless, the security of Hungary can be guaranteed today by political means. This is the NATO membership of Hungary. This is not a guarantee of everything, of course, which is why the defence must be maintained, which is why the various capabilities of the defence must be developed. But if Jobbik really tells us to quit NATO and ensure the safety of Hungary through the development of the Hungarian Defense, then let them count how many soldiers and what kind of budget it takes. We must immediately restore the line commitment, immediately hold hundreds of thousands of armies, by means that enable the country to... - a country with such a geographical capacity, I do not know at all who thinks it can be secured by what forces. In any case, the consequences of what you claim are incomprehensible. Therefore, Fidesz strongly supports the fact that Hungary's security is guaranteed primarily by our NATO membership and that Hungary's NATO obligations must be fully met. This is in fact the security interest of the Hungarian people, so it is possible to discuss whether there will ever be peace in Afghanistan, and it can also be said that the Taliban against whom security and peace must now be assured in Afghanistan have been trained by the Americans, precisely against the Soviets, so they have actually managed to light Afghanistan on their own head - all of this can be said. But to ensure Hungarian security, national security, peace of mind within NATO's bond and in compliance with international obligations, I believe that this is indisputable. That's why Fidesz is very supportive of this. And we really understand the national romantic ideas of pro patria et libertate, and the Kuruc Free Teams fought off the labs. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: I still had the opposite. Dr. Gábor Staudt: There were still labs.]] For the record, that didn't work either, so they must have noticed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-03-04-34	Thank you, Congressman, President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, At the request of the author, we will take a five-minute break. [[Break: 11.36-11.40President: Lezszak SándorMessenger: Schmuck Erzsébet and László Földi]]
u2015-03-04-35	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2015-03-04-36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I do not see my colleague Kósa, I would like to answer him. On the one hand, if you believe that socialist governments have squandered the property of the defence in a manner that is deemed treasonable, then where are the criminal proceedings? Where are the reports from which convictions could or should have been made? We agree with that. So this is treason, what they did. We don't see accountability. Talking is easy, acting seems harder. Yes, Switzerland is a good example even if its terrain is different. But just because we're not surrounded by mountains at the moment doesn't mean we shouldn't raise our hands, the Swiss army of 600,000 and the Hungarian army of 3-5 thousand are still at an unparalleled distance from each other. [[Lajos Kósa enters the Chamber.]] So we still need to improve the defence by not having the same diplomatic or relief conditions as Switzerland. I also have to tell my colleague, Mr Kósa, that until 39 the Finns and many of the Finns have said exactly the same thing as you, on the one hand, that a great alliance is a guarantee of protection, we do not need to spend, we do not know, we are a small country, the Soviet Union will not start, but if it starts, we will not be able to do anything, and others will protect us. The same was said in the Finnish Parliament in the late 30s. Of course, the slaps in history made them realize, and by the way, the Finns are also an open state, look at too many mountains towards the Soviet Union at that time there were no more snow fields. Let me tell you one more thing: if you say that in order to protect Hungary, hundreds of thousands of soldiers are needed, will the Americans send those hundreds of thousands of soldiers here when we are under attack? 'Cause that's what we're hoping for. Well, if that's what we trust, then I think we'll be very disappointed once that happens. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-04-37	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-03-04-38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am glad that President Kósa has returned to the room because we are looking at it because I do not know what you mean before 2010 as destruction. To develop the papal base airport, to go there with the heavy-air transport regiment, and to create this ability in Hungary? Or do you mean the development of Kecskemét airport? You mean the barracks reconstruction program? Of which, by the way, the state-of-the-art barracks was handed over to TEK free of charge - I would add - the Maléter Pál barracks; I would like to congratulate the government on this, by the way. Or do you mean, say, that the Gripens had to be NATO-compatible, and did they succeed after they were able to obtain them without being NATO-compatible? Or do you mean the car procurement program? Or you're thinking about improvements, which the government itself says a lot of times, that the drones are also a credit to this government; it's worth checking out when these developments started. But I think it's up to every government to add the maximum, by the way. There is no such thing as the front of the house - the Hungarian defence has never been overfunded in Hungary, I think that is the case, but - the Hungarian defence budget has never fallen below 1 percent of GDP. This is the amount that would be necessary at the very least to ensure that the ability to function can be maintained at all. I also protested in the budget that despite the fact that a very minimal increase in numbers could be detected, but it was promised that the budget for defence would increase by 0.1 per cent of GDP from 2016. This was brought up to 2015 after the Welsh summit. We don't have 0.1 percent! And I think that what they've done to the budget over the last five years and, among other things, that people who have served their lives have been deprived of their retirement status and have been humiliated.
u2015-03-04-39	Thank you, Congresswoman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, Chairman of the Commission, Fidesz.
u2015-03-04-40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me remind my fellow Member, however, that, when Fidesz began to govern the country in 2010, Hungary, according to all international rating agencies, was in a state, or very close to, Greece, with a huge budgetary hole of more than 4 percent of GDP, which you did not include in the budget, so that, thanks to this government, it was constantly, five years ago, with a shrinking economy, an unfunded pension system, and, by the way, the country was subjected to an infringement procedure throughout your administration, and an over-deficit procedure, which, by the way, could be avoided thanks to this government and this joint effort. If you call this destruction, then I understand why the governing of the socialists between 2002 and 2010 is a country building for you, because if you destroy the systems, you will see it as building, if you build, stabilize, maintain a budgetary balance, and destroy it. This is not surprising, since such thinking is not far from socialist logic. Remember, socialist democracy means that there is a dictatorship, socialist morality means that there is total moral debauchery, socialist morality means that there is an amorality in society, socialist work means that there is no one working and the rest. So it's not far from your thinking, or it hasn't been far from you before. But without a doubt, your government has played a decisive role in the reduction of many of the military's capabilities. By the way, there is no doubt that certain airports, e.g. airports that are suitable for the reception of heavy-air transport vehicles, represent an important NATO-compatible capability for the country, but you also know that we do not have so many heavy-air transport vehicles belonging to the Hungarian Defence Office. We did this for the Americans, actually, but specifically, we don't have a piece of this equipment, not a single piece. We've developed this ability for the Americans. It's okay, I'm not criticizing it, but let's not miss the fact that in the meantime, you've destroyed our artillery, destroyed our armored power, destroyed our team transport equipment, all of them, and the tools that have been used to modernize the various armies, otherwise, at the forefront of the world. So much for your defence policy, while, by the way, there is no doubt that, once again, you have used a budget trick. If we are now calculating the tricks that you have used, but we don't want to use it, then we too can improve our defence expenditure to 1 percent of GDP, but we do not want to live with such fraud. After all, it is clear from the fact that the early retirement of soldiers to make their pension payments out of defence expenditure and to account for it under HM, it is a budget trick. That's what Ferenc Gyurcsány used to talk about. The old debate is that you are criticising the abolition of the early retirement pension system, and I do not think it is worth doing it again. One thing is certain: today, the pension system is uniform, and today there are no anomalies that have occurred during your administration when a young man retired at the age of 35 from old age was, by the way, from the military. I think - stressing once again - about the presentation, because there is one presentation that I am asking the House to accept this proposal despite all the prompt debates, and the Hungarian Parliament should vote in favour of the report on the performance of the foreign mission tasks of Hungarian soldiers. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.50]]
u2015-03-04-41	Thank you, Congressman, President of the Commission. I will ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The joint general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Csaba Hende, Minister for Defence, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have a 30-minute time frame, Minister.
u2015-03-04-42	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I admit that I am in a difficult situation, I did not expect to have such a moody and undeserving debate here and there after my expo, where there are many unconceived thoughts, speaking with the poet's voice, and I am in despair of the effect that this has had on the audience following the extremely ill-behaved speeches. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]] Allow me to respond to certain elements of the multi-hour debate, simply to correct errors resulting from ignorance, ignorance or even deliberate slippage, at least material errors, and to give the opportunity to highly respected students, television viewers, to develop their own views and to interpret what has been said here at all. Márton Gyöngyösi, in his speech, complained that the Parliament did not decide on the military missions described in today's report, but only the government reported to Parliament after its decision. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that this is not the case at all. There are military missions that are decided by the government, which are governed by the constitutional amendment established in 1998 and, as a result, by the new Fundamental Law. These are our military missions launched by international organisations, NATO, UN and EU missions. Indeed, according to the political consensus of 98 - your party did not yet exist - the political forces unanimously handed over the decision to the government, and the Parliament itself maintained a two-thirds majority decision on matters beyond that. These include, for example, possible Hungarian participation in the mission against the Islamic State today. So the congressman is mistaken. The congressman said that the person who believes in Article 5 in a piece of paper was chasing illusions or not normal. I'm shocked, Congressman. NATO, founded in Washington in 1949, is the most successful military alliance in the history of the world. There is no example that for such a long time - since this alliance has existed for 66 years - a military alliance could have provided 100% security - there is no such thing in the history of mankind! - to all its members. Because what's article 5 of the D.C. contract about? This is about, honourable Member, that any member of NATO, whether small, large or medium-sized, should it be an external attack or a threat, all the other Member States consider this attack to be a direct attack on themselves and, in effect, to automatically engage in action against the aggressor. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] NATO, as I said, has 28 Member States, and there are also very small and militaryly modest Member States. We can think of Luxembourg, whose location is favourable, but its military strength is low, or Iceland, which is already in a slightly worse place, but it also has little military power, and no one has attacked these countries in recent decades. Not because no one in that state of power today - let us add, thank God - would dare to face the united forces of the 28 Member States, including the United States, Great Britain, France, Germany and, of course, Hungary. How can you say that this security guarantee is a piece of paper, Congressman? That's amazing. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] The congressman says that in the age of asymmetric warfare, military capabilities no longer matter. I would ask you to subject this to a thorough investigation, and I suggest that you reconsider your position. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] The congressman says that only in a single-pole world order would our NATO membership make sense, in a multipolar world order, meaningless. It's the other way around, Congressman. It's the other way around. Because in a single-polar world order, it is really possible to ask whether there is a decisive power, who would threaten us, what is there to deal with soldiering; whereas, on the other hand, in a multipolar world order - and I agree that the world is going this way - it is very important that a country of the size of our country should enjoy the full security guarantee that I have just told you about. So what you are saying, honourable Member, is just the opposite. He said in length that it is not true that all NATO members must participate in all actions, and therefore our membership of NATO must be re-evaluated. You are not aware, Mr Gyöngyösi, of the NATO decision-making mechanism. You're confusing this with the Warsaw Treaty. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] No member in NATO has an obligation or a legal obligation to participate in any mission. (Márton Gyöngyösi intervenes. ) Honourable Congressman, Member States shall participate or refrain from participating in certain military actions on the basis of their own decision. Let me now see the further detail of everything and let me say that the NATO decision-making mechanism is based on a consensus when decisions are made. So when NATO as NATO makes a decision, it is not the majority principle and not the power of the big countries that decide, but each Member State has the same voice and weight. Hungary has never been so respected and so equal in its history in any federal system. You are asking the question - and this is somewhat related to Mr Staudt Gábor's suggestions - about what neutrality would cost. Here, Switzerland was brought up, Finland was brought up. Not to repeat the position already expressed by our colleague Lajos Kósa, Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee on this subject, I would like to tell you that such analyses have, of course, been carried out. About a tenfold defence budget, a multi-annual mandatory military service, probably for the ladies too - that would be about the price you're talking about. If that is the Jobbik's position, then declare this program and get a majority. However, I would like to draw your attention to one thing, our honourable fellow Members. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] Before Hungary joined NATO, a referendum was held in this country. (Márton Gyöngyösi interrupts.) 85 percent of the participants voted in favour of NATO membership, knowing the obligation arising from NATO membership and its circumstances. So, obviously, it is possible to raise the issue of exiting NATO; that would require a referendum. I really can't interpret such nonsense as neutrality within NATO. I have already said this in writing to Mr Staudt; he has now brought this question here, he has taken a deep breath, and he is now telling us what it is like to have neutrality within NATO. [[12.00]] I have failed to get it out of your mouth, my honourable fellow Member. I suggest you do one or two more encouraging experiments. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I will try, Minister, I will try. Definitely.]] Following the reaction to the better Members, allow me to do so in a timely manner to reply briefly to Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I would like to reassure you that we appreciate the mission, as their experience, knowledge, and experience are the greatest treasures of the Hungarian Defence Forces today, and we will certainly ensure that everyone who returns from the mission has a place in the Hungarian Defence Office. This is just because he was a member of the staff before he was sent to the mission, and obviously we are not filling the place during which he is abroad, so pro form has everyone's place. The budget issues. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You rightly outlined that one of the devastating consequences of the 2008 global financial crisis was the reduction in military and defence budgets throughout the military alliance. This led to a reduction in NATO Member States' defence budgets by more than 20 percent between 2009-13. The largest and strongest Member States were no exception to this, which is equally true of the British, German, French and American military budgets, and this reduction also affected the Hungarian Ministry of Defence's budget. It is just a blur on the cake that the HUF 30 billion cross-over item, as Mr Lajos Kósa said, was a supplementary financial contribution from the budget to the pension institution, towards pension insurance for soldiers receiving early retirement benefits, was previously included in the military budget, the transfer of this to the Treasury is a technical, accounting operation and does not mean a real budget reduction. In addition, the Hungarian budget has indeed decreased in nominal terms, just like the other countries. Only comparison: Russia increased its military budget by 50 percent during the same period. This is the contradiction that led NATO Heads of State and Government in September 2014 with regard to the changed security situation and the tension in Ukraine to call for a political statement to stop the budget reduction at their Welsh summit and to set the objective of reaching or at least approaching 2 percent of GDP within 10 years of each Member State's defence budget. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and National budgets were subsequently adopted in national parliaments. About the Hungarian defence budget, it can be said that the total expenditure in the budget law increased by HUF 9 billion compared to 2014. In addition, more than HUF 10 billion, guaranteed by law from the HUF 44 billion mentioned by you, because the government will introduce the Life Career Act, will be insured for the Ministry of Defence from the middle of the year. This is, together, some 20 billion forints, honourable Member. If you compare this to the total expenditure in 2014, you will find that this is an almost 8.5 percent increase. And since there is no inflation, there is no substantial inflation in Hungary today, this means an increase in real value of about 8 percent. Let me now ask you a rhetorical question, Madam honourable Member: do you know how the 2015 defence budgets of the European NATO Member States have evolved compared to those decided at the Welsh Summit? I'll tell you what, it's typically and significantly further reduced. Hungary, yes, Hungary is the one that has made and implemented the highest rate of defence budget increase compared to 2014. About helicopter procurement, in short, that the Ministry of Defence has done the necessary preparatory work, this procurement is necessary and essential. The tender may be issued when the government takes the necessary decision and assigns the necessary resources to it. You said that expenditure will decrease in 2015 as a percentage of GDP. That's not what they said was real. You said that the increase was no more than 1.5 billion forints. Nearly 20 billion forints of growth, honourable Member. The only reason I'm telling you this is so I don't get caught up in misleading statements and fake numbers. Among the better representatives, Gábor Staudt spoke again and blamed Hungary, the Hungarian Defence Forces and the defence government on the one hand for how weak the Hungarian Defence Forces are. This was played in many ways, on many instruments, in a rather misleading and irresponsible way. And then, in his other sentence, he blamed us on how to protect and supervise the Baltic airspace. Isn't there a slight contradiction here, honourable Member? Once Hungary is able to monitor Slovenia's airspace in its own airspace and in its surveillance of airspace since last autumn, and this autumn we will also provide the airspace of the three Baltic States for a period of four months, this means that we have powers that other NATO Member States do not otherwise have. Neither Slovenia nor the three Baltic countries maintain fighter jets and air force of this capacity. That's how they joined NATO, so they were hired by the Alliance. They compensate for that deficit in other ways, in other areas. Moreover, the so-called host nation support, as part of the host national support, contributes financially to the reimbursement of the costs of countries providing them with these capabilities and protection. Well, we don't like the image of any good boy, there's no pressure whatsoever, in our national interests, we're only engaged in international military operations on the basis of our national interests. The Member has also asked where the previous HM leadership is to be held accountable and reported. You have forgotten, it seems, Mr President, that for over a hundred crimes, I myself have filed a complaint with bodies and organisations capable of prosecuting. Several of these proceedings have already been concluded with a judgment of first instance. For example, it is recalled that the former CEO of a company in the Ministry of Defence was sentenced to five years imprisonment. I am not pleased that such reports had to be made, but in 2010, when I took over the administration of the Ministry, I was forced to order a full screening, and the evaluation of this 10,000 pages of due diligence material was made for more than a hundred crimes. [[12.10]] Thank you very much for your active participation in the debate. I regret that the debate has turned a little from its original subject, and I also regret that many false and misleading speeches have also been made. Thank you again for your active participation. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-04-43	Thank you very much, Minister. I welcome my fellow Members and inform you that the Defence and Police Committee has indicated in advance that it does not wish to respond to what has been said in the debate on the proposals for decisions. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Now it's time for the post-scheduled speeches. To speak after the agenda, Mr Tibor Bana from the Jobbik Group spoke on the 70th anniversary of the bombing of Szombathely. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-04-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Never believe that war - whatever it is necessary or justified - is not a sin. Ernest Hemingway. This quote appears on the invitation of the municipality of Szombathely, which commemorates today's 70th anniversary of the bombing of Szombathely. The Jobbik can fully identify with these ideas, as we have clearly stated that we are on the side of peace in connection with the unfortunate events in the world, including in our neighbourhood. Let us look at the historical background of the events of seventy years ago. On 19 March 1944 the Germans invaded the country, so all Hungarian settlements became potential targets, and Hungary became an operational area. Szombathely suffered the first air strike on July 26, 1944, when only the airport was the target. There's been no more damage. The bombs didn't hit the airport. In the summer of 1944, several waves attacked the airport in Szombathely. One of the biggest attacks occurred on the night of August 8th: serious damage occurred in the runway and in the service buildings, and workers were not allowed to stay in the area for several days. One of the greatest plagues of the population occurred on 7 October 1944: the railway station and the looming factory were hit, bombs fell on Petőfi and Nádasdy Street, on Széll Kálmán and Szent Márton Street, and on Éhen Gyula Square. As a result of the air raid, 53 sites died on Saturday, most of the victims were women and children. Most people lost their lives on Eagle and Weaver Street. On October 21, the first blow was the rear tract of the House of Legath on Main Square - the first issue of Queen Elizabeth Street - and the next wave received the power generator station. One of the three waves hit the hospital as well as the Oncha houses on Akacs Mihály Street. Only 19 dead here. The last wave hit Pick and Grapes, when the Church of the Heart of Jesus of the Vineyard received a fatal hit. By the spring of 1945, however, the sense of danger was eased by the Szombathely people, as since 6 December 1944 there had been no air raids on the city.By the autumn of 1944, the eastern part of the country had already been in Soviet hands, and part of the population, the military and the state institutions, too, had fled to the west. In March 1944, the population of Szombathely and the refugees moved around 100,000 people. At the end of 44 and at the beginning of 45, the bombings of strategically important targets in Western Transdanubia, including manufacturing military plants, military defense stations and transport hubs, began. After these bombings, Szombathely's population was no longer afraid of further attacks on the city, since all strategic targets were destroyed. Although the sirens spoke regularly, the bombers always went north. On 4 March 1945, however, American bombers started from Italy - adding fighter planes to the bombing of 118 machines - Szombathely. At the Vas county seat the sirens spoke at 11:46 p.m. The bombers then circled the city for a long time, and the bombing began at 12:40 p.m. The attack itself lasted only 20 minutes, in five waves nearly 260 tons of bombs were dropped on the city. The first wave hit the railway area, but it hit an elementary school and a cemetery. In the second wave, among other things, a mill, the police station and the police school were seriously damaged. In the third series, the Museum of Culture, the new water tower and many residential buildings were hit. The fourth wave hit today's Main Square, the northern wing of the Palace Hotel collapsed, and the Agricultural Chamber building was damaged. Yet the worst was the fifth wave: the cathedral, the city hall, Bishop's Castle and the county hall were the victims of this. No house on Kossuth Lajos Street has survived. During these 20 minutes, 3575 of Szombathely's 4471 apartments were injured, i.e. 80 percent of the houses. 312 houses were completely destroyed, 1028 seriously damaged. Yet, the greatest tragedy is that 303 people lost their lives in the pointless attack. According to historians, experts, the bombing on 4 March did not have military, strategic reasons, the attackers aimed at demoralizing the civilian population who suffered a great deal and revenge. The attack is now called terrorist bombing. The Vas county seat reached the end of the war as the fifth worst city in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, It is our duty to remember Szombathely's day of mourning, and to fight terrorism always and under all circumstances. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-04-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. Csaba Hende, Minister for Defence, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-03-04-46	Dear Parliament, A few minutes ago, the air defense sirens went off in Szombathely. After seventy years, their screaming voice brings grief to our beloved city. In Szombathely, several air raids were conducted by the Anglo-Saxon Air Force since the summer of 1944. This was due to a number of reasons: on the one hand, they considered the airport in Szombathely, the railway station and the repair company as strategic targets, but also the moral break of the population became important; on the other hand, remember that Dresden was attacked by a devastating attack in February 45 for similar mass psychological reasons. However, perhaps the main reason for the attack was that due to the west front, a large part of the Budapest ministries, administrative offices and economic organizations moved to Szombathely with their entire apparatus. And as we have heard, the population, along with the fleeing population, has swelled from 40,000 to 100,000; our beloved city has become exactly as threatened as Budapest was. The most devastating air raid, which lasted only 20 minutes, hit the city on Sunday, March 4, 1945, at 11:30 p.m. exactly 70 years ago. The 118 American B-24 bombers who attacked the five waves dropped about 260 tons of bombs. In addition to a series of military targets being hit, a large part of the city has been destroyed. We have heard that most of the apartment buildings have been damaged, and we have also heard that we have become the fifth worst city. However, with regard to the cathedral's injury, it has not yet been said that this has caused irreplaceable losses to our entire country by the destruction of the wonderful frescoes of Anton Maulbertsch, and it can never be replaced again. Similarly, along with the town hall, the city theatre was destroyed, and we can admit that Szombathely had no theatre for 50 years. But the most serious is the loss of people's lives. The attack claimed 303 deaths, and the dead were transported in chariots to St. Martin's Street cemetery and to the new cemetery, but since there were not enough coffins, many were placed in a common grave for eternal rest. Between 7 October 1944 and 4 March 1945, a total of 438 people died in the bombings in Szombathely, of whom 372 were civilians and refugees. [[12.20]] Seven decades after the events, historians are tasked with revealing the details of the attack and presenting it. Whether the bombing of the civilian population was conscious or, as some recent research suggests, a communication error, nothing can justify the outcome. For us, whose inheritance belongs to everything that happened on that terrible day seventy years ago, at home in Szombathely and here in Parliament, it is our duty to remember. We need to remember the people we lost that day. At the same time, we need to think about the survivors, the ones who rebuilt the city, and after the tragedy, they started life again. We need to remember those who have our parents and grandparents. Dear Parliament, During this hour of mourning, the Parliament and the government, along with the people of Szombathely, bow their heads to the heroes and victims. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-04-47	Thank you very much, Minister, and thank you very much for remembering the innocent victims. Indeed, it is our duty to preserve their memory and remember their meaningless death. He applied for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group, who will stop the flood? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-04-48	Mr President, Dear House, The Hungarian Parliament held a very important day of debate on the so-called immigration processes, in particular the refugee issue in detail, the refugee flood affecting Hungary, but since this day of debate we have not seen a bill from the governing parties, nor has the issue been on the agenda. Therefore, we consider it very important to publish some of the points that might help us to finally start certain kinds of processes. Since the Prime Minister and some of the pro-government leaders rightly announced the need for tightening up on the refugee issue, 15 thousand refugees have crossed the Hungarian border undisturbed in the order of magnitude, most notably by walking into Hungary in the region of Asotthalom and Morahalom, often walking in on the footpath of the installed thermal camera, which runs seven or eight kilometers away, on which hundreds of newcomers arrive every day to Hungary, including within the borders of the European Union. It can therefore be seen that the problem is ongoing, although this has decreased in the last week or two, as there is a very strong police presence on the Serbian side, and even German border guards help to remove wind from its sails in some way. The temporary results of this can also be seen. However, it can be said that from the direction of Hungary - although many times here at State Secretary level, several people have said that the police have integrated border protection into their tasks, but what we see is that our borders are defenceless and we do not see any substantive control outside border crossing points. What we do see, however, is that the vegetation of the civilian population is almost continuous. The mayor of Asotthalom, László Toroczkai, regularly informs the wider public about this, both through his community and through his press appearances. The refugees and, unfortunately, the criminals who mix with them are destroying the civilian population. It's not uncommon for people to hit the window in the morning hours to call for a taxi, give them food and drink, get them to Szeged. In the same way, members of the civilian population who are seeking work are often unable to fit into the intercom because it is occupied by the masses of refugees. And, unfortunately, it can also be said that those impatient people who have been marching for several hours to the European Union in cold, snow and frost, in any case, do not dare to carry on their usual activities, since their lives have changed radically and unfortunately the authorities, although they have tried very much with the available human resources, have not proved to be sufficient. Therefore, the restoration of the border guard would be an urgent task, in our view, and the professional work in this regard is an irreplaceable task. It is certain that the incoming refugees must be divided into three groups and very sharply separated from their duties. The first group, where we can group around 80 percent, is clearly the economic refugees who come from Kosovo and other areas where there is no reason for them to run from persecution to Hungary. What has simply happened is that it has spread among them over the last few months, that Germany wishes to tighten its aid policy. One of the results of this is that László Toroczkai said that many of the refugees started with as many children and family members as possible even in minus 10 and minus 20 degrees, so unfortunately many people threatened their children's lives. Local field guards, Lászlós Toroczkai, protected many children's lives by saving them from cold, but unfortunately there was also a death in the vicinity of New Year's Eve among refugees, which is clearly not something either of us can wish for. The second group includes those fleeing from real persecution, say Christian people from Syria, for whom Hungary must give all the help it needs. Fortunately, they represent a very small group, a group of between 8 and 16 percent. The third large group is those who came to Europe from Islamic law specifically for liberalism and so-called liberal blessings. According to them, many would like to settle down in Hungary as well. So it can be seen that in Hungary the return of the border guard and the settlement of the refugee issue would require immediate intervention. The question is therefore whether the Government of Hungary has already sat at a table with the competent bodies of the Union, if so, if it has results. Obviously, we expect a written information on this issue. But it must also be said that without the control of our borders, Hungary's sovereignty cannot be protected with 100% security. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-04-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for today's work, thank you for keeping the record, thank you for the work of the staff of the Parliamentary Office. We will resume our work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day is closed, and I wish you all a safe journey. Goodbye. [[Meeting ended at 12:27 p.m.]]
