u2015-04-13-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear House, The 20th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech: Why doesn't the government do anything to prevent migration? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-13-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There is a country in Europe that is depopulated at a devastating pace. His residents move to Western Europe ten and a hundred thousand times a year. And why is that? In order to make a good living, their daily lives should be more predictable. The government of this country is doing nothing to stop emigration, and I would even risk secretly enjoying it. Because who's leaving this country? Young people leave, language speakers leave, people with marketable qualifications. Perhaps this government thinks that these people would be trouble, because they do not ask for the so-called blessings of Eastern-type illiberal democracy. This country I'm talking about, Hungary. The government says there's no problem, of course, but the numbers, the facts, they're completely different. Last year 31,500 Hungarian citizens went abroad, one and a half times as many as they did a year ago, and which is very rude, six times as many as they did in 2009. Most of them are young people who are about to start a family. Nearly half of them are under 30 years old, and three quarters are not even 40 years old. In addition, domestic data represent only a fraction of real numbers. Let's take a look at the foreign mirror statistics. According to the recently published data in Germany, only 21,000 people left for Germany in 2014. Of course, the government can't play ball with this problem. What is the Prime Minister talking about? He's talking about these young people going abroad for adventure and talking about guest workers coming back sooner or later, but in the meantime, they're sending home a lot of money that the Prime Minister likes because he thinks it's good for everyone. No, this is a very bad thing for Hungary, and the Prime Minister is wrong. The majority of these youths do not go abroad for adventure. For reasons of living hard at home, young people go abroad in the hope of higher wages, work, and the Prime Minister is also very wrong when he says that as soon as they leave, they will come back. A recent search shows that a quarter of them don't want to come home. We see a multitude of families staying out there permanently because they don't see the conditions of a viable life at home, they don't see the perspective, they don't see how they'll be able to raise their children, they don't see what's going to happen to them for their old days. Because what are the prospects for these families at home? You have to make a living on a fraction of your salary out there, or you're gonna get unemployment. What we need to see - and now it's time for you to look in the mirror - is that the government has a hard-core responsibility for moving away at an increasing rate, and you have the responsibility that this problem has been getting worse in recent years. One mistake is that in five years there has been no wage catch-up in this country; Hungarian wages are not only approaching, but even moving away from Western wages. This opens a new door for Hungarian citizens, going out - understandably - for higher wages. It is also the responsibility of the government that two thirds of the workers earn under average wage, and there are complete sectors now below the minimum of living; and it is also your responsibility that, despite all the advice and encouragement of the LMP, they do not reduce the burden on work. But it is also the government's fault that the education system is becoming increasingly degraded and that fewer and fewer people have access to university education free of tuition. And note, ladies and gentlemen, that you have not created good conditions for starting a family. Family-work balance in this country is only an illusion, women are constantly disadvantaged in the labour market, and the hiring sector that is favourable to young couples is an unknown concept. It is no coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, that 6-8 percent of Hungarian women of childbearing age are already abroad; this percentage was only 1-2 percent a few years ago. The LMP knows there's a cure for mass emigration. LMP voted in favour of high wages and education, gaining knowledge. While you have made this country a assembly plant, we demand that net wages increase, we also return the lost resources of education, improve higher education, health and future industries. We would improve renewable energies, energy efficiency. We could create 450 000 jobs in this country and give wages that can be made. We also know that we need a tax system that is favourable to smaller businesses and not taxing work. The LMP has put its proposals on the Parliament's table to eradicate workers' poverty. You, my honourable members of the Government, must come forward. Either you vote in favour of this proposal, or if you don't, you take on your children, hundreds of thousands of families who lose their grandchildren, that you actually don't care about the fate of these broken families. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, The choice will be yours. Our employee poverty eradication package is on the House table. We're counting on your support.
u2015-04-13-2	I'll give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba, please.
u2015-04-13-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let's go from the end. It raised wage issues as a very important issue as a driver or problem of migration processes. I would like to point out to you and reiterate that since 2010, gross wages in Hungary have increased by more than 40% in terms of minimum wage, in real terms. [[Moore in the benches of the LMP. Dr. Wind Bernadett is shaking his head.]] With the family tax reduction, 11.7% and a family tax reduction of 5.7 percent. [[13.10]] So wages are constantly increasing. While there is a debate between us on whether or not to increase wages from credit to performance, we know and want to raise wages both in the competitive sector and in the public service, in proportion to the increase in performance. Here, too, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in each segment - not only in the competition sector but also in the public sector - it is constantly increasing in relation to our strength, the capacity of the budget. But you told me the facts about migration, so let me tell you some facts. The issue is important: it cannot be swept under the carpet: not only the Hungarian government, but everyone else, the whole of Europe, suffers from it; there are Member States where the situation is more serious. But the facts also include that all experts agree that the migration process started to accelerate in Hungary after 2006, and in 2008 and 2009 it received another push from the crisis, and the opening of the labour market in 2011. So these processes are worth considering. Compared to this, only 2 percent of households in Hungary belong to persons who live abroad but who are still married I've got a record. This is also clearly demonstrated by the latest survey of the KSH and the Institute for Population Research. KSH published data on the number of Hungarians living abroad in October 2014. Here, the KSH forecasted 350,000 people in the order of magnitude, who left Hungary after 89. According to Tárki's latest research, about 1 percent of private households are considered to be resident abroad; this value is much lower than expected from the results of mirror statistics. While, let's say, more than 9 percent of the workforce in Romania has gone abroad, this figure reaches 2.4 percent in Hungary. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] Of course, I do not mean to say that the situation in Romania needs to be compared to the situation in Hungary, but we need to be aware that when we became a member of the European Union in 2004, one of the most important elements was to allow free movement of labour, and young people and older people to study or work abroad for a shorter or longer period; the opportunity has been in the hands of the Hungarians since 2004 and they are also taking advantage of it. Rather, the question is whether we live as an opportunity or as a compulsion to work abroad or as an education abroad. If someone experiences it as a compulsion, it is a problem, and that is why it must be done by the current Hungarian government. In terms of opportunity, I also think that in later years we should not limit the possibility, because there is a fundamental opportunity and a fundamental need in all societies in this regard. In relation to the fact that the Hungarian Government has done nothing, allow me, Congresswoman, to draw your attention to the fact that the employment rate in the European Union has increased to one of the highest in terms of young people aged 15-24 years, because we have launched the Youth Guarantee Programme in previous years, and 17 thousand young people are currently working in the competition sector in the labour market, starting student work in every summer period where 15-20-25 thousand young people are involved; so do not claim that the Hungarian Government has watched the events with hands, because a number of measures have been taken specifically to help young people enter the labour market and work. There is no doubt that there is much to do, we are still facing a lot of problems, and there is a need for the government to take measures in the coming years to increase domestic employment, especially for young people. In this case, I think that the objectives of all the parties present, not only the government, but also the opposition, are quite clear. I think that we will be able to achieve these goals together in the next period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-4	Mr Mátyás Firtl, a member of the KDNP faction, also applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of the historic chance of a historic city. The congressman has the floor.
u2015-04-13-5	Mr President, Dear House, With the aim of developing and strengthening rural Hungary, the Government of Hungary will bring the rural cities into a historic position with the programme "Modern Cities." As Parliamentary Representative of Sopron and its region, I would like to thank the Government of Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Minister János Lázár, on behalf of the Sopron people and the people in the region, personally, that Sopron could be the first among the county-righted cities to conclude the treaty on a successful future, further development and renewal of the local people. For Sopron, signing the contract is more than symbolic, because Sopron has been a city that has been shut down for many decades. Following the Trianon decision, the nation's most loyal city was isolated, but because of its location, then the post-WWII period meant even more severe isolation, exclusion, by reason of the nature of the communist regime and the border zone. Sopron was not only a closed city before the development, but we are actually a closed city, because there are still some of us here who remember that the border guards in Győr, Csorna, Kapuvár took the train and delivered everyone who didn't have the proper paper to go to Sopron. Of course, this was the case on the road. [[13.20]] With such precedents, it is no exaggeration to say that this is a historical chance and a historic opportunity in Sopron's life, because the Orbán government is beginning a great era in which, for the first time in many decades, the city and its surroundings will have unprecedented development opportunities. Sopron goes back to the main street of history. Dear House, In the great historical moments of Sopron, in 1277 he was faithful to the Hungarians, in 1921 to the nation, in 1989 to freedom. Of the 23 cities with county rights, Sopron was the first to conclude the contract with the government. This is the result, in addition to respecting the merits of loyalty and freedom, of the fact that Sopron has and has well-prepared development plans and programmes. And first of all, this is the merit of the Fidesz-KDNP city leadership, which started its third cycle, the result of a continuous commitment to the city. The city of Sopron was able to put on the government's table properly designed plans that were acceptable to the government, especially in the interests of the locals, with the result of the joint work of all citizens of Sopron and the region, who are important for the city's affairs. Thank you so much for running the city of Sopron. And we thank the Government of Hungary for the fact that, in our discussions, as representatives of the interests of the city and the people in the region, my fellow Member, Ágnes Molnár, and myself, representing the interests of our voters, with their authority, have been able to be effective in these negotiations. I am convinced that our achievements serve the joint effectiveness and strengthening of our communities, the country. Dear House, After the period of saving and then recovering and strengthening in 2010, it was time for the programme of modern cities. We can live in the beginning of a great era, which is a time of historical odds and opportunities for the whole country. Just as in the case of Sopron and its region, the specific developments contained in the contract serve as an uplift, strengthening, they also serve the development and strengthening of Hungary as a whole. In addition to the construction of the M85 road, the historic downtown, the tourist development of Lake Fertő, we thank Prime Minister for his further suggestions, which the government still considers important, and we will do our very best to achieve this, namely: the tourism development of the Levers and the creation of an innovative industrial park in Sopron and its region. Thanks to the government's dedicated support, the development cycle ahead of us can begin the great historical circle of developments that serve the rise of our cities, our regions and the country. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-6	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State L. Simon László will respond. I give you the floor.
u2015-04-13-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the development of rural cities is the key to the development of the countryside, which is why the government has established a programme called "Modern Cities" in which we aim to boost the 23 county-righted cities. We will visit each city, and the government will conclude a strategic agreement with the leaders of the cities. In the framework of this programme, it is also important to see how and how the regional operational programme of some HUF 1200 billion will be used, how the cities with county rights will benefit from it, and how this will help to strengthen the economy and develop cities. But, of course, in this country-going programme, the Prime Minister will also discuss not only the use of EU funds but also the involvement of national resources in development with city leaders. So, as I said, Prime Minister personally visits all the cities, so he went to Sopron in person first, and on Friday he concluded the strategic agreement with Mayor László Habis in Eger with the second county city. Honourable Congressman, In the case of Sopron, we really have decades of repayments, so it is no coincidence that Prime Minister's first journey has led us here. Among these tasks, I must highlight the connection of the city to the national road network, namely the motorway network. To this end, the two-track M85 highway is currently being built between Sopron and Csorna and between the border and the city, but there will also be a motorway between Sopron and the M1 motorway. All this means the involvement of a HUF 100 billion source. This development is essential for the development of tourism and the economy. In addition, the development of downtown Baroque was discussed during the Prime Minister's visit. What we know is that Sopron is actually the only city with a fully-intelligent Baroque downtown center. There are many buildings to be renovated here, because it can be a popular tourist destination in Sopron, if its monuments are maintained and if it provides adequate services to tourists. It is therefore necessary to coordinate the renovation of church buildings, state-owned monuments, buildings owned by the city of Sopron, in private hands and buildings owned by the city of Sopron. Most of these are planned from central budgetary resources and non-EU funds. The development of the Fertő region is at least as important in terms of tourism. This is about the development of tourism in the world heritage area, and the expansion of water sports opportunities is what was discussed during the agreement and the negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it is worth talking about the next station, as I said, last Friday Prime Minister visited Eger, where we also plan to take significant steps in total value of some HUF 50 billion. We intend to connect the city to the M3 motorway by a four-track road by 2018. This is included in the strategic agreement that Prime Minister made with the Mayor. The swimming pool will be expanded from HUF 6.3 billion, we want to develop it into a national swimming and water polo center, and we will help the renovation of the castle in Eger with an additional HUF 6 billion. The reconstruction of a series of buildings will also take place here. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the Eger Castle is Hungary's most visited rural museum with nearly half a million-year-old visitors. It is also a tourist attraction that strengthens and shapes our national identity through reading the Egri stars and visiting the castle. Among other things, it was agreed that the State would transfer 9 hectares of MÁV to the municipality, so that the municipality would be able to create a 20 hectares industrial park. The examples of Sopron and Eger show, therefore, that our program called "Modern Cities" makes sense. We look forward to further visits with the city leaders. We can promise that the Government of Hungary will also pay attention to all Hungarian cities, as will the capital and small settlements in the countryside. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-8	It is now up to the member of the MSZP Group, Mr Tóth Bertalan, who will address his speech on current affairs. Here you go.
u2015-04-13-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, it is a matter that today the Parliament is discussing the bill on compensation for some of the victims of the Fidesz brokerage government. This bill is certainly an improvement compared to what the Fidesz brokerage said for the first time after the scandal started. He said that investors should have known that they were taking a higher risk because of higher interest rates - so they did. Such cynicism has not been seen in the world, especially in the light of the fact that Viktor Orbán has already given instructions to his ministers to flee money. Today's bill can be a step forward, but it bleeds from multiple wounds. He avoids responsibility, avoids the responsibility of the brokerage government, does not answer how the government of Viktor Orbán could abandon more than 30,000 people whose money was simply stolen in a publicly supervised market. He abandoned him because it was more important to save the government than to warn small investors. [[13.30]] How could the brokerage government give a fidesz billionaire broker more than two weeks to save his assets, destroy his creditors, and dispose of evidence? This bill doesn't answer that either. It also does not answer whether or not Viktor Orbán had inside information on the basis of which he warned his members of the government. Nor does it answer the responsibility of the ministers of the broker's government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Agriculture, who took the money from the small investors, who could not receive their dues. And, of course, the bill is deeply silent about the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank, the responsibility of the President of the Hungarian National Bank, György Matolcsy, which has failed to carry out its supervisory activities, as the Hungarian National Bank receives daily reports on all financial transactions, especially on bond sales. Nevertheless, it could have been that Fictitious bonds were issued worth HUF 150 billion. The law's fault is that it only mentions the Quaestor-harmed, as it mentions in its introduction that it does not mention the victims of the other brokerage companies. What about the victims of the Buda-Cash and Hungaria brokerage companies who received compensation up to HUF 6 million? This law seeks to compensate the victims of Quaestor for the value of HUF 30 million. What about the victims of the other brokerage companies? That law doesn't answer that. Moreover, the law is against house rules, since the decree rules are 33. If several legislative proposals have been submitted on the same subject or on the same law by the beginning of the general debate of the bill, the previous proposal will be preceded by a later one of the proposals of those who are on the same line. I am thinking here that we have tabled a bill that would provide immediate and full compensation to the Quaestor victims and to those who have been injured in the brokerage scandals, and this proposal will prevent what you are discussing. Thus, if the Parliament adopts a derogation from the house rules, this bill is not only brazen after our proposal has not been discussed by the House, but also unconstitutional, however the Fidesz twists it. First, the Parliament should have discussed and then voted on the compensation proposal of the MSZP. The problem with the bill is that the final contributors to the damage may be taxpayers, since it contains a provision that concerns financial institutions that provide an advance on this new fund and do not recover the full advance on the assets remaining after liquidation, in which case they can write it off from their tax. This means that if this happens, this amount will not be included in the budget, the Hungarian people will pay it in the form of other taxes instead of finally recognising the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank and the fact that out of the HUF 204 billion at the Hungarian National Bank, which was disposed of in foundations and properties, total compensation would be feasible. Today we have tabled a bill to finally set up the Supervisory Board with the Hungarian National Bank, so that it cannot be carried out without supervision, which is totally unacceptable. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if compensation is made, do not think, fellow Members, that the responsibility can be avoided. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-10	Once again, the floor concerns Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-04-13-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, It is clear that Jobbik has won the mid-term election this weekend, otherwise my fellow Member would obviously have heard a good time here and would not have talked aside, would not have brought up the issue that we have discussed more than once in the last few weeks in Parliament. But let us get this straight, my honourable fellow Member. The whole Quaestor case wouldn't have come this far if you hadn't given Quaestor 17 billion forints during your administration, it wouldn't have come this far if your bank, János Erős, hadn't made this group of Hungarian taxpayers' money. Dear fellow Member, The current Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to ensure that, under the legal framework, the victims receive their money, and the Hungarian Parliament will negotiate the bill tabled by my fellow Members today, contrary to the house rules, because it is our intention not to have a person who does not receive the full amount of the stuck money. You, my honourable fellow Member, seem to be speaking against 32 thousand Hungarians, 32 thousand Quaestor clients, because the proposal that we are going to discuss today is about everyone - everyone! - you'll get a hundred percent of your money. It is not in the proposal, my honourable fellow Member, Buda-Cash, because 97 percent of Buda-Cash has already received their money, OBA has made sure that small investors get their money. So it's pointless to mix the season with the guy, Congressman. The purpose of this bill is to help the victims of Quaestor as much as possible, honourable Member. Obviously for you, this idea is extremely strange and alien. We remember the times when the victims of Baumag, Globex, Hajdú-Bet, you didn't care, but there was a prime minister who was actively involved in this, so that these people wouldn't have access to their money, but only to a fraction of their money. So, honourable Member, that is the difference in mentality between us. What we are looking at is what legislative means, what legislative amendment we can use to get 32,000 people to their rightful needs, 32 thousand people will get back the money that they put at Quaestor, by the way, with the belief that they will pay him fair interest on it. So we ask you, Congressman, to support our proposal. Moreover, what a Pharisee tempo it is that you are now beginning to talk about the unconstitutional and anti-house regulation of the proposal, while you in the House Committee have supported the negotiation of this bill in a different way than house rules. Interestingly, they didn't say it was unconstitutional. Or, if it were unconstitutional, you would not be in favour of negotiating a derogation from the rules of the House, honourable Members. Then decide when you will tell the truth or negotiate within the faction, speak to your representative on the House Committee. In any case, now we're going to part with the slumber of wheat, and we're going to find out if you're on the 32,000 injured parties or not. The responsibility, honourable Member, is partly for those who gave Quaestor HUF 17 billion in this way before the 2010 government change, and for those who, by the way, have bankrupted the company, regardless of politics and government, as a result of decades of fraud, to play a pilot game with the money of taxpayers, small investors and larger investors, which is morally unacceptable and, of course, illegal. So I would also ask my fellow opposition Members, as they supported the proposal in the House Committee, to confirm it here in the House with their vote. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-13-12	Gábor Vona, leader of Jobbik's group, also applied for a speech before the agenda: after Tapolca. Congressman's got the floor.
u2015-04-13-13	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Yesterday was a historic election in the 3rd constituency of Veszprém County. Thank you to everyone who took the opportunity and voted. It is historic, since Jobbik has acquired its first individual mandate, and Lajos Rig will represent the people who live there in the future. Moreover, this individual mandate was achieved under fair conditions, not with mud throwing, not with filth. We got him on the Danube, and on top of that, he said or thought he was fidesz in the citadel, in a constituency where the governor's party did everything they could, he put everyone in. You were present, weren't you, Gábor Kubatov's mobilizing team, former Prime Minister in Tapolca, where, by the way, Jobbik won all ten polling rounds. But not only from our point of view, this election is historic, but also from the perspective of the country as a whole, because it has not occurred since the change of regime since 1990 to win an individual mandate that was not part of the system change. This was the first time yesterday that a new party, a new political force, was able to obtain an individual mandate. The symbolism of this, I think, is very talkative. It could be said that the Veszprém electorate finally pushed a brick out of the decaying 25-year-old structure of the system change. You could say it's a XXI. The 20th century party was helped to win by the 20th century. Against the parties of the century. I do not like that term, but if there was a cab revolution in Hungary, it happened yesterday in the 3rd constituency of Veszprém County. A few weeks ago, in Veszprém, the stakes of the elections were whether there was a change of government atmosphere in Hungary. [[13.40]] And then it turned out there was. Not only for the people living there, but for the whole country. The stakes of yesterday's day were that if there is a steering gear, then there is also a steering gear that can beat the Fidesz face to face. And yesterday, in Tapolca, Ajkhan, Sümegen and the other small settlements, the answer was also given: there is such a shift of government, and this is Jobbik. We must therefore agree that the situation of Hungarian internal politics has changed, there is a new situation, as said yesterday by József Tobias, President of the MSZP, although I feel this new situation from a completely different perspective than he did. And such a new situation for all of us, for you and for us, is an opportunity to rethink what has happened so far, to rethink the strategy and ideas of our parties, and, if you will allow me, I would like to give you some constructive suggestions, ideas, and, where appropriate, a request for this thought. From Fidesz and MSZP, the XX. I would ask the parties of the century to stop the Nazis and the arrows, because this has never led to anything, nor will it lead to anything in the future. And beyond the fact that it doesn't lead anywhere, it doesn't. It's not true, and I'm not the only one saying it, but yesterday the voters showed it and said it clearly to you. So please accept that Jobbik is a people's party, the pillar of which is a determined, hard, radical program, if you will, but also a calm, calm, if you will, in civil style. [[Noise, murmur.]] That's the Jobbik, and I'm asking you to deal with it, even if it hurts for you, because it's the truth. And, of course, you can drag game drives out of the past, some e-mails, some Facebook entries; the game drives that are ours, leave it to me. You've seen it, you've seen that I've always, in every situation like this, made it clear what Jobbik is and what it isn't. I would suggest to all of us that everyone should sweep their own houses, and you should be more concerned with your own wild game; where there may be arrogance, you should cut off where there may be corruption and where there is corruption. But most importantly, I would like to suggest to Parliament that we try to run the Parliament in the form that we should, at last, try to have professional, substantive debates. Thank God we finally managed to hold a TV debate before the Tapolca election, and how good it was to see the professional argument clash! This is also necessary here in Parliament, and not with the attitude of rejecting the other party's proposal in the first place. Let's assume that anyone can have constructive thoughts, that's what I would ask, especially of the ruling party. And I ask ourselves, Jobbikók, not to give a shout of joy, as L. Simon László has already said to the MSZP, but obviously to us too; let us be glad, let us be proud of this day yesterday, but with due respect and humility let us continue the work of the People's Party that we have begun. Let us continue the popular policy that is becoming sympathetic to more and more people, which is becoming an alternative for more and more people, I could say that it is becoming an increasingly clear alternative to the government; let us remain the close party that we have been and which we will be in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[A long applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2015-04-13-14	On behalf of the government, Mr L. Simon László State Secretary will once again respond. Here you go.
u2015-04-13-15	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, This weekend, in a democratic struggle, the candidate for a representative of the government side, Jobbik's representative, as you said earlier, won the election. The candidate for the government side has already congratulated me on behalf of Fidesz on the evening of the elections, so allow me to congratulate the Member of Parliament, too. We wish, ladies and gentlemen, that the new Member who has entered Parliament should represent and serve the people in the region. The government is open to every constructive thought. At the same time, I would like to reassure everyone, with a majority of 65 percent government, we will continue to do our work calmly and humbly, in which we ask for everyone's support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-16	At the end of the speeches before the agenda, Mr Lajos Kósa, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, will address the challenges facing the country. Here you go.
u2015-04-13-17	Mr. President. Dear House, Yesterday an interim parliamentary election was held in the 3rd constituency of Veszprém County. Jobbik's candidate won by 10 354 votes, second by the governing parties with 10,093 votes, third by the joint candidate of MSZP-DK with 7,000 or a few hundred votes. Our candidate has already congratulated the Member who won the mandate, and I will do the same. I think that a long period of time has ended, because in the foreseeable future, we hope that there will be no interim elections, or that we cannot calculate now. The governing parties have a 65 percent parliamentary majority, and indeed, the voters of district 3 in Veszprém have chosen from 22 candidates. In this sense, it was a real, sharp, democratic competition, and this order developed; I could say it was a target photographer, but it was still a mandate for the Jobbik candidate. I believe that, after the elections, we should focus on the fact that this election has not substantially altered parliamentary power - if we count the percentage well, then the support of the governing parties has decreased from 66.3 percent to 65.8 percent - focus on the tasks that are truly decisive, which really affects the fate of the country as a whole. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Why, so far what?]] In this sense, it is already apparent that proposals that require, for example, two-thirds majority support from Parliament's plenary session were prepared in such a way that we had five-party discussions before it, and in four of the two-thirds laws, we have drawn up compromise proposals, together with opposition groups, which allow us to decide on matters of common wisdom concerning the fate of the nation as a whole. I believe that no one in this country can have any other task than to create as many jobs as possible, because the ultimate goal, the achievement of general and full employment, is a goal that can bring real results and success in combating poverty, eliminating backwards and making Hungary's population stand on the demographic slope and start to grow. I believe that everyone in this House has agreed that we can maintain the fiscal policy that has led to Hungary being a stable country, which is now slowly one of the countries recommended for investment, its budget deficit remains below 3 per cent, and it is in the leading position for economic growth among the European Union countries, as we were in second place last year in terms of economic growth, and we would like to keep this place or, where appropriate, strengthen it again this year. I believe that no one can have any other purpose than to create those systems and strengthen them, which will help equal opportunities, which will help young people to gain competitive knowledge and that everyone in this country can prosper. If these minimum goals are common and acceptable to everyone, then I believe that Hungary, under the leadership of the Fidesz-KDNP government, is facing a very successful period, and that is in our interest. In this regard, I believe that the tasks ahead of the country and the necessary steps have not been affected by the interim election and its outcome. Dear House, I wish everyone good work, strength, perseverance, and wise decisions to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-18	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present the speakers outside the agenda. [[13.50]]
u2015-04-13-19	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Zsuzsanna Szelényi, independent; Zoltán Kész, independent; István Ikotity, LMP; Bernadett Szél, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; László Kiss, MSZP; György László Lukács, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives submitted their comments: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Nándor Gúr, MSZP; János Volner, Jobbik; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; Antal Rogán, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; László Kiss, MSZP; Márta Demeter, MSZP; György Lukács, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-04-13-20	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Committee has proposed a derogation from house rules. The House Committee, in derogation from the house rules, initiates the National Assembly to act as T/4347 on the establishment of a claim management fund for the settlement of claims against Quaestor victims. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. The House Committee's proposal is T/4347/2. You can get to know him on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the Rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the motion by 149 votes to six, with no abstentions. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffman's machine did not work, and she voted in favour, if I understand correctly - for the sake of the record. (To be indicated:) Yes, thank you very much. As has been said at today's House Committee meeting, today for the consolidated debate on the bill, H/4027 on the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation. Following discussion of the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposal for the decision on the summary amendment and the final vote on Tuesday's meeting, the 2005 LXIV on the Spatial Planning Plan for the agglomeration in Budapest. T/4026. It shall take place after the final vote of bill No 1. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 15.00. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. However, before that, I would like to announce that, as has been said at today's meeting of the House Committee, the LMP has proposed that T/2305. Subpoena 3 does not form part of today's agenda. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, We're not deciding on a personal proposal today. We are now moving to interpellation negotiations for 120 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Will there be a consequence of the illegal job accumulation of disaster management leaders? It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2015-04-13-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The Internet portal langlovagok.hu recently reported that several leaders of the National Directorate for Disaster Protection at BM Heros Zrt. may have taken an illegal position. Based on the data of the company register, it can be seen that since 2012, the management of the company has indeed been made up of high-ranking leaders of disaster management, namely Major General Tibor Tollár, Deputy Chief Economic Officer of the BM OKF; Brigadier General László Bérczi, National Fire Department Inspector and Colonel Pál Hrabovszky, Head of Technical Department of the BM OKF. There is no law of service 65. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 clearly states that, apart from some well-defined exceptions, senior members of law enforcement bodies may not enter into any other legal relationship involving work. It's 291 of the Labour Code. Paragraph 1 leaves no doubt that the performance of the management function of a public limited company constitutes another legal relationship involving work. In addition, BM Heros Zrt. BM OKF exercises ownership rights over BM, so Director-General György Bakondi had to be aware that the senior officials of the company were his senior subordinates. It raises further questions that they had to declare in writing that there was no conflict of interest under the company law in force at the time to register the executive officials. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] According to the press response of the Ministry of Interior, fire marshals can assume the management of the public limited liability company because it is related to their duties. I ask the Secretary of State to spare the Parliament this slight explanation, because at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee on 25 March, the lawyers of BM explained that in the case of senior directors there is no derogation from the strict rules of conflict of interest of the law. Therefore, I look forward to the following questions being answered in substance by the Secretary of State. As a shareholder of ownership, who decided BM Heros Zrt. the appointment of executive officials? Will the conflicting situation have resulted from years of knowledge of the BM OKF's entire staff? Will you start an inquiry, Minister, to clarify how the leaders of the BM OKF have been able to hold a conflicting economic position for years? Finally, in their statement submitted in the course of the change registration procedure, did the parties indicate that there is a conflict of interest against them under the Service Act? If no such indication has been made, can the declarations submitted during the change registration procedure, which are likely to contain false content, have disciplinary or even criminal consequences? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-04-13-22	I welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary.
u2015-04-13-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, BM Heros Zrt. One hundred percent state-owned company, which manufactures fire trucks for public use in particular and for municipalities, cannot be considered as a market participant at the moment. Ownership rights are exercised by the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection. The Deputy Director General for Economic Affairs of the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection is responsible for its economic activity. In his interpellation questions, the Member disputes whether a shareholder can participate in the decision-making and management of an organisation governed by a legal obligation. You obviously expect me to answer no, not to participate, because this, as you said in the title of the interpellation, could be a job accumulation. Honourable Congressman, However, in our view, those who make decisions and take responsibility for decisions must be the same person. If one does not participate in the decision-making and management of a company, how can one take responsibility for the legitimate and economic operation of the company? I would like to inform the honourable Member that Major General Tibor Tollár exercises ownership rights in BM Heros Zrt. without having an employment relationship while performing his duties. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-13-24	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-25	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Let me get this straight, okay? ! Therefore, at present, the law does not make any distinction depending on the ownership relationship between public and private companies, it clearly states that they cannot participate. Compared to this, they've been involved for years, probably signed a false statement in this respect as a police chief general. Your answer to this is that, by the way, BM does not deal with this, and it makes it clear that you want to cover up and disembowel the case of the highest law enforcement officials responsible for enforcing the law, whose job it would be to set an example in the country, and it is not by accident that the law precludes their participation in such companies. Mr State Secretary, your answer is not only unacceptable but also shocking; it is certainly a good one: it makes it clear that BM intends to cover up this issue. I very much hope that the Hungarian investigative authorities and the courts will do their job. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-26	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the answer by 110 votes to 42, with no abstentions. [[14.00]] Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. The land belongs to the person who pays taxes on it? Are we really that low? It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2015-04-13-27	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, When creating a municipal tax, Jobbik repeatedly warned that it would also be possible to introduce a land tax. You have consistently denied this, and István Nagy, State Secretary, said in December last year that there is no possibility for municipalities to introduce a land tax as a sub-type of municipal tax. By the way, Jobbik turned against the institution of the municipal tax to the Constitutional Court, as it is considered to be contrary to the Fundamental Law and several legal principles, and the assessment of this submission is currently under way. At the same time, we can also point out that the land tax is a serious violation of national interests and can even be regarded as treason. Among the underlying reasons, it should also be mentioned that the Orbán government bleeds out the municipalities, because although it is true that 1100 billion debts have been taken over by the State, they forget to say that the remaining part of personal income tax has been reduced by the government and only 40 per cent of the vehicle tax remains in the municipalities instead of 100 per cent, which is why in most cases the municipal register is lacking in resources, so the municipalities are forced to impose additional taxes, often in a rather creative way on private individuals, entrepreneurs or farmers. Therefore, it can be said that you are pursuing the same sly tactics as your previous Balliberian predecessors: they do not dare to impose this in the form of a central tax, a state tax, but leave no other option for the bled-out municipalities. And while you vehemently deny the existence of a land tax, among other things, it has already been introduced in Mikepércsen of Hajdú-Bihar County. The representative body of the municipality of Mikepércs was adopted on 28 November last year. With its regulation No.1 the marsh and the water stand, apart from the cultivation branches, imposed the land tax, which is 10 thousand forints/hectare/year - I feel that it is shocking - and only small farmers or small farmers under 1 hectare are not obliged to pay. However, this was followed, of course, by elemental indignation, because it was well beyond the burden and tolerance of farmers. At the end of March, we called a farmer's forum, and in the spirit of the usual fidesz courtesy, there was no official building provided, so under God's blue sky we had to keep it in the town or village square in the presence of 60 outraged farmers. As a result of this fundamental outrage, the municipality has somewhat relapsed; to some extent, but not to an appropriate extent, because they do not choose to repeal the regulation, but they want to impose the tax in a lane system, with which they will now want to align small farmers, medium-sized and large-scale owners, after the farmers and non-farmers of the settlements, against each other. Dear Secretary of State, What you're doing is outrageous. Earlier it was stated that they would protect the Hungarian land from foreign ownership - it has long been a fact that this failed. They stated that no land tax could be imposed - 14 municipalities have already imposed, according to the TÖOSZ survey 1500 more plans in the near future. Can they at least protect the Hungarian land from the land tax and finally stand up for farmers? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And will it be clearly banned, will it be written down at all, that land taxes cannot be levied, yes or no? I look forward to your meaningful reply, free of misconception. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-04-13-28	I now give the floor to Secretary of State György Czerván.
u2015-04-13-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, For some mysterious reason, Jobbik has become a comma paripe that the land tax is spreading in Hungary; according to his fellow group, Zoltán Magyar, the majority of the municipalities can introduce this. From Zoltán Magyar, tired of fighting the land tax, taking the baton now you [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] By the way, the village of Mikepércs sees their concept proven through a number of bleeding orders. So there is, or at least there must be, a land tax, as the notary of Mikepércs described it this way, you say. As is certainly known to you, the aim of the introduction of a municipal tax is to enable municipalities to develop their financing system in accordance with local specificities, which can only take place within certain limits. The object of the municipal tax shall not be subject to any other public burden governed by law and shall not be subject to an entrepreneur defined in the local tax law. A municipal tax should not be imposed on land used by agricultural companies, nor on the owner of the land, who uses it as an entrepreneur, nor on the farmer whose income from his activity exceeds HUF 600 thousand in the tax year. A farmer who rents land as an entrepreneur should also not be subject to this tax on a private individual or a legal person. On the basis of the foregoing, the Member's statement that the government is withdrawing funds from the local authorities and thus accusing businesses is wrong. The government has taken over HUF 1,400 billion in debt from the municipalities - is this bleeding out? In this way, I ask you not to raise the alarm that up to 1,500 settlements can follow the wrong example. Instead of a rumbling about the acquisition of land by foreigners, I would like to suggest that the current earth traffic law be examined, which, today, is perhaps the most patriotic regulation of the European Union, the continuous attacks from the EU. I think it is important to mention that out of 3197 Hungarian municipalities, 13 municipalities have introduced local tax on agricultural land. Unfortunately, it is also necessary to see that not all of these settlements are aware of the legal constraints mentioned - see Mikepércs. I would like to inform you that, in the case of a municipal tax levied in breach of the law, the Government Office may make a legal appeal to the municipality concerned, and that the customer liable for payment of taxes may appeal to the notary of the decision, which the Government Office is obliged to investigate. In case of a poor decision, it is possible to go to court. As a further measure, the Government Office may also appeal to the Constitutional Court if the conformity of the municipal decree with the Fundamental Law is in question or, in the event of a conflict with other laws, it may initiate the proceedings of the Curia. I hope that it has also become clear to the Member that the municipal tax should not be a tax on farmers, contrary to his claim, it should not affect domestic farmers or farmers. The decision of the municipalities is best influenced by the inhabitants of the settlement and by the representatives elected by them, while Parliament and the government can only set the framework for their operation. Thank you for your attention, please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-30	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-31	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I would very much like to accept the answer, there would have been one condition: if you had said yes, with a single sentence, you would have made it clear clearly, without misinterpretation, that no land tax could be levied under a municipal tax. However, he did not do so. And I feel another disturbance in the central force, Mr. Secretary of State, because what you have said is very far from real, because the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County has allowed this outrageous decree through its filter, so not only did you not turn to the Constitutional Court, but you have not even given an objection or a signal to the government of Mikepércs. On the other hand, this must be approached not from the side of private individuals, entrepreneurs, but from the side of landowners, because they are intended to be sabotaged, and we cannot accept that, where appropriate, such taxes are levied only on rent taxes, because, among other things, one of the principles in which the whole conflicts is that there is a ban on double taxation, because all farmers are already paying taxes according to some tax rules applicable to them. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why you can't tax twice. Otherwise, if they didn't know or didn't feel or didn't understand, the Hungarian land shouldn't be taxed for reasons of principle. I can't accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-04-13-32	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: 110 yes, 35 with no votes and 2 abstentions, the Parliament accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: "Do you have any promises to the agricultural portfolio that you have kept? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2015-04-13-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to continue what my fellow Member has started, because it is not only that the agricultural professional has promised that there will be no agricultural land tax, but that he has promised many other things, and in many other things his promise has proved to be equally unreliable. He promised that practically in the field of soil protection, pocket contracts will be filtered out, and the land protection or land traffic law will provide an opportunity for us to hold the land in Hungarian hands. [[14.10]] Clearly, it is not only because of the EU's objections, but also because of the solutions. The agricultural land tax has already been promised that there will be no agricultural land tax, compared to this, there are not only one, but nine municipalities, and now we have it at the tenth, and there is no way to know how much will be introduced this year. But he also promised to increase the amount of organic production from 130,000 hectares to 300,000 hectares. Compared to this, the proportion of areas covered has decreased. He promised to settle the situation of the undivided. Compared to this, he started a pilot county in five years, and now he started at Karcag, the former Minister's city, but also his undivided common position is not solved. Obviously, he also promised that homemade pálinka brewing would settle the opportunities of the pálinka makers for their own purposes. It was just another promise. Clearly, he can't keep his promise, and those who put money into such equipment now have to pay again. The agricultural purse promised to protect the country from the spread of genetically manipulated organisms. Not only can he no longer keep it through feed, but the government is practically one of the most important supporters of the Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement, so it will bring it back to its neck. The government has promised that it will significantly increase the amount of land in the management of national park assets by 2020 and, let alone not do so, this is why, contrary to this, the closing debate on the legislation that wants to take away the opposite effect will begin today. The government has promised to give support to small and medium-sized owners and will help these farmers. In comparison, even in 2014, in the fifth year of the Fidesz administration, the Csányi Sándor, Leisztinger and Nyerges interests received the vast majority of the subsidies by 53 thousand hectares. Obviously, all these agricultural promises, all of which have been proven to have been bluffs, lies, and not much of what the government would have kept, and most of all seems to have gone in the opposite direction. So what Mr. President has asked as the title of our interpellation is, is there any promise of the agricultural wallet that he has kept? That's what really came up in me after all. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett and Dr. Gábor Fodor applaud.]]
u2015-04-13-34	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2015-04-13-35	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, I was wondering if there was a parliamentary genre you're preparing for. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Alas, alas, alas!]] And he's trying to ask you a very thorough question, because what you've just said, based on this, obviously, we can't consider today to be like this. Who protects the land, or who doesn't, let's get it straight, Congressman. Who do you support: the European Commission or the Land Traffic Law? 'Cause we do have an argument, and you're right about that, but what you're saying seems a little sarcastic to say, "Well, well, well, there's been a breach of obligations after all. What, then, did you think, Congressman, would be going on when we were crushing pocket contracts with two legs, and a lot of people were losing their rights, which, by the way, they were illegally trying to obtain? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What promises did they receive? Answer me!]] What happens when tens of thousands of tenants and large farms in the fields lose tens of thousands of hectares of land? What happens when we say that according to the new land traffic law, it is not possible to increase the size of the land estate to the end of the world, but must be stopped in 1200-1800 hectares? I would like to say to you that, in relation to the European Commission, in connection with the infringement procedure that has arisen, it is very important that neither the property ceiling, the pre-emption or the pre-lease right, nor the status or existence of the local farmers' committee, nor the requirement to live locally, nor that a farmer can obtain land only in Hungary, has not attacked them. So the European Union has not yet been able to engage in the most important issues, in my view. There is a debate about whether, for example, a legal person can own the land in Hungary or not. What I'm saying is that Kft, which has 3,000 acres if tomorrow you switch owners and a Far East investor becomes Kft. It's the owner, so obviously we can say good-bye to that 3,000 acres. So I understand why the Commission wants a legal person to own land, but we do not want that, so I would reject the accusation it has made in this regard. He says Csányi, Leistinger, and I don't even know who he mentioned after 53,000 acres. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] State aid and area aid are taken up, which, in its interpellation, is 80% of the aid. Dear Congressman, I would like to live with a simple arithmetic lesson. There are about 6 million hectares of agricultural land in Hungary, and I would like to stress that there are 600,000 hectares, less than 10 percent, which is state. So in the beginning, I don't understand how 80 percent of the aid comes out after 53,000 hectares. But the other thing I don't understand is that 10 percent is state property. So if a person receives more than 10 percent of the subsidy, it is not for the state to look for the problem, so to speak, but for private owners to ask why the land is rented, but not for the state, because it is not an owner at 90 percent. With regard to the pálinka cooking, I could also say to you that your spirit is on it, if you think that the normal operation is that I cannot cook my own pálinka from my own orchard, and you stand up and applaud the Commission for trying to tweak us in this, do so. By the way, I am not happy about this, and obviously we will find a way that makes the law fit to protect this achievement. In its interpretation of GMOs, it perfectly states that it belongs to the EU legal system. Minister Fazekas and the Government are always clear in every forum in the European Union that we cannot provide any GMO support, and our Fundamental Law also prohibits GMOs. So I don't know what you'd like to refer to in this regard, because what can be done in national jurisdiction is what I think we have done. So I would like to ask you to be kind enough to prepare yourself for your speeches a little more, and let us try to talk about the real facts, because that will help a lot in the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-04-13-36	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-37	Thank you, Mr. President. It is strange that the Secretary of State tells me that I should be prepared professionally, while you and your fellow State Secretary here stated that there are no 40,000 sheep in total in Hajdú-Bihar County and Szolnok County, six times that. They couldn't count the sheep of two counties all over the FM, and you're here to share the word of professionalism and preparation. [[Delight and applause from the benches of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP.]] So I'd probably show more restraint here in a situation like this. Overall, it is clear that he did not understand me in the field, nor in many other things. I said that your legislation is not fit to defend the goals you set, but to talk about it. I am not rooting for the Commission of the European Union, I am rooting for Hungarian farmers so that they cannot solve these opportunities. That is why we had to take the initiative to get the soil out of the free flow of capital. Your European People's Party has not joined this, the European Greens have taken on this issue. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right!]] So when you share the verb here about what you've done, think about what the statement in which you can deny what I said because you didn't talk about organic production, you didn't talk about undivided commons, you didn't talk about the main lies, the national rural strategy, and you didn't talk about the management of national park assets. That answer cannot be accepted. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2015-04-13-38	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 111 votes in favour, 39 against, without abstention, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Hungary is getting stronger - What economic prospects are expected in the light of the IMF report? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2015-04-13-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! By 2015, it became clear to everyone that the path was right, the economic development concept that the government launched in 2010. Our main critics, first the IMF, then the European Commission acknowledged that the crisis management and economic recovery programme launched by the Hungarian government after 2010 and the OECD also improved the assessment of our country when it announced that last year's projections were wrong, instead of the previous 2 percent GDP growth, it changed the expected economic performance to 3 percent this year. The performance of the Hungarian economy reached 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2014, while GDP growth was 3.6 percent in Hungary for the whole of last year. In addition, there are the undisputed facts that are the result of the government's post-2010 series of measures. Unemployment is at a record low level, employment is constantly increasing, more than 420 thousand new jobs have been created by the government, and the Hungarian GDP expansion has been able to grow permanently above the level of the European Union, twice as much in the last two years. [[14.20]] The government has also managed successfully the financial problems created by the wasteful activities of socialist governments. It restored the stability of public finances and was able to keep farming down to a permanent 3 percent deficit level, thereby creating the possibility that the country that had been put on the bench since our accession to the EU on 1 May 2004 could be set up from there and that the infringement procedure which the European Union has launched against us because of the overspending of public finances has ceased to exist. There is also a return of confidence in the country, the latest sign of which is that the IMF published a report on 3 April in which it is very positive about the situation of the Hungarian economy. The IMF delegation was in Budapest between 21 and 30 January 2015, and its representatives met with the heads of the government, the Hungarian National Bank, experts and some players in the financial market during the talks. The report, which was then prepared, acknowledges the results of the Hungarian national economy, the outstanding level of economic growth, the government's efforts to create and maintain an external and internal balance, and also acknowledged that the vulnerability of the Hungarian economy has been significantly reduced. That is why I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, how do you see the expected events of the next period in the light of these processes? How will the performance of the Hungarian national economy be achieved in 2015 and the following years? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-40	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-04-13-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is true that the IMF report published in April is very positive about Hungary's economic situation. The International Monetary Fund recognises the country's achievements and has also improved the growth prospects of the Hungarian economy, which is a very big word at international level. However, if we look back at the IMF's role in Hungary, during the Fidesz government - let us remember - in August 2010, the Prime Minister, the Government, thanked the IMF for its further services and said that it would finance the country itself. If we look back, this has been a huge surprise both in Hungary and internationally, and they were very afraid that the country had made the wrong decision. The same IMF today recognises Hungary's economic decisions and economic steps. The government that took office in 2010 decided to stabilise the economic and financial situation and set a lasting growth change as a goal, which has been achieved in recent years. The main macroeconomic data of the last month, which have essentially all improved, show the government's efforts and effectiveness. The performance of the Hungarian economy, as Mr.Orbán said, was significantly higher than the preliminary expectations and the average of the European Union in 2014. The increase of 3.6 percent is very dynamic and, in fact, such an expansion was only characteristic in the pre-crisis period. Thanks to favourable growth figures, Hungary successfully reached GDP levels before the 2008 crisis at the beginning of this year. In addition, the rise in external growth has a positive impact on the labour market and has a positive impact on income growth. Long-term high economic growth has been largely based on government measures that entered into force since 2010, thanks to which the Hungarian economy has taken a growth path since 2010. Consequently, favourable Hungarian GDP figures also support the government's structural measures, which have already been taken in areas. In addition to the IMF, the OECD, and now the credit rating agencies, consolidated European politicians in Europe recognise Hungary's performance, and in essence everyone in Hungary recognises it, except some opposition parties and opposition representatives. Dear fellow Member, In particular, it is beneficial that the Hungarian economy is moving forward and showing significant expansion while maintaining both internal and external balance, in other words, our growth is not based on borrowing, and, moreover, the vulnerability of the country has been significantly reduced by the introduction of foreign currency loans and the conversion of foreign currency loans into forints; I am thinking primarily of sovereign debt. Today, the expectations of NGM for a 2.5 percent economic growth are substantially higher for all economists, all the forecasting institutes. Honourable Congressman, The government will continue to do everything in its power to ensure that our economic growth remains on a permanent path, both through the outflow of income for teachers, health workers, armed and police workers and the transfer of EU funds to economic development. Overall, I think that Hungary is on a good track and that thanks to the measures taken by the government, it will stay on track. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-42	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Thank you very much for what you said in your reply, which may, of course, have a reassuring effect on the next period, because, as Mr Secretary of State has said, the government will not forget the priority objective of increasing employment in the later period, the clear winners of which will be those future Hungarian workers who will, on the one hand, get out of training now and some of them can return from long-term unemployment to the world of work thanks to the public work programme. The advantage of economic stability is without doubt that the investor mood has turned back to Hungary, thanks to the predictable tax policy that the government has been following in recent years, the influx of working capital to Hungary has increased every previous year in 2010, while inflation is effectively kept to zero in the third year, which, as a tax on the poor, increases real income in the economy, so I am confident that this process will continue. Thank you for the answer, I accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-44	Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:.. Why does the exclusive state-owned Tokaj Trading House fire one of its fourth employees? It's an address. On behalf of Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, János Fónagy, State Secretary will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Tokaj Trading House is now loud because of its new leadership in February, and then from April there are firings at the trading house. They talk about restructuring, but there are firings; there are firings when the Tokaj Trading House is waiting for development aid of HUF 10 billion. They are talking about reorganizations, as I said; 78 out of 152 people first, and then, in terms of the outcome, it seems to be about firing 40 people - firing. Fired because, not according to the terms of the collective agreement, but by getting workers to sign the termination of employment by mutual agreement, such processes take place at the level of the trading house. Social sensitivity or insensitiveness: Widows, invalids, those at the door of 40 years of legal relations, virtually eliminates the number of domestic traders, and 11 are fired. At the same time, it seems that working on exports will start, with Gábor Trócsányi - HVG, if you do not know, you can look into it - who, at the age of 21, is likely to be able to help with the development of this process with enormous professional experience. Oh, in the meantime, we're talking about the son of the Attorney General? Well, God, it happens. It happens. How and how does management and the Works Council stand with each other? Are there any arguments between them? Of course. Of course there is, because the Tokaj Trading House's supervisory board operates illegally on the basis of a valid collective agreement, and if it operates illegally, it cannot make decisions that would be lawful. Secretary of State, with great respect, I ask you, as a man I believe to be reasonable: do you consider it appropriate to try to have workers sign the termination of a joint agreement as a result of an emergency situation, in order to save the payment of severance payments? Technically, they are trying to move through other means, even using a toolbox of threats, in relation to what has been formulated in the collective agreement. [[14.30]] Do you find that the legality of the Supervisory Board's decision is at least questionable? Do you find that widows, invalids, those who are about to have a 40-year service or legal relationship are being kicked out while they are doing the employment of these new workers who serve the power? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-46	I now give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-04-13-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Tokaj Trading House Ltd. Its restructuring was launched in 2013 as part of a comprehensive renewal programme, part of which is the new management mentioned by you, and part of which is the process which, in addition to further improving the quality of products, affects not only the transformation of production technology but also the administrative processes which fundamentally determine the costs. The company management reviewed the company's internal processes. It has been proven that the long-term, predictable operation of the company, which as Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county representative serves the interests of your constituents, can only be achieved with a smaller number in the future. The management of the company did not announce a downsizing of 70 people, but of 48 people on 13 February 2015. In the context of collective redundancies, several rounds were discussed with the operating council, also in order to define the range of stakeholders, in order not to include workers who would be at particular social risk if employment were terminated. It is precisely on the basis of these consultations that the final number of people with a staff reduction of 39 has been established. I would like to note here that a total of three persons are subject to immunity provisions between those who have been laid off and those who have terminated their employment, but all three have asked for it to be included themselves, precisely because the severance payments you consider non-existent are a more favourable solution for them. As the head of the employer's rights, the CEO decided to reduce the number of employees in the group, in order to inform the supervisory board in advance. As you know, the composition of the Supervisory Board is the founder and owner of MNV Zrt. decide on the basis of the legislation in force. In view of the fact that the number of employees of the Tokaj Trading House is lower than 200 as defined in the Ptk., the participation of employees in the Supervisory Board is not compulsory. The company's instrument of incorporation does not contain any provision under which employee participation in the Supervisory Board would be compulsory. The Tokaj Trade House allows workers who accept the termination of employment by mutual agreement to terminate their employment at the agreed date. In this case, the management also provides employees with the same conditions as would apply under the collective agreement in the event of termination of the employment relationship by the employer. This represents a significant financial advantage. If the staff member concerned does not wish to make use of the possibility of termination of employment by mutual agreement - and has the right of choice in this regard - the employment relationship shall be terminated by termination of employment by employer on 30 April. In this case, the terms and conditions of the collective agreement apply, of course, also to income and severance payments relating to the period of notice. Honourable Congressman, Domestic sales have been carried out by two employees working as regional sales manager for several years at the company, and their work is continuously supported by the CEO and the responsible manager, the newly recruited young workers. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-13-48	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-49	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Well, he wasn't very convincing. I see you've made your point, you've tried to deal with the issues, but you haven't touched the most important point: your insensitiveness, the kind of insensitiveness that is about widows, invalids, a few months before the 40-year-olds were kicked out in a series. You know, I didn't ask when the restructuring started, I said February, new management, April, firings. These are factual, Mr. Secretary. There's a lot of bullshit going on here, and they're factual: firings, firings, and firings. And those that are blessed with all kinds of insensitiveness, without sensitivity. The only thing about new workers is that it would be okay, you know, if, in Hungary, of the thousands of hundreds of thousands of graduates who have left this country had to choose from among them, and not perhaps a man who serves the vassals of power. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-50	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: 112 votes in favour, 39 against, without abstention, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. With the applications of the Hortobágy National Park, Fidesz went further than ever before with the title "Unscrupulousness". Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2015-04-13-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For more than a year, the fight of the losers of Hortobágy National Park has lasted for their right. In the areas of Hortobágy National Park, there have been serious problems with public land leases, as these farmers have developed their own lives here 30-40 years ago, from this occupation they keep their families, and here they produce the necessary checks and their children's studies with a very hard day's work. For them, there is no other suitable area in the area or further away. And for these families, their economy is the only thing that makes a living. The government is constantly saying that it is on the side of family farms and claims to be interested in the expansion of domestic livestock. Meanwhile, for decades, many livestock families have been completely destroyed and government lands are being delivered to their own friends. We're talking about a well-defined circle here. But you're wrong, Mr. Secretary, if you think this crap is going to be taken by the locals or anyone else in this country. What's this about? If these sheep and cattle can't be released to pasture in the next few days - no weeks or months: in the next few days - then the animals are doomed to destruction, or they must be slaughtered, or I don't know, Mr Secretary, give these farmers a hint of what they can do with this large genetic material. How unprofessional is there behind the decisions, Mr. Secretary, where it has not been taken into account that the background of the animals is essential? Where will the animals of new tenants, otherwise nonexistent, find shadows in the summer panic? Where will the new tenants build pens, drill wells? If it isn't in protected areas where so far users haven't been able to beat a pile in decades. Now will the new tenants be free? Or do you want to extort farmhouses, private property, get it from them, and take over the economy? Many are forced to cross the highway several times a day. Will the Secretary of State or Minister take responsibility for the resulting tragedies? The evaluation of the proposal itself is not only unprofessional, but I think it is unreasonable and based on false arguments, but, as I said, it is also crawling with the elements of corruption, or at least the possibility is included in the tendering system itself. We've talked about this a lot, and I think the Kehi test is pretty talkative. And the most outrageous development is that the new tenants are looking for the old ones and, as a matter of fact, offering them the opportunity to stay in the area, in return for the area payment, so it is clearly only a story of the expansion of subsidies. He doesn't care about these new tenants, keeping animals for your friends, struggling with it every day. All they need is greasy EU money. I look forward to your substantive reply, Mr. Secretary. These animals have to go to the pasture tomorrow. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-52	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs. [[14.40]]
u2015-04-13-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I could also tell you that, of course, before we interpret the big numbers, we should go to the specific numbers. One case is too much for me to deal with, or one case is a lot for the government that is controversial or possibly disagreeable. So I would not like to say that anyone is happy that there are losers of this tender, but the fact is that, let's say, during the programme for the farmers - and for a moment look out from Hortobágy to the national level - nearly 40,000 people have participated in the tender procedure so far, there are slightly more than 7,000 winners. So what I could tell you is that from those who didn't win, obviously, we can't expect you to commend the land for the farmer's programme, and to claim that everything here was in order, in order, and that the best results have been achieved. It's a natural part of such an application system. But I'd like to tell you, what else could you have done? There are two variations. One is that the state says that it does not wish to apply, but to extend the contract with the previous ones. For example, that could have been a solution to what you're saying. But if we extend the contract with the former tenants, we will find that, as in 2010, 600 tenants were on about 600 thousand hectares, obviously in the same way, the same will continue to rent these areas. However, since there are 600 thousand hectares and 600 tenants, it is logical that this meant about a thousand-hectare estates. The government, on the other hand, said that it wanted to support family businesses and lower these averages. We say that 90 percent of all Hungarian agricultural land is private, anyone there can rent anything allowed by the legislation, but we try to reduce these large ones on the state. If you open the paper, you can see that there is quite a lot of debate about it, who complains that you did not get enough land. However, the logical result was that there were quite a lot of disputes in the system, and quite a lot of people were dissatisfied with what was, by the way, the evaluation of the tender. You asked in your written file why there are only a few Kehi tests, why Kehi does not generate research. I would like to report that we are not pleased that we had to investigate at all, but the fact is that in the territory of Hortobágy National Park all 762 pieces of contract were examined by Kehi; he did not look at some individually and randomly, but looked at the whole. In 17 cases, you found a mistake you said you shouldn't have signed a contract with him. The termination of these contracts has already started, and obviously the consequences must be borne, and these proposals should be re-written. He also mentioned in his speech how these new farmers would get a livestock farm. I understand, of course, that you are emphasizing this from the opposition side, but you say that everyone here is a new winner, let's say, of the Hortobágy lands, although the overwhelming majority have previously rented something and, in other ways, have also remained a winner in this area. So it's a very small part of you who is, by the way, a brand-new player in this tender. It also refers to an agricultural kft., which did not win, and shows how many animals remained without pasture in its written question. Yeah, it's just that kft. You filed an invalid application, and you won a young farmer against him! I can't help it: if you submit an invalid application, you can't match the sign, so ergo won't win. All in all, I can say that I personally accept the ode of being a kft. Instead, a young farmer should win this land or anything else. By the way, more than a thousand young farmers won the land in the programme for farmers. Please accept my answer, Congressman. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-13-54	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-55	The problem is far more serious than accepting this misconception in response to the Secretary of State. It would have been acceptable only to say that the committee of inquiry that Jobbik has initiated in this case will be signed and supported; otherwise, I encourage our opposition and pro-government representatives to do so. I think the weight of the case certainly justifies that. What I could have accepted was that if you had announced that all the applications would be reviewed, that you would have adopted a new legislation that would rule out future such cases, and that the Minister would have finally gone down to these families, that he would have looked them in the eye personally, apologized for destroying their existence, that he had ruined the decades of work that had been invested in keeping animals. In other words, Mr Secretary, I think you should take the responsibility of keeping these many thousand animals, as it carries a risk to the national economy if you now have to take this stock of high genetic value to the slaughterhouse. So I can't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-13-56	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: 109 yes, 40 with no vote and 1 abstention, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, there has been a marked increase in the number and quality of government efforts for rural development. Local products, craftsmen and farmland products are also renaissance. More than 200 producer markets have already been delivered. The number of registered small farmers has doubled, today it is more than ten thousand. Those who go to the market can see that in addition to the sale of locally produced raw materials, we often encounter processed products, the production of which is essential for farmers to invest. However, after the company's value-enhancing investment, processed demanding products have better profitability than unprocessed products. In 2014, the government was able to establish a rural development programme with a completely new perspective compared to the rural development programme typical of the previous EU financial cycle. Putting family farms in a position not only improves the competitiveness of the narrow family and their business, but also the environment, as local jobs can be created as a result of growth. For Hungarian family farmers and young farmers, it is important that the tendering system is transparent and that their products are able to market in a competitive capacity even in processed form in the future. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what support will be given to help young and family farmers in the market in the future. I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-13-58	I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Kis.
u2015-04-13-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The rural development programme 2014-2020 provides more development opportunities for both family and young farmers compared to the next period. In addition, we want to give priority to the support of young farmers and to the labour-intensive sectors that are typically popular among family farms, such as livestock farming, gardening, fruit and vegetables, and the development of the related food industry. About young farmers in just one sentence: for the period 2007-13, the then government wanted to provide only a few billion forints, which it was clear that there would be little at the time of the first aid application. Obviously, taking this into account, we will try to provide more than ten times as much support to young farmers in the next period. But in addition to being available in a tendering system, we also want to provide support to improve the security of production and the security of income by putting family farmers in a position. The Member also referred to the development of the food industry and the development of certain market outlets. We have thought of this in a separate measure in this programme. The short supply chain sub-programme provides an opportunity for producers and small producers who can supply locally produced food for local needs, thereby ensuring that income remains in place. With regard to young farmers, we also planned a new thematic sub-programme within the rural development programme. Out of the budget of more than HUF 1250 billion, a significant sum, nearly HUF 78 billion, is intended as support only for the start-up and improvement of the viability of young farmers. [[14.50]] There are therefore two parts of support for young farmers, one of which will be able to apply for the amounts needed to start up the business, as in the previous period, for a maximum amount of EUR 40 000 - this will be an invitation to tender - and, in addition, for young farmers to apply for certain types of investment aid, irrigation development, livestock production, the development of gardens and food industry developments. They will have their own special funding framework, and they alone will have these frameworks. Based on the experience of the past period, a multiple screening system will also be introduced in order to ensure that these subsidies are actually allocated to suitable and professional young people. In addition to rural development resources, the government still has the opportunity to provide additional support from the first pillar of the common agricultural policy in the framework of a maximum five-year measure for young people up to 2020 which will provide additional support for young people up to 90 hectares. But in addition to subsidies, the government's priority is also to reduce the administrative burden on family farmers significantly, so that the previous system of procedures is replaced by a completely new one. To this end, a simpler, more transparent and a well-established system will be introduced for other operational programmes. In order to help finance, financial instruments and the possibility of adding an advance will be provided in the rural development programme, which will achieve the government's objective of providing these funds to small and medium-sized family farmers and young people. Thank you very much. I hope I have given reassuring answers to the Member's questions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-60	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is comforting to me what you have been able to say about the future affairs of subsidies, because I come from a farmland area where agriculture has a long tradition of both arable land and fruit and vegetables. I also think it is very important to say that this week we will be handing over the first small fruit processor that has already been built in this system. This area needs to be able to process the fruits and vegetables produced here locally and to market them. This gives not only families but also the environment a very serious opportunity to jump out. I believe that if we can support this properly, then young farmers will remain in place and the population-preservation power of the countryside will increase. Thank you for your answer, Mr Secretary, and I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2015-04-13-62	Dear Parliament, László Varju, an independent representative, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: "In the name of fairness, is it unfair? It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2015-04-13-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It is the right of Members, but also their duty, to participate actively in Parliament's work and to represent their constituents. From 1990 on, in each election cycle, MEPs submitted hundreds of legislative proposals, the majority of which were one or two paragraph motions. During the previous period, there were around 100 bill proposals per cycle that were also adopted, and it should be pointed out that in the series of proposals adopted, either during the Medgyessy period or during the Gyurcsány government, opposition motions were successful in many cases, and the Parliament voted in favour of them. This practice changed in all respects after 2010. On the one hand, opposition representatives' proposals are not even on the agenda, but the more important thing is that these own proposals are all trying to make friends richer and serve their livelihoods. I would like to give you some examples. For example, when we talked about Zsolt Borkai's running as mayor's candidate, or when the former President of the Central Bank of Járai was put in a better position by the bill on health insurance tax, or, for example, Minister Lazarus' initiative on tobacco trading, and the most beautiful one was Andy Vajna, who was given unique opportunities to organise online gambling. While friends were at first placed in a more favorable position, they now have their opposition initiatives. These include, for example, the time when RTL Klub was specifically put at a disadvantage with a very high advertising tax rate. Let me now remind you, without listing, of the latest legislative gem, the Trade Act, in which the title of which talks about fair market conduct, but unfairly puts the CBA in a better position. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State how the ideas submitted by the majority of governments are related to the government's legislative programme, since these objectives are not included anywhere in the programme submitted in advance. Do you support this form of legislation, which ignores all forms of reconciliation of interests? And how long, with the support of the Ministry of Justice, will you continue with unfair lawmaking in the name of integrity? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2015-04-13-64	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2015-04-13-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We have had this debate several times here in Parliament, so I would like to quote to you now Article 6 (1) of the Fundamental Law, which defines who are entitled to initiate a law. The Act may be initiated by the President of the Republic, the Government, Parliamentary Committee or Parliamentary Representative. In addition, Article 4 (1) of the Fundamental Law provides that the rights and obligations of Members of Parliament are equal, their activities are carried out in the public interest and cannot be ordered in this respect. The government as the executive authority and the Parliament as legislator are two separate branches of power, and as a member of the Parliament, the inalienable right of the legislative initiative is the inalienable right of the Member. That is, the government and the Members of Parliament are only entitled to submit the bill, and the legislation is the competence of the Parliament. Therefore, the individual motions tabled by Members of Parliament do not have to be in any relationship with the government's legislative programme. The government's legislative programme reflects the government's legislative ideas. This regulation is named because, in continental practice, governments are the parliamentary actors that use most of the legislative initiatives. It is therefore appropriate for this House to be informed in advance of their subject matter, the expected date of submission of proposals and the need for adoption. The legislator considered it necessary only for the government to provide prior information on the legislative initiative plans for that period and to bring them into line with the government's objectives. In addition to the law initiated by the Member of Parliament, the laws which the President of the Republic and the parliamentary committee intend to initiate do not need to be informed in advance. As regards personalised legislation, I would like to recall that on 22 December 2003 the President of the Republic of Ferenc Mádl sent his submission to the President of the Constitutional Court on the law presented and adopted by your former political group, which was only known as lex Szász. In its submission to the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic objected to personalised legislation and also to the lack of consultation. The Constitutional Court annulled some of the provisions of the law, albeit with different justifications. Honourable Congressman, Thus, under the Act on Social Participation in the Preparation of Laws, the obligation to consult applies only to draft legislation prepared by ministers. I note that you, as a Member of Parliament, have exercised the right to legislate in eight cases during this term; I think you do not want to abolish the right to legitimise Members. Finally, honourable Member, the Ministry of Justice, speaking with the Fundamental Law, says that when interpreting the laws, it must be assumed that they serve a moral and economical purpose that is consistent with common sense and the common good. I ask with respect for the acceptance of my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2015-04-13-66	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-67	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. I would like to remind you that it was the lex Saxon law that you adopted, initiated, that he was raised from the tax rate, and therefore he was put in a more favourable position. This includes, among other things, the category that you act unfairly in the name of decency. Therefore, this answer cannot be accepted. Not even because the initiatives and the procedure you are taking do not fit into the single legal system. After all, they should comply with the principles that may come before this House. And all of this is done by bringing them here with the support of the Attorney General. That's why it's your responsibility what's happening. For this reason, I think it reflects your position, and it will be with your support, which you will have to deal with. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2015-04-13-68	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:, Why does the government assist in the pursuit of MET? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-13-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The LMP was talking about matters in the countryside earlier, and we would like to talk to you about another key area, an area where the government is constantly deceiving Hungarian people. If we observe what's going on in this country in terms of energy, it's a scandal. [[György Balla: Renovation reduction.]] When you are political and verbally communicating, you say that the sector will be non-profit-making, you want public property and foreign capital out of the public sector. On the other hand, let us see what real government practice is. For one example, in addition to the state-owned MVM, a new fidesz cadre was created by you, this is the First National Public Works Company. But there is also the second example, the rise of the partly Russian and partly offshore business circle, MET Zrt. His glory in this country, which costs Hungarian taxpayers a lot of money. This MET has to be seen as taking the business lines of a crowded multinational, GDF Suez. We see that he has a profit of 10 billion forints each year, but he had 50 billion. All in all, we see that since this company has been raiding this country, it has collected 100 billion forints, and every single forint that has landed on them and not on Hungarian taxpayers is all the damage of Hungarian taxpayers. After all, we can see that this company is practically an alternative MVM, and this money could have remained with Hungarian taxpayers in Hungary. I'm talking 100 billion forints. Because this company can work in activities that the MVM allows it to pass with great courtesy, and you help it with regulations from the government side, and you help it with laws. What you're doing about this is completely insufferable. When the EU was satisfied with this business, an infringement procedure was launched, among other things, for the MET case. And then they started doing business with gas in the gas reservoirs, and you gave them active help. This is outrageous because the most important role of strategic gas reservoirs is to reduce Hungary's dependence on gas. Compared to this, we see that they are free to sail with this gas. But for example, there is the electricity market, the lighting we can enjoy here, in the Hungarian Parliament, within minutes it will come here with the help of MET. So, Mr. Secretary of State, please come clean. Why is it that there's a multi-party that suits you, let's say, if you have a Russian interest, but there's the other multi, which is, say, Western interest, so it's not right? How's that? Are there good multis and bad multis? And there's the offshore ropes. Are you finally doing something to keep the Hungarian taxpayers' money from going to offshore companies, or can these offshore companies stay if they give some money to the government's nearby pockets? But there is also the position of profit, which is spoken very controversially. What's going on over there? Would you like to see no profit in the energy sector at all, or would you like the profits to come only to Viktor Orbán's circle of friends? What is your position on such questions? [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-04-13-70	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradski.
u2015-04-13-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your series of questions shows me quite a heterogeneous picture. I simply cannot follow what you have said about what kind of service area you would like to talk about in relation to energy. There is a general energy area, and there is a special area for universal service providers. This is two distinctly different areas operating along other market logic, along other regulations. What does not belong to the universal service area, I have to say that MET Zrt. and GDF Suez licensees operate under the rules of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, its operating licenses and the legislation. Within these frameworks, companies can decide according to their own business decisions how they merge, what parts of the business are made available to each other. In all cases, this depends on the strategy of each company. I have to add that, in the context of universal service providers, over the last few years, the government has shown a consistent attitude, resulting in the establishment of the First National Közműszolgáltató Zrt., which aims to ensure that the high quality of service for consumers is achieved at a fair level with the price of public utility services. In the longer term, the functioning of the ENSC can be ensured to maintain the results of the reduction to date. With regard to the extra profit you mentioned, if you look at this problem from the point of view of the universal service, it is important to point out that, after retail prices are closer to wholesale prices, the end-user prices in Hungary, which are paid by customers of the universal service, have been so close from 1 January 2013 that these prices do not contain so-called extra profit, which you have spoken about in your comments. The aim of the Hungarian government is to continue to operate the utility service on a non-profit principle, which is able to maintain long-term and stable the results of the reduction of costs in the interests of consumers. The measures taken by the Government have reduced the prices of residential natural gas by more than 25 per cent and electricity prices by more than 24.5 per cent and district heating by more than 22.5 per cent since 1 January 2013. For an average retail consumer who is subject to universal service, ENKSZ Zrt. will provide him with a non-profit-based ENKSZ Zrt., for such average consumer prices, one consumer received 55 thousand forints per year and for electricity 30 thousand forints per year. In addition, as of 1 July 2013, fees for water and sewer services, waste transport, chimney sweeps and LPG were reduced, resulting in the total annual savings of an average consumer resulting from the reduction in overhead costs of HUF 100,000. Prior to the reduction, the transformation of gas price regulation in December 2010, the so-called re-freeze, resulted in an additional annual savings of about HUF 100 thousand for an average consumer compared to the price regulation in force at the beginning of 2010. As a result of the measures listed, we can maintain the values of the reduction of the costs and ask for my answer to be accepted.
u2015-04-13-72	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-73	Dear Secretary of State, You had five days to read my question, so it would have been nice if you'd answered that. On the one hand, with the energy and utility office, please don't give me any examples. LMP reported it just last week. On the other hand, you know what? I'll offer you some good things to cut back on your rent. For example, there is the 6 billion HUF spent by the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in 2014 on advertising and sponsorship. The Századvég Political School Foundation received HUF 15 million to promote the professionalization of Hungarian politics. But there's also 370 million forints for media ads. Or, for example, there is MET, which has so far raised HUF 100 billion at the expense of Hungarian taxpayers. In 2012, 50 billion. Mr. Secretary. I'd rather you cut back on that, please. But I think you do not want to, because we clearly see that one of the most important sources of money in the government of Viktor Orbán is the energy sector. [[15.10]] You're stunning us with this propaganda, while we're talking about spending money with both hands on the companies that are kind to you. The question is, where are we and where are you going, that's all I want to know. I can't accept your answer.
u2015-04-13-74	The congresswoman did not accept the answer, so I ask the Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 108 votes in favour, 44 against, without abstention, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Gelencsér, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. The German-Hungarian relations continue to deepen. What will be the impact of the Bar Agreement on employment? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It is a well-known fact for all of us that Germany has been the most important economic partner for Hungary for decades, even centuries. In Hungary there are 6 thousand German businesses and some 300,000 people are employed. This is why it is a joy to be able to account for a cooperation agreement on vocational training, such as the last one concluded by the Ministry of National Economy and the German-Hungarian Chamber of Industry and Commerce. At the time of the signing, it was said that the German-Hungarian Chamber had set the goal of modernising vocational training as early as 20 years ago, and could rely on the experience of the world-renowned dual vocational training system in Germany. In Hungary, the dual vocational training system was launched in 2012 with 37 thousand students. Today, their number is over 50,000. I hope that this cooperation agreement will help the government to have a sufficient number and quality of workers available to the economy, and to have professionals in schools who can work in their profession. It is also important that companies do not feel burdened with the employment of students, as they are building the future of their own business. The government launched this programme to help the post-learning position, whereby it will take over 70-80-90 percent of the gross wages and contributions of the former student for a maximum period of one year if the company continues to employ it. A total of HUF 7.5 billion has been allocated to this programme by the government. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: how will the bar agreement concluded affect employment? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-76	I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2015-04-13-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, It has indeed brought a very important topic here, and it has been an honor for us that the German-Hungarian Chamber of Industry and Commerce is our 100% partner in this great and difficult work, not only since 7 April, but also, of course, in the previous period. I am convinced that, in the next period, it may be the driving force or barrier to the development of the Hungarian economy that there is an adequate number and quality of skilled workers available. And if we had to give a definite answer at the moment, then we could say a political answer: yes, we are trying, we are trying, we are doing everything we can; but in a region, in the area of Győr, in the area of Székesfehérvár, in the area of Szombathely, I am not entirely sure whether we can find hundreds or even thousands of people with appropriate skills. So it is a very, very important question that we transform our training structure, our training system, both in adult and vocational training, so that those who perform either during the day or in other types of school are not only fit to pursue a given profession on paper but also in fact. There is only one way to do this: if you learn it in sharp conditions and in company conditions during study years, especially in second, third and quarter periods. This is what the dual training system is all about, and the Germans, Austrians, have been doing it extremely successfully for a few decades. Obviously, comparing a German Austrian economy with a Hungarian economy is not an easy task, since it is a much easier task to adapt the school system in addition to economic growth, but I am convinced that there is a Hungarian model, a Hungarian model that can transform the vocational training system not only in quantity, but also in quality, just like the German Austrian example. We would like to rely on the various experiences of the German Chamber, in part what they have acquired in Germany, and in part a lot, as you have mentioned, more than 300,000 people are employed by German businesses in Hungary - there is sufficient experience here too. So I think that these companies can give an excellent practical background, not only in the middle degree, but also at college and university level, because duality is as important in upper secondary education as it is in secondary education. So I think that we are on the right track in this regard. This is a hot road, because it is not easy to transform a training structure, a training system; it is a big elephant, which can translate difficult and move a lot of things, but we believe that these steps are necessary. The government recently adopted the concept of vocational training that sets the foundation stone, its pillars, and compared to this, the government discussed last week and also adopted the VET Act, the VET Contribution Act, the Public Education Act and a number of legislation that will be important for us to fill this house that I was just talking about. This will soon come before Parliament, if all is true, it will be before Parliament next week, and we can discuss important things about this. So we hope that the next few years and decades will be about the fact that the Hungarian economy will not be a barrier, but will have the right number and quality, well-trained Hungarian labour force. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-78	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Kaposvár, my constituency is traditionally not only the county, but also the region's outstanding vocational training centre, where the economic players and the students living there, students and schools have already found each other. The dual training, if you like it, has already been advanced to the government, but the process that the Secretary of State spoke about will only further strengthen the reunion. In addition, I welcome German-Hungarian chamber cooperation because there is also a significant company called Kapos Atlas, which has a German ownership background, and I think that the meeting in the Chamber may help the German ownership company, so it will also help Kaposvár jobs. Thank you, I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-80	Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I asked the Minister on 23 March, and the Secretary of State replied. My question was, what about the hospital debt? Then the Secretary of State replied for a long time, he said a lot of data, it was correct, there was also incorrect data; one thing is certain: the quintessence of your answer was that hospitals can receive from the 60 billion forints set aside for consolidation, which plan how they will be able to function in the future. Of course, this in itself raises a number of questions as to how this zero payout should be achieved: monthly, quarterly, semi-annual or annual? Of course, we also need to ask why this is the most important question: why the functioning of health care should be null and void, why not the security of supply, the availability of it and the confidence in it, why these are not the most important ones, why should it be null and void. And of course, I also asked whether the debt of HUF 100-110 billion, of which the debt to suppliers is HUF 76.7 billion, and without the contributions, so there is no interest on this, it can be estimated to be approximately HUF 90 billion, whether it will be included in the big hat of the newly created large institutions, and then suppliers will have to earn their way in a huge maze, the mazes of these large institutions. [[15.20]] Then you gave me the answer that I didn't. A week later, on April 1st, Gábor Sombor declared that ÁEK would take over the management and management of all hospitals, and that hospitals would be required to adapt their farming so as not to regenerate the debt; although there is no more money for it, it must be transformed. Then, at the same time, it was announced that suppliers were in a situation other than their own fault that they could no longer remedy themselves, with 450 days of expired bills in health care. You are linking this to the settlements on county benefits, which we see are taking a long time, 13 counties are recommended for trial, and the rest are not. There are still six counties and Budapest - which has a nice press about where this new hospital will be in Budapest - in which we still have to agree. The suppliers are losing their patience, and they don't really understand it, and they don't really believe what you're doing or what you're saying. If this were just a game with numbers or a game with words, Mr. Secretary of State, I think it would be possible to argue here in this Parliament, but yet my question is, when will you act, why do you link county agreements with the payment of suppliers, because they are not related; and when will you pay the suppliers, that is my question.
u2015-04-13-82	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-04-13-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Our main goal, of course, is to give patients the same chance of treating patients all over the country, receive care in hospitals with similar facilities everywhere, and, obviously, an important part of this, an unavoidable part of the resolution of debt stocks that have not been formed in two or three years, but have accumulated in hospitals over decades, and have not been able to solve this problem for decades. This government not only wants to address the issue of hospital debt to a greater extent than its predecessors, but also the issue of hospital waiting lists. This is obviously costing money, therefore, as I told you in my previous reply, in the Finance Act, although you did not support it, but a HUF 60 billion section is in the central chapter with the aim of reducing this kind of debt in respect of all central government bodies, and obviously about this magnitude of debt that hospitals are struggling with every day. However, if the government considered the settlement of this debt a simple question, a simple reference question, it would not be possible to prevent its long-term re-production. After all, if you pay it once, but if you continue to generate new debts from month to month, then this question will come up again and again in a year, five years from now, ten years from now. That is why we are linking many other issues to the resolution of hospital debt. In particular, by allowing the institutions themselves to continue their farming somewhat differently, and by not re-producing these debts once they are helped. But, of course, this will not be the first area where the government paid off the debts and redeemed them. This was the case in the municipalities, so it was in the sports associations, or it was in the case of government debt when the IMF loan was issued. So this is just one of the many steps in the series of measures that the government is taking to settle debt stocks. In the field of health, we can also talk about partial consolidations, that in the last August, for example, there was 10 billion forints in the reduction of hospital debt. We have tried these items, where it was very urgent to pay and take over from the institutions. This has been supported by the public-law transformation that, after 1 January 2012, health care establishments have become state-owned. In the interpellation that you described, you were somewhat confused, and then, orally, you improved that it was said that the hospitals that had previously been maintained by GYEMSZI had been transferred to the ÁEK from 1 April to the State Health Care Center. This was a comprehensive transformation of the background institutional organisation: 12 out of 17 institutions remained, or were transformed into so many, united, in order to make each responsibility clearer, and thus transferred the institutions to the ÁEK. Of course, it remains our task to take measures to improve the management of hospitals. This has already been done in centralised procurement of medicines and energy, building a structure to streamline patient care tasks, making good use of funding opportunities and monitoring the management activities. All of these have been done so far by the government and has created county health conciliation committees, to which you have referred, so that precisely the structural issues, capacity issues and the halting of the growth of the institutions' debt are better supervised by the State. Everyone had to make a plan of action. These have been completed at the end of the first phase, and now the supervision of farming here has moved to a second stage, since health management bodies and economic management bodies have been established, precisely so that the latter can see and deal with the issues of farming better. From 1 March, as I said to you, it is under the supervision of a modified background institution, and the HUF 60 billion is included in the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-84	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I thought of two things when you said that. One is that once they get help, I would say the same thing with a different tone: once they finally get help from hospitals; and I also remembered that I wouldn't be a supplier in health care right now. You set up bodies, county councils, such executives, such boards of directors. I hope there will be national coordination, which will bring all this together, and then the maze will be even bigger. Mr. Secretary, I think you weren't paying attention, and for a moment you were honest. He said that these 60 billion forints were put aside for the debt of all types of budgetary bodies. I also believe that as a member of the Budget Committee. So it's not just about health, but it's about paying for every budget agency, every single budget body of 60 billion forints, of which only 110 billion for health. Even you won't know that. I don't accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-86	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 103 votes to 44, without abstention, the State Secretary's reply was accepted by Parliament. Dear Parliament, Loránt Hegedűs and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What will be the fate of the mining sanitarium in Sikonda? It's an address. I give the floor to Mrs. Loránt Violin.
u2015-04-13-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There is a lot of news in the media about plans to transform health care, and while government actors are mostly about eliminating duplication, changing structures, the national opposition, in agreement with the representatives of the profession, sees only cuts, redundancies and restrictions in future ideas. However, one aspect has not yet been highlighted: this is the issue of real estate. Please allow us to give a specific example of this aspect. On the north side of Mecsek, in Sikonda Valley, there are 3 hectares of ancient park, the Mining Treatment and Night Sanatorium. The unique microclimate of the valley, as well as the local source declared as medicinal water, makes this place particularly suitable for healing institutions. The sanatorium provides partly medical services and partly wellness services. In the last few years, major renovations and modernisations of hundreds of millions have taken place in the institution. Thanks to an EU proposal, energy modernisation of the entire building has been completed. The sanatorium is stable. He receives 1200 guests a year and has a minimal debt compared to his budget, compared to the debt of the neighboring hop hospital of 350 million. And this is where I take the opportunity to welcome the mayor of hops. Thank you for coming and listening to this very important interpellation, obviously you're interested in the fate of the sanatorium. At the same time, a surprising and difficult technical plan for the future of the sanitarium is drawn up that it would continue to operate in conjunction with the hop hospital, with the hospital being installed on Sikonda by the hospice class of the city institution. If this idea were to be implemented, the healthcare provided so far would virtually cease. It is clear, moreover, that based on the technical characteristics and equipment of the sanitarium, it is not suitable to perform hospice tasks, which is why the Kft operating the hospital in the city is contradictory. its intention to merge the two institutions. [[15.30]] This leads to a reasonable suspicion that, as in the neighbourhood of the sanitarium, a wellness centre once owned by the local municipality of hops may have become the property of real estate investors, and now it will be privateized. It is feared that the restructuring outlined above is only the first step in the real estate of the sanatorium by playing over to friendly investors. Please disperse our fears above, disprove the news of the planned liquidation of the sanatorium. Or is it true that, in line with the government's intentions, the prestigious institution will be the victim of real estate shit? Thank you and I look forward to your meaningful reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-88	I give the floor again to Secretary of State Bence Retvári.
u2015-04-13-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Our aim, of course, is to ensure that the care of those patients, the former miners and miners, is safer than ever before, not at all the direction that the congresswoman has outlined here as a nightmare, but a more secure patient care for everyone, and the full use of capacity in these institutions. Allow me, therefore, to inform you of these matters. The possibility of integrating the Mining Treatment and Night Sanatorium and the Komló Health Centre has already been mentioned many times before, in order to improve the geographical proximity of the two institutions, better professional cooperation to be established and the quality of patient care. In 2014, the common position of the heads of the two institutions and the maintainer, the State Healthcare Services Centre, was that integration can only take place if it benefits both parties and both sides retain their positions in this, obviously in terms of patient care, for patients. The sanatorium, which is a residential rehabilitation and after-care facility, receives state budget support of HUF 56 million per year, serving the healing of approximately 1000 to 1200 patients per year, as you said. Accessibility is the problem to be solved in order to ensure adequate care for patients, which has not yet taken place in the institution, and this is particularly important in such an institution. In February 2015, in the framework of the negotiations in Baranya county, coordinated by the County Health Coordination Committees, the possibility of integration was again raised in order to make better use of the capacity of the sanitarium to organise patient care, thereby significantly improving the quality of the region's rheumatology specialist care. The possibility of integration and the way in which the leaders of the two institutions have consulted each other on a number of occasions, in addition to the continuous information on the maintenance - I believe it is important that the two institutions are, therefore, in the first place, consulting each other. Taking into account the technical reasons and the above principles, it is envisaged that unused sanitarium beds would accommodate the chronic medical department of the Komló Health Centre and that other types of care would be placed in the area of the hospital's department. The personal condition for safe care could be ensured by internal restructuring. A possible merger in the sanatorium would also allow the launching of the physical rehabilitation funded by social security, thus increasing the number of patients who can be accommodated in the institution. In addition, under the Public Finance Act, in the case of budgetary bodies with a headcount of less than 100, such as the sanatorium, with effect from 1 April 2015, the economic organisation should carry out the tasks of another budgetary body with an economic organisation at the discretion of the managing body. In the case of the two institutions, it was therefore only and exclusively a merger of the economic background, and all further steps should only be taken with the further involvement of those concerned, under the supervision and supervision of the Maintenance State Healthcare Centre and the State Secretariat for Health, and only if justified and supported by the professional arguments outlined above. However, in the event of possible professional integration of the two institutions, it is planned that, in addition to the cleaning and partial expansion of the professional profile in the sanatorium, the activity to date would continue. So, honourable Member, honourable Member, you have no reason to worry, there is no plan that you have said here about any kind of neighbouring wellness hostel or other, these institutions continue to serve patient care with their total number of beds, so that both institutions can provide patients in the area with a more extensive profile. Please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-90	I ask Mr László György Lukács if he accepts the answer.
u2015-04-13-91	We do not accept the answer, Mr. Secretary of State. You're talking about safe patient care, even though what you've been planning is inadequate for this institution, it's not suitable for hospice or chronic patient care. They're talking about how the capacity will be good. It has the perfect capacity and utilisation of the institution at present. They talk about professional reasons, but this restructuring would be professionally unjustified. And it's very talkative that the mayor is here: what do you want to make sure you're sure of right now? In our reading, this is the emigration of another state, the emigration of an institution, as the institution across the street has already migrated from the hands of a local government. He didn't give an answer as to whose behalf it was for. It seems to be for the benefit of no one, and certainly not for the benefit of the patients. Accordingly, Jobbik cannot accept your answer, since there is no reason for what you are planning to do with the institution. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-92	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: 109 yeses, 40 nos and 3 abstentions, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. 100th century Hungarian language education? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-93	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A comprehensive change in higher education will soon be on the agenda. The concrete measures resulting from the higher education strategy cannot be fully understood by the public today, but the news is about monopolising, terminating or even tightening higher education. It is already known, among other things, that from 2020 only a language exam will be available for university and college. According to LMP, this requirement can exclude tens of thousands of students from further education, as there are currently huge differences between schools in terms of the quality of language education. A few weeks ago, Dr. Judit Bertalan, State Secretary for Public Education, said at the hearing of the Cultural Committee, and I quote literally: "In order for a child to obtain a language exam for his graduation period, and even to receive an extra point for his graduation, admissions, parents must really reach into their pockets for specific language lessons, because language teaching and language learning within the school system do not create the possibility of a level of language knowledge. So it is clear that the government is finally beginning to feel the situation untenable. Last year, Minister of State Bence Rétvári cynically defended our earlier question with the fact that students had a few more years to prepare for the changes. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Six! You have six years!]] At the same time, the Secretary of State acknowledged that in the last 25 years, it has not been possible to provide a real and adequate response to the fact that a student who has left school can learn languages at European level. And it didn't work, and except for the minority of students, it still doesn't work. According to the National Basic Study Plan, students do not even need to be brought up to secondary level from a foreign language - how can they use language skills and language exams? As the secretary of state says, without expensive extra lessons, it doesn't. Why, then, do they link the application to the language exam before the reform of language education? Why do they want to keep them away from further education, who attend less high - quality language schools, and cannot afford these expensive extra classes? When can all students receive quality language education, no matter what school they attend? During his recent hearing at the commission, the Minister also said to the question of LMP: It's a requirement of the century. That is true, but when will this be recognized by XXI. Is Hungarian language teaching in the first century? Our most important question, which is by no means a rhetorical question, and we would ask for a very firm answer: when will the reform of language learning take place? I'm waiting for a meaningful answer. Thank you.
u2015-04-13-94	I give the floor again to Secretary of State Bence Retvári.
u2015-04-13-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Education of a foreign language is indeed an important issue in public education. Not only in Hungary, I believe that in all Central European countries, the same questions are raised, because although Hungary has been free to teach and learn languages for 25 years now, this will still be an ongoing task in all Central European countries. [[15.40]] Basically, it can be said that the Hungarian public education system is a priority for teaching foreign languages. The National Basic Lesson Plan and Framework Lesson Plan sets out the optimal requirements related to the age group and the number of lessons learned. In addition, it should be stressed that language maturity is one of the five mandatory graduations that students have the opportunity to put down either at the middle level or at an elevated level. The higher level of foreign language graduation is equivalent to B2 language exams, with a result above 60 percent only of course. The National Basic Training Plan has adapted the minimum level of foreign language knowledge to the B1 level of the Common European Reference Framework for secondary education. On 6 March 2015, an amendment to the Government Decree on the issue of the examination rules for the examination of the final exam was published, which already includes the increase of the foreign language level to B1. Among other things, the fact that our country spends a lot of time on this education in the public education system in an international comparison proves the prominent place of foreign language education in Hungary. From this, it is clear that we need to act not by increasing the number of hours, but by improving quality to improve language skills, as students learn more languages in Hungary than in other countries. One of the important instruments for this is Article XXI. 20th century technology, i.e. greater use of IT and communication technology tools in language lessons. The proper, targeted use of different computer programs and the digital table not only promotes the effectiveness of language learning, but it is also important for students to be motivated and interested in modern, XXI. It is an instrument of the century, as the Member put it in his question. In the case of language learning, motivation and the creation and maintenance of a supportive environment have a key role to play. Therefore, each age group must be taken by the same method as the age group and made them love the language. In this, experts and further training also help language teachers. So we did not leave the teachers alone, but we try to help them with training. The methodological autonomy of educators is fully ensured, while the consultants can provide significant professional support for teachers. The methodology of communicative language teaching is already a basic material in language teaching, meaning that the more people who learn languages in a lifelike situation are not just told them the curriculum or grammar or vocabulary. Another important task that has already been mentioned in schools is to create an environment for language learning in schools, so that students can meet foreign languages outside the course, either in the framework of language competitions, through acting workshops, exchange programs or summer camps, in a foreign language environment, where students can develop their language skills more freely and in more lifelike situations, and obviously even increase their motivation among foreign students. EU funding has been available to help this in recent years, but there is obviously a lot riding on teachers' attitudes as well. It is important to stress that we have clearly defined objectives on the required level of linguistic knowledge when completing secondary education. The goal is to learn at least B1 level before graduation, and this reflects the possibilities of most secondary schools. This is the minimum requirement, but NAT also sets higher standards for advanced training. Our aim is to make a European comparison with the knowledge of the language acquired and to provide the basis for the education of young people who know languages, based on the principle of gradualness. Mr President, this is where you referred to the number of years to prepare. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] in their college records. Here the bill set a six-year preparation period, a six-year learning period, which, I think, is very fair for everyone to have the right time to prepare. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-04-13-96	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-97	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State concluded his reply by saying that 6 years is a very reasonable time. If we look at the fact that the majority of the people present here have studied Russian for at least eight years, but one of us has studied Russian for 12 years, and suddenly this session would change into Russian, some people might be pleased, but it would certainly get stuck. Time is very short for all of this. I would like to draw attention once again to what I have just said, that NAT does not expect them to reach the middle level. You have to get to a certain level, this is the level of public education. Higher education expects a higher level of entry. There's a hole between the two. This should be completed so that everyone can have the opportunity to apply and go to a higher education institution. In his reply, Mr Secretary of State did not answer my question as to when this reform would be launched. This is the type of response I would have expected tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, next week; it would have been the latest time to accept, because this is really very urgent. Without a reform, it won't work, it won't fill this difference. I can't accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-98	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 108 votes in favour, 46 against, without abstention, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. The next victim of the Orbán-Simicska War will be railway development in East Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-13-99	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Minister, Construction work on the M4 motorway between Abony and Weapons was launched in 2013. According to the contract, the length of the section is only 29 km long, for some HUF 160-180 billion, three consortia, one of which was the Public Machine associated with the name of Lajos Simicska, a former good friend of the Prime Minister. According to press reports, the government has been protecting investment that exceeds the price of 5 billion forints per kilometer. You, Minister, have seen nothing wrong with your answers to many questions. All this time, they have communicated that there is also a need for haste so that our country can use as much EU funding as possible. They used it to deceive the people of East Hungary, who were forced to travel the 4th Highway, called the Death Road, day by day, in the midst of amazing truck traffic. That's why it was a shock to people when you stopped the investment. He suddenly found the costs to be excessive, pointing out that they refused to participate in the construction because of the cartel suspicion of Brussels funds; in Hungarian, a forint without EU funds was built almost two years ago. While you're talking nonsense, it hasn't been a day, but the media have already denied your words. The European Commission has not even questioned the application, nor has there been any cartel suspicion, since the EU Anti-Fraud Office can only investigate it, and because of the lack of EU funds, they could not say anything. Government sources treat it as a fact that the Orbán-Simicska War has fallen victim to the M4 motorway, as new, necessarily loyal oligarchs have to receive the money. They no longer care what happens to hundreds of people who work on the construction site, or what the people of East Hungary are losing, who will still be forced to go on the road to death. All of this doesn't matter to you, it's just necessary sacrifices for people. I ask you, what will be the next victim of the Orbán-Simicska war: the public machine-interested railway development, say, the Sayol Bishop's section? For this reason, Minister, when did the government become aware that the European Commission would not support the investment? What other investments may become uncertain in Eastern Hungary? Does the government plan to stop railway development with the participation of the Public Machine? Not least, who is responsible for the 100 billion-dollar act? And speaking of the Eastern opening policy, Mr. Minister, you should look east and be important to the government. There is no need to go beyond the border, there are people living in East Hungary, and they are rightfully afraid that all the investments are being invested by the government, which is being implemented by companies linked to Simicska. I look forward to your reply, Minister.
u2015-04-13-100	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-04-13-101	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the opportunity to inform the Parliament on this important matter, because many of my fellow Members in Szolnok County, who are interested in Fidesz, have also initiated today to consult as soon as possible with Szolnok County, Szolnok County City and Members of Parliament, and, above all, with the voters concerned. We are ready for this, as the government's important objective is to connect every county-righted city, including Szolnok County, to the motorway network by 2018, as well as the motorways to the border crossing points. To this end, we have earmarked a HUF 600 billion development fund from the Hungarian budget. Last Wednesday, the Ministry of Development was instructed by the government to propose to Parliament how Szolnok's county-righted city could be connected to the motorway network. [[15.50]] So I assure you, my fellow Member, that Szolnok's county-righted city will be connected to the expressway network. After this can take place from the domestic budget, a number of trails are taken into account, and this is obviously to be discussed with county voters and professionals in a social consultation process. My second comment: you must know that most of the Abony-Fegyvernek section is a section beyond Szolnok, as you say, linking the eastern part of the county to Szolnok County City, which we intend to continue, of course, either in relation to the trail originally planned for Debrecen, or in respect of the trail that explores the more disadvantaged region of the county. However, it is only possible to comply with the law and to maintain budgetary coverage. I would like to inform you here, my fellow Member, that the series of negotiations with the European Commission ended on 29 March 2015 in which, after a two-year struggle, it became clear that the European Commission does not want to support the investment for which it identified three reasons. First of all, he does not see the point of having the city of Szolnok county bound into the motorway network according to Brussels bureaucrats, so part of his question should be addressed by Brussels as to why they cannot find a reason there. On the other hand, the European Commission considered it important, as it documented in writing last week, to say that it believes that the construction consortium would undertake disproportionately high prices for some HUF 100 billion for the implementation of this road construction. On the third, between 31 October 2013 and April 2014, the European Commission's Regional Directorate-General indicated several cases of cartel suspicion. I note only in parentheses that, as I understand it, the Hungarian Competition Authority informed the public today that an investigation was being carried out on the M4 motorway concerning the contractors concerned. I would like to tell you that the Hungarian enterprise whose case you have apparently taken up... - and I am pleased that they have finally voted alongside national large companies and national capital instead of multinational large capital and multinational large enterprises. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Lajos Korózs: Answer the question, John!]] This is a very serious evolutionary development in the history of the MSZP rather than internationalism towards patriotism, even if it is about Lajos Simicska and the Public Machine. I would like to say to you that I would like to draw my fellow Member's attention to the fact that the Public Machine has undertaken the investment under the price of the engineer, the exhibition and the tender, while the foreign contractors' consortiums have undertaken the construction 30-35 percent more expensively, in our conviction, in cooperation with each other. The government has decided to stop this investment. We're going to take care of every entrepreneur, and we're going to pay for every job we've done. I must reassure him that all the subcontractors have been paid so far, the Hungarian government has already paid 56 billion to the contractors, from which we believe that 30 billion jobs have been completed and 22 billion forints have not been used, which the entrepreneurs have to pay back. So we're not going back with the funding, we're going forward. As far as the Bishop of Sayol is concerned, the European Commission has the full approval of the project. Since May 2014, it has been on 88 percent alert and will be ready by 31 December 2014. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for also representing the case of Közpép among the Hungarian national large companies. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-13-102	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2015-04-13-103	I stand up for the people of East Hungary, I represent their affairs, and I would warn Minister that in the last five years, in 165 accidents, 311 were injured in this section and 26 were killed. Everyone is afraid of stopping investments for several years. It didn't calm me down, you know, Minister, that the rest of the investment wouldn't be compromised. It didn't calm me down, because, you know, there is a saying in Hungary: don't paint the devil on the wall, because it appears. It just sounds like you shouldn't paint the devil on the wall, because John Lazarus appears. [[Defiance, applause in the ranks of the MSZP. There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-104	Congresswoman didn't accept the answer. I'm asking the National Assembly if you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 105 votes in favour, 43 against, without abstention, the Parliament accepted the ministerial reply. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the interpellations. It's time for immediate questioning. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. It's a short break.]] I would ask my fellow Members, who have an urgent duty, to leave the Chamber now, because we are continuing our work. Don't disturb the seat. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I ask Congressman if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2015-04-13-105	Mr President, Dear House, Surely it will not be a problem for my fellow members of the government to pay the doctor thanks, so they are not interested in the content of the question, and that is why they are acting as if they are not in Parliament. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I say this only for the benefit of the viewers after the sitting, because I find it rather unworthy of the negligee of the kind which is even important to a Member. Dear Secretary of State, The forensic wallet on your website said that you want to legitimize the gratuity money. This initiative represents a huge U-kanyart compared to the State Secretary's initiative which, at the beginning of the year, thought that gratuity money should be abolished, along with significant wage development. Dear Secretary of State, This initiative means more than one thing. On the one hand, they had paid health care, because where they're going to expect gratuity money, they have to pay for care. Second, it means that the health of the rich and poor has been born, because whoever can give money will heal faster and faster, or at least that is what he will hope for, and who does not. And finally, it also means, Mr. Secretary of State, that you do not consider the patient's position or situation in a so-called free health care system, but not even that of doctors, because you leave our country with a multitude of doctors because you do not want to live with institutionalized corruption. When, for money, you can buy better or more - or at least this - supply in a free system, it is a type of institutionalized corruption. So I ask you, Mr. Secretary, why. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-106	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-04-13-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think you were here in Parliament when the MSZ-SZDS decided on paying health care by introducing a visitation fee and a daily allowance, so, Congressman, I think you might want to use those words with a little more humility. The question of how this bill came out on the Ministry of Justice's website is a relatively longer history, since it was the Residents' Association itself that turned to Mr. Attorney General with the question of what criminal law, what legal opinion is currently in the gratuity money, and obviously extended it not only to the gratuity money, but also to a variety of other tips or other benefits that people - as we have learned from the data of the KSH last week - have been paying a very large amount of billions each year. Well, the Attorney General, after receiving this request for a resolution from the Resident Association, then turned to the Ministry of Justice to settle this legal issue, and that is how the draft proposal that you have read was drawn up, and which is obviously not even at the Government meeting, but is in a preliminary social consultation, which is why it came out on the website. This includes that it remains a criminal offence if someone in free health care would link the provision of any kind of health care service to gratuity money. So if anyone asks for any kind of benefit in advance to perform their duty, this is prohibited, as suggested by the social debate outside, it is a crime, and everyone is entitled to free health care. However, this proposal states that if a person subsequently, as a sort of tip, as a kind of gift, as a thank-you money, subsequently gives some kind of amount to a doctor as a way of expressing his thanks, then in this case this would not be punishable. Obviously, however, this does not affect the tax implications of the matter, so there it would continue to be a duty to declare to everyone. So this is a proposal for a social debate, on which everyone can express their views at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.00]]
u2015-04-13-108	I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-04-13-109	Dear Secretary of State, Anyone who's been to a doctor or hospital knows that it's not important that they give gratuity money in advance or in hindsight. Because the patient does not pay his gratitude, but buys special treatment; or I add constantly: at least the feeling of it. On the other hand, Mr State Secretary, this is not merely a legislative issue, and it does not mean filling up a legal gap. This is the most important issue that poisons health, because it is bad for the patient, bad for the doctor, and bad for the doctor's relationship with each other, because you must know that doctors will receive or receive no gratitude money according to their place in the hierarchy. So if you don't want to put money into health care, and instead you want to take patients' money for gratuity money, then you have to admit it. You have to say, behold, here's the track, pay for it, and then you'll get care. Otherwise, however, money should be put into health care. That's what we'd expect, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-110	You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2015-04-13-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Continuing my abandoned thought, this kind of proposal, which, I say, came to the Ministry of Justice after the Residents Association and the Public Prosecutor's Office as a problem, this proposal contains nothing but a draft legislative text, which is in line with the current judicial practice. After all, the court still considers this a criminal offence in the event that someone expects such an allowance for something that is, by the way, an obligation. And the first thing that came out at a party convention in 1957 was the expression "thanks money," so it should be prevented for the reasons, we believe, by increasing the pay of doctors, improving hospital conditions, reducing waiting lists. You know that we spent 1.5 plus HUF 1, plus 6 billion last year to reduce waiting lists, and in the last four years we have tried to pay doctors and nurses, with an average wage increase of 27 per cent, which means that we have been able to provide HUF 76 billion in additional funding to health care workers, including chips tax. We want to go further on this: we want to eliminate the causes of the gratitude money. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-112	Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi and Ádám Mirkóczki, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Whose interest is it? It's an address. Prime Minister Csaba Hende has appointed Minister for Defence to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the Minister's identity or asks the Prime Minister for a personal answer. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Mr President, I will wait for the Prime Minister.]] All right, thank you. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dániel Z. Karpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What will be the fate of the family car? It's an address. Minister Répássy has appointed Mr Róbert State Secretary to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the congressman if he accepts the identity of the Secretary of State. He says he'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-113	Mr President, Dear House, Since 2010, KDNP and other pro-government representatives have repeatedly suggested that the introduction of a private institution or an institution of family bankruptcy could make it easier for a broad society, but the situation and the problem is that no legislative proposal submitted can be presented by any of the Members concerned. I stress that since 2010 - without exaggerating - thousands of families have been torn apart because of this omission, and we can now hear that, according to the bill in force from 2016, the bankrupts will visit the debtors in person at certain times - the bankrupts you have invented - to check whether they are not spending too much, and we can also see in the news that, in some cases, you believe that monitoring bank account movements may be sufficient. After all, it can be seen that the way in which debtors are controlled is the way in which they see the situation being resolved. On the other hand, Jobbik's concept of family bankruptcy is based on two pillars. One of the pillars would be to provide, in any case, a free-of-charge and executed family helper for all the families involved, who will help negotiate with the bank, the creditor financial institution, and achieve a new bargaining position that will reduce the family's repayments, where appropriate the duration may be longer. In addition, as a second pillar, we would give free re-training programmes to family members who have already lost their jobs, so we would help bring them back to the labour market. And after five years, against the idea of KDNP, which would only write a little off the debt, Jobbik believes that we should let these people in difficulty get out of debt slavery. So the question is: what is the government planning, could it order the sale of the car or the holiday home to fail, or would they be willing to accept a more humane position like Jobbik's? We do not want to tell you how to treat the elderly family member or the child's tuition, but we want to help all the Hungarian families concerned against the creditor financial institutions. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-114	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2015-04-13-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The failure to take into account the institutional system and substance of the family bankruptcy system planned by KDNP is your suggestion, because you have focused only on how the state would limit the spending of families during the private bankruptcy procedure. However, this approach is misleading. Its purpose is much wider than the Jobbik concept. The purpose of the private institution of bankruptcy may be to restore the solvency of the debtor with the responsible cooperation and public contribution of the debtor and all its creditors, to those in difficulty with payment and to those overindebted, to establish a debt repayment plan that takes into account the maintenance and housing of the debtor and his family. However, it expects the debtor to pay the debt due disciplinedly, either as agreed in the settlement or as defined in the court decision containing the terms of repayment. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to offer natural persons who are indebted and unable to comply with their payment obligations a judicial procedure at the end of which the honest and cooperative debtor, if he meets the requirements of a settlement agreement or, failing that, of the court's decision, will be released from the remaining debt by the court by giving priority to the possibility of a settlement and establishing a regulatory framework for a balanced debt settlement process. So, once again, the purpose of this family bankruptcy is to restore solvency. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-116	I'll give it to the rejoinder.
u2015-04-13-117	Dear Secretary of State, I do not mean to say that he has given an evasive response, but there has not been any substantive clarification about the fact that, with regard to Jobbik's close proposal to protect families most against the creditor's financial institution, and to help them, not to restore solvency, it follows from something, the possibility of returning to the labour market - so the question remains whether they are willing to lead our close line and accept our position. In addition, please respond clearly: will bank account movements be monitored in the case of Hungarian families, and do you want to tell your failing Hungarian families whether or not it can be spent on the treatment of the elderly family member, or whether it can be spent on the education of the child? These are the real questions, because Jobbik has always wanted to help people in difficulty, but it doesn't matter how, not by raping their situation, but by helping them on a voluntary basis, it is possible to move forward. We therefore expect concrete answers from you on these specific points. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-118	You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2015-04-13-119	Honourable Congressman, You mentioned the word volunteering. That is all I can stress, too, that so-called family bankruptcy starts at the request of a man in a difficult situation, so that he will voluntarily submit to this procedure. He is subject to certain obligations because he cannot fulfill them in time. However, the timing of these obligations requires a cooperation between the creditor and the debtor. This could, of course, be done without contributing persons, but this law would be about which contributors the State could offer in concluding this agreement, since it is clear that many people cannot conclude this agreement directly with, for example, the bank. It is therefore necessary to use qualified persons who can be consulted as contributors. Please wait for the bill to be filed so we can argue about it here. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2015-04-13-120	Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: å Has the banker's government been re-established? It's an address. Minister István Mikola has appointed Secretary of State for his response to the urgent public task. I ask Congresswoman if she accepts the identity of the Secretary of State.
u2015-04-13-121	Thank you for the opportunity, but I'd rather wait for the Minister himself.
u2015-04-13-122	Thank you. Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is the government planning in public education? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The introduction of the pedagogical career model in the current form significantly increases the burden of teachers. The mandatory hours and the increase in school hours also put the wage increase in a completely different light. On average, their salary did not increase by as much as they had more work to do. In his recent interview with Secretary of State for Public Education, Dr. Judit Bertalan, Czunyiné said that I quote: "It is absolutely necessary to deal with how teachers feel in schools. He also said that at the hearing of the Cultural Committee a few weeks ago, and he added that although the working time register is critical, at the moment it is the only means for the employee to record the working hours of teachers. As you know, KLIK has recently started to check working time records. The Presidency of the National Educational Faculty has also responded quickly to these developments. Surprisingly sharp criticism was expressed about the statements made by the Secretary of State. In their communication, they wrote, and I quote, that we consider the monitoring of working time records to be an inappropriate tool for measuring the workload of teachers, leading to a distortion of reality, as this only applies to part of the 40-hour weekly working time. They also reject any assumptions that suggest that teachers work less than 40 hours a week, whether by public opinion or by the Institutional Maintenance Centre or by sectoral management. In LMP's view, the workload really needs to be tested, but this is not the way to browse the records. It would be a comforting solution to assess the actual workload of teachers with an independent participant instead of paperwork, or to believe the National Teachers' Faculty, or perhaps one of the trade unions, as several trade unions have done so. My question, Mr Secretary, is whether an external organisation is being surveyed and monitored instead of checking the working time register.
u2015-04-13-124	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-04-13-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Institute for Education and Development is our institution which is constantly examining these figures, based on the data of the CLIK, which the Member has just been curious about. We hope that you will soon be able to sum them up. At the same time, it is a very important part of the whole reformation of public education, a teaching career, that our goal is to return the prestige of the pedagogical career, so that students with the ability to choose to be teachers in their graduation district. There must be a lot of signs. For example, we value teachers more financially. You know that in 2013 we increased the wages that teachers received by HUF 32.5 billion, which was incorporated into the next year, plus HUF 120.9 billion last year, and this year we spend HUF 38.5 billion more on teachers' wages. Overall, this means that teachers can increase their wages by 30 or 40 percent, which they are bringing home, so we trust that it will please more of the young people with better abilities to choose the teaching profession. This also has its effects, the Klebelsberg Scholarship, which provides support in the field of deficiency trades, i.e. for teachers who have a shortage of teachers, and this increases the prestige of the whole sector. More people are now applying to be teachers, more are enrolled in this training, so there is a greater interest in the teaching field. And there are educators who have not only signed up for an extra commitment corresponding to the basic career, but who have given up their portfolio, who have crossed the teacher's II. Some of them went to the master's degree. We can talk about twenty thousand teachers, who have made an additional commitment beyond what you have talked about, and obviously have been given additional privileges to do so. But we can also talk in thousands of sizes about teachers who drive separate working days in experimental textbooks. So many have even taken on the obligations beyond what you have proposed. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-126	The congressman has the floor.
u2015-04-13-127	Dear Secretary of State, It is commendable, by the way, that teachers get a higher amount of money, but, as I said, their workload has increased much more. And to support this with a few things, because this aforementioned working time register is not appropriate, so that their load is visible, it should be clear to everyone, just a few quotes. I also quote Lajos Aáry, Commissioner for Educational Rights at a committee hearing:.I see signs of fatigue and fatigue in public education that we could get used to or consider as common in June, at least surprisingly, I cannot explain this situation. That's what he said on December 8th. The survey of the pedagogical union shows that a quarter of the teachers work between 40 and 45 hours, and two thirds work more than 45 hours a week. In this working time register, the teacher does not have the opportunity to enter more than 32 hours, even though he works much more, he can only enter 32 hours. That is why it is not suitable to examine their workload. That is why we propose and ask that this be measured in another way, by an external organisation.
u2015-04-13-128	You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2015-04-13-129	Thank you very much. Exactly the organization outside the KLIK, the Institute for Education and Development, which can also address this issue. But obviously all of our institutions, the Education Office, the KLIK and the Ministry itself are constantly watching and monitoring feedback on the pedagogical career. It is important to note that beyond this year, the wages of teachers will continue to increase again next year, and the wages of teachers will continue to increase after next year. They were the first sector to achieve a comprehensive wage increase, which is very large. In the last ten years, there has been almost no wage increase, in the ten years preceding that, at the sectoral level of teachers, and we can even say that since the regime change, teachers have now been highlighted to an unprecedented extent. So I think that this kind of extra appreciation that the teachers have received has appeared in the financials. Obviously, we're confident that those who are the educator II. They are in the category of master teachers, or who remain in the category of teacher I, they themselves strive to give even higher quality, as this is what students who go into the system of public education need, the whole educational organization system is about them, and in their interest the additional source of the teaching course was born. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-130	Dear Parliament, Balázs Győrffy, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question with a title on the distribution of the Socialists' money. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr.Zsolt Kis as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-131	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In my interpellation a few weeks ago, I drew attention to the half-billion HUF grant approved and distributed to the Hungarian LEADER Public Benefit Association with socialist ties on 18 December 2008 by Zoltán Gőgös, then Secretary of State of MSZP in record time. It took only one and a half page letter of support and a few days for Zoltán Gőgös to allow them to applaud half a billion forints, including 13 studies, worth 212 million forints, for studies which, according to the findings of the investigation initiated by his own head of law or the Government Audit Office, did not serve the purposes described in the grant application in any form. The question may arise as to who the final winners of this unscrupulous distribution of money might be, who, by writing a single letter, have put in their pockets significant millions. Instead of explaining his actions and apologizing to the tax-paying citizens, Zoltán Gógös attacks with accusations made, threatens to press charges - he is not here, nor is he interested in the subject. I hereby send a message to Mr. Gőgös, it is time to stand up to the voters and explain how Dr. Tibor Lóránt, the papal vice-president of the MSZP and the 5 M Kft. led by him in the county of Veszprém. He received more than HUF 12 million for writing a meaningless strategy, who happens to be the husband of Dr. Márta Németh, who failed to apply for MSZP candidate for the papal mayor in 2002 and 2006. [[16.20]] Although voters have never let themselves be deceived, this does not seem to prevent MSZP's prominents from serving the moonyard's financial needs unscrupulously. In addition, a number of MSZP prominents have enriched the case based on the information available. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State if he can confirm this information. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-04-13-132	I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Kis.
u2015-04-13-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As you rightly mentioned in a previous interpellation, the investigation of Kehi proved that Zoltán Gőgös, then State Secretary, gave HUF 500 million in support to the Hungarian LEADER Public Benefit Association in violation of all relevant laws and internal rules of the Ministry. The association did not devote the aid to informing farmers, but to its own operation and to the remuneration of their own fellow members. The company of Dr. Tibor Lóránt, mentioned by you, did indeed receive HUF 12 million, but I can also mention the Gold-Press 2006 Deposit Society, which operated the Tolna County office of the foundation, and its representative is Melinda Kocsisné Rátkai, who was the economic director of the association, and the vice president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The deposit company received HUF 1.6 million for organizing events and producing leaflets. But László Csák also received HUF 1.8 million, who was the president of the Szolnok organization of the MSZP. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, former vice-president, currently member of the MSZP People's Welfare Committee, was also a member of Szépünk Kft., which received HUF 2.7 million in support. He also served as Vice-President of the Association. Tamás Lőrincz's company, who is currently a member of the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Board of MSZP, was founded a month before the grant agreement was concluded and quickly received nearly HUF 3 million. Zsolt Besztercei, who is currently the MSZP-DK-Cooperation representative of the Dunaújváros body of representatives, and who was a member of the association at that time, did, for example, the winding-up of the P-M 7 Projekt Kft. which received HUF 3 million and then ceased. The saddest thing is that, unfortunately, I would still be able to list the line for a long time, honourable Member, if my time frame would allow me to do so. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-04-13-134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-135	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, There's a mafia network up ahead. And let me also confirm this by saying that Dr. Tibor Lóránt is already in liquidation of Pápai Hús Zrt. as of 2007. As managing director, in the difficult days of the long-standing company, he managed to manage the values he had entrusted to him by employing his own son as a photographer for hundreds of thousands at the time. Unscrupulousness can be traced. It is now understandable that Secretary of State Zoltán Gőgös MSZP gave such people a stroke of a pen to millions in the middle of the economic crisis when most people had daily livelihood problems. Dear Secretary of State, I trust that the threats made by the former Secretary of State, as well as what you have just said, will make it clear to you that there is no rumble between the, if the wind does not blow, there is more to it than a phrase. I therefore ask you to do everything you can to ensure that the amounts unduly paid are repaid and that those concerned are also held liable. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-04-13-136	In return, I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-04-13-137	Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Kehi has filed a complaint, based on which an investigation into fiscal fraud has been initiated at the National Tax and Customs Office, and the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office for Infidelity. In the course of the investigation, it was found that the conclusion of the grant contract by the then State Secretary Zoltán Gőgös was irregular and resulted in a significant financial disadvantage. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament and Member, the Prime Minister's Office will do everything in the future to ensure that it does not happen again, that hundreds of millions of people migrate to the hands of companies and associations of dubious origin without applying for tenders. Based on all this, I ask you to accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-04-13-138	Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Minister, will there be an inquiry? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Legány has the floor.
u2015-04-13-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In the previous parliamentary term, the two-thirds majority of the Fidesz-KDNP government adopted the 2011 CXCVI. a law which provided for national assets. The Fundamental Law states that the State and the local government owns national assets, the 2011 CXCVI. Law on how to preserve property owned by the State and local authorities, provides for the protection of property and the management of national assets. The Law 1. Pursuant to paragraph 2 (c), the national property includes financial assets owned by the State or the local government, and the law also provides that, in relation to this law, what may be called a transparent entity, a domestic or foreign legal entity or an entity having no legal personality in accordance with point (b), which meets two conditions: (1) its ownership structure, its actual owner is known, (2) it has a tax entitlement in the Member State of the Union, in the State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area or in a State with which Hungary has an agreement on the avoidance of double taxation. The Quaestor case, the Quaestor scandal, and indeed Quaestor Financial Consultant Zrt. has its registered office in Vaduz, the capital of Liechtenstein, according to business records. With Liechtenstein, Hungary does not have a double taxation agreement, so Quaestor is not a transparent institution, and therefore the municipalities could not have concluded contracts with Quaestor and the financial assets managed by the municipalities could not have been invested with Quaestor and Quaestor could not have been used for this assignment. As of 2014, Minister of State oversees government offices. I'm asking you if you're planning an investigation, some kind of accountability, maybe a complaint. Thank you.
u2015-04-13-140	Minister János Lázár has the floor.
u2015-04-13-141	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, If I may, I will answer your question in writing. As far as I know, there are municipalities that have actually taken risks and placed money at Quaestor or at the various members of the Quaestor Group. My memories - which I'm not sure are correct, so they need clarification; that's why I said that I would reply in writing - are about 8-10 billion forints of funds entrusted to Quaestor by municipal authorities and municipal councils, and now it's unclear what will happen, because we don't include the local government victims among the Quaestor victims, given that the OBA, sorry, the position of BEVA, we hope, applies to the 32,000 private victims. In the case of municipalities, the body of representatives has the right and duty to examine in any way how the offices and the leaders of the municipalities have taken this decision. I wonder if the necessary decisions on the body of representatives have been taken. The State Court of Auditors has the right to verify this, since the audit of municipal authorities is carried out by the State Court of Auditors in terms of legality and efficiency. I will tell President Domokos that the government has such a need. So my answer to your question is that it is necessary for the municipalities to clarify under what circumstances these resources have been allocated, taking a disproportionate risk to the Quaestor Group. The Buda-Cash-damaged municipalities are other insofar as the Buda-Cash-damaged municipalities did not give the money directly to Buda-Cash, but to the five banks that entrusted it to Buda-Cash, so in theory they kept an account with Buda-Cash, which was a savings cooperative, and has been managing the account there for many years. This is another situation. So, in the case of Quaestor, it is a risk, and in the case of Buda-Cash, it is that the account was held at the bank associated with Buda-Cash. In their case, the state agrees to stand up and help them, but in the case of those at risk at Quaestor, this will be a problem. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-04-13-142	In return, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény.
u2015-04-13-143	Minister, thank you very much for your reply, and also for answering it in writing later, because I think that it is really necessary to have a deeper knowledge of the matter in order to be able to find or at least secure missing funds on this issue. Of course, I would not want any of the 3200 municipalities in Hungary to get into trouble. However, I think it can be seen from what I have mentioned that, under the provisions of the National Property Act, the municipalities could not have entrusted Quaestor with their funds, because it has its seat in a place where we do not have such an agreement with Liechtenstein. You made a law about that. Of course, I wouldn't make any accusations, and I wouldn't say anything, but I would ask everyone to comply with the laws that the Hungarian Parliament has passed. And, as a matter of fact, we look forward to the conclusion that if Kehi, the SAO or the investigating authorities are investigating it, then what will be the conclusion. I look forward to your reply, Minister, and thank you very much. [[16.30]]
u2015-04-13-144	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
u2015-04-13-145	In the case of Quaestor, if you have good information, it's a big business network. It is not yet clear to me, at least, who the municipalities were in contractual relations with. I say this because the municipalities could benefit from a service by entrusting the sovereign debt at their disposal to Quaestor, and by debunking these sovereign debt at Quaestor. But they could also buy Quaestor bonds, for which I would draw attention to the fact that 68-page customer information was available to all Quaestor bond buyers, in which it is described in detail who they are giving the money to and the risk they are taking and that they contribute to a pyramid game, which is why they receive 10-12 percent interest when the market interest rate was 3-4-5 percent. So every client who gave Quaestor money should have theoretically known what he was giving his money for, because through the 68 pages of the customer briefing, I recommend it to everyone's attention, it is relatively correct to describe how risky this business is. In the municipalities, it is a matter of public money, and this is particularly the case. We'll talk to the State Audit Office. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-13-146	Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Do you see where the fidesz unscrupulousness leads? It's an address. Mr. President Novak shall have the floor.
u2015-04-13-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Behind the Fidesz vote loss of the Tapolca election, I think it is clear that people are fed up with fidesz insinuation, urination, political job accumulation. How can Gábor Bódi, who has been transferred from the Bajnai government, fill four full-time jobs in public money if he is only supposed to work 10 hours a day as Deputy State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office? This interpellation, this question I asked you in December, and gave you a relatively surprising answer, because in part you admitted that this situation was untenable when you said that I asked you this morning and you were willing to give up your fee in the places filled. He used a plural here and in a later place in his reply. However, when I asked you, for the sake of safety, in a written question, whether your fees had been cancelled, you replied that you had renounced only one of the four benefits linked to your position as managing director. He used a plural number in one place that found out that he had not only received a HUF 1 million honorary fee there, which has so far been leaked, since his declaration of assets is unfortunately not public to the Deputy Secretary of State, but it turns out that he still has some other benefits or other benefits there. The bigger problem is that it looks like it can continue to fill three full-time jobs with public money. Overall, you can continue to earn more than even ministerial salary, which, of course, could not happen on a market basis in the civil sector. They don't tolerate it when someone doesn't perform their duties on a elementary level. But your administration seems to be different. So I'm asking you if you're ready to face this. If, as a matter of fact, he does not perform his duties, he cannot carry out his duties if he continues to complete four full-time jobs, although he will give up one of them's fees. 'Cause it's worth it to him to do this state assignment without getting a penny for it. I think this is suspicious in itself, but it is certainly not acceptable to continue with the job accumulation of politicians at this level. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-148	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-04-13-149	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Your original question about where Fidesz's unscrupulousness leads, I can't answer. Where Jobbik's unscrupulousness leads, we've seen it in Tapolca. I can answer that for now. On the other hand, as I said before the elections, if we do not receive the vote of confidence, we have no other obligation than to congratulate the winner and respect the outcome of the elections and wish the elected Member of Parliament good luck. As for Mr Gábor Bódi, Deputy State Secretary, whose activities seem to be of interest to him, I would like to know what the problem with his activities is other than that he received his salary after several jobs. As far as I know, he's given up on these payments. Now, after your question, which I admit, I couldn't prepare without knowing what you were going to ask me, but now I'm going back to my office, I'm going to do that, I'm going to answer in part in writing, and I'm going to make sure that you've given up your fees since I answered you. If you want to work with me, I've told you, you'll have to give up the fees, the sidelines, because there's obviously more work to be done in the Prime Minister's Office. I hope that Deputy State Secretary Gábor Bódi is doing work in the IT field, for example as Head of the Government Working Group on the establishment of the National Digital Programme, which is worthy of recognition. But I would be happy to be informed not only what is wrong with you, but also that you will receive four salaries, and what is wrong with your work. Because I feel on Congressman that there's something going on and there's something wrong with his work. Either you've touched something or you're dealing with something that, for some reason, Congressman or those who turn to you don't like it. It would be easier if we talked about that, because I can guarantee you that you've resigned, that you'll resign, and I hope you've given up your fees. But I'd appreciate it if you'd give me your professional review, because I value that more than personal. So if you tell me what the problem is with Gábor Bódi's work, I am willing to deal with the problem, not only when you ask me orally why you have so much salary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-13-150	Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2015-04-13-151	Mr. Secretary. I'm afraid he's starting out on his own right now, and in his previous reply he's guessing that we have some kind of backup problem, which is why we're trying to repay him now. This may work for you only when you have a personal dispute or even a professional one, but that is not the case. In principle, we say that a legal form of political crime is that someone takes a full-time salary from more than one place. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] At the same time, yes, I dare say that if only the Prime Minister's Office has a 10-hour working day, it is not able to honour three other state main jobs. This is the problem of principle that we want to eliminate. As a matter of principle, the statement of assets of an Assistant Secretary of State is not public. And I'm asking you to make this public. That's what I asked him, in writing, if he'd given up his fees. He gave me this answer, which I still cannot accept, that he has not given up yet, only one of the four, and he continues to do these work. What's our professional review? For example, for 648 thousand a month, the President of the Communications and Informatics Council (NMHH), which is in principle independent of the government, which is also spicy because it is their task to give independent opinions on draft legislation. So, obviously, there is no serious disagreement, no debate if he sits on both sides of the negotiating table, as Secretary of State and President of the independent specialised body. Thank you.
u2015-04-13-152	Minister János Lázár has the floor.
u2015-04-13-153	The regulation of the law is absolutely clear: Minister, Minister of State, Deputy Minister of State, State Secretary of State, whatever we call it, so the Ministry's political leadership, whatever ministry we are talking about, or government commissioner, they can't even provide more jobs or even do more jobs, so they can't take up any more salaries. Other rules apply to the professional and administrative management of ministries, such as the Minister of State for Administrative Affairs and the Deputy State Secretary. I would by no means rule out the possibility, whether in relation to the exercise of property rights or the performance of specific tasks, that an alternate State Secretary or an administrative secretary, in addition to his work, performs, supervises, organises, or actually participates in the operation of an organisation, another task falling within the scope of the Ministry's activities. If you get extra money for this job, this alone, if the work is done, is not from the devil. Once again, Congressman, I am open to discussing this and looking at it, and I will not argue how many places the Mayor of Tapolca will take his salary from, as my fellow Members say here, because I trust that he will strike the job hoarders with a cruel rigour within the party. Congressman, there are, and there will be, job hoarders. You'll be surprised. [[There's a lot of noise in the pro-government benches and the Jobbik lines. It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-13-154	Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How does the government help athletes with outstanding results and their preparers? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr István Simicskó Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking if you'll accept his identity. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-155	Dear Secretary of State, Sport plays a growing role in our country's positive assessment, thanks on the one hand to the financial support for sport and on the other hand to the efforts to promote a rich lifestyle. The second Orbán government increased the state funding of sport six times in four years, from HUF 16 billion to HUF 98 billion. He tried to create a sport-friendly legal environment, the Cabinet provided tax and tax reductions to Hungarian sports sponsors and investors, and a better tax option for athletes and sports professionals. As a result, more than 300 new sports facilities have been transferred so far and nearly 500 sports facilities have been renewed. A significant proportion of the money in the five visual team sports concerned can be used to raise supplies, which proves that the introduction of tao is clearly an investment in the future of Hungarian sport. [[16.40]] Since 2011, the number of certified athletes has increased by 47 percent in the affected sports. [[Noise.]] Dear Secretary of State, By what means does the government support talented, but also eager to learn, top athletes and their coaches, so that they can be successful not only in sport but also in other areas of life, as an example to the generations that follow them? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-04-13-156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The professional debate should preferably take place outside, so as not to disturb the fellow Members. I now give the floor to Secretary of State István Simicskó.
u2015-04-13-157	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, We see sport as a strategic sector. We are doing this because we believe and believe that our children's character is enhanced by sports activities, and even increases their physical abilities, and also raises them to community responsibility. If you like it, it's this activity that makes you a man in a Schilleri sense. Juvenalis, a former Roman poet, says that he is a sound soul, or, more specifically, that it would be desirable to have a sound soul in a healthy body, and that means that it must be done for him. Yes, there is a need for everyone in this country, of course the government and all sports-friendly people, sports leaders, to do so, so that as many people as possible can play sports. The success of Hungarian sports is proven by the fact that in the history of modern Olympics 168 gold medals have been won by Hungarian athletes, 148 silver and 170 bronze medals, making us 8th place among some 200 states and nations of the world, so we are a sports power. The government considers it very important that talented Hungarian athletes, young people, who continue their studies in Hungarian higher education institutions, appreciate them and keep them at home, so we introduced a scholarship for sports stars. I would like to say that this was a decision on the part of the government to fill in the gap. The past one-and-a-half-year experience shows that we are facing a success story, some 119 young athletes received scholarships in the second half of the 2013-2014 academic year, 112 such sports stars receive scholarships in the first half of the 2014-2015 academic year. The amount of their scholarship - depending on the results achieved and the hopes of their athletes' activities - is between 102 thousand and 204 thousand forints, so the government acknowledges their work, their learning and their sports every month. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-158	Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2015-04-13-159	Dear Secretary of State, Athletes and coaches need to live, not only to play sports, to raise, but also to live. We all know that competition sports are closely related to age. After a certain age, the contestants grow old, not everyone becomes a coach. Therefore, as in the old days, many present or future hopes are learning in higher education institutions. These young people and their coaches are above average, as they have more places to stand. These young people need not only infrastructure, spiritual, but also other support. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-04-13-160	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2015-04-13-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The primary task of the government in sport is to ensure the conditions for sport, giving the opportunity for athletes and young people. At the same time, we must not forget that we value our athletes, and we also value our coaches, who make Hungarian sports strong. Therefore, the priority coaching program is to recognise some 170 excellent Hungarian coaches and to pay them state salaries through the Hungarian Olympic Committee. This is also a pioneering initiative, which is extremely successful, and more and more coaches are coming into this circle, and through this we can strengthen the sustainability and competitiveness of Hungarian sport. I have to say that Hungarian coaches have been looking for us everywhere in the world, let us think about kayak kenura, fencing, waterball and many other successful sports, not to mention swimming, so it is very, very important to keep them at home, to appreciate them, and to further strengthen the status that Hungary, Hungarian athletes, has achieved so far. Thank you very much for raising your question on sport and thank you very much for listening to my fellow Members. [[György Szilágyi: How many hundred million was the abuse of the Tao? Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-162	Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: "Can we believe the Prime Minister? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Mikola István State Secretary to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask Congresswoman if she accepts the identity of the Secretary of State. [[Erzsébet Schmuck nods.]] It says yes. You're the word, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-13-163	Thank you very much. Mr President, On 19 December 2014, the Prime Minister said that Hungary insists on the system of sovereign justice in the states. However, at the last informal Trade Ministerial meeting in Riga, it became clear that the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the EU would, in its current form, include offshore courts for ratification to national parliaments. This chapter, which contains offshore courts, gives multinationals the opportunity to sue states at private courts for environmental, environmental or financial regulations. With this chapter, multinationals are able to sue and block rules that have been decided democratically on the grounds of their right to profit by circumventing the system of public justice. It is no wonder that the Dutch Parliament has recently adopted a resolution against offshore courts, and in the last few months more than one and a half million signatures have been gathered against conventions containing such chapters across Europe, and the European Parliament's Employment Committee has also taken a stand against this. Moreover, the chapter of offshore courts also opens a loophole to circumvent the Hungarian GMO exemption, as the precautionary principle can also be considered as a non-tariff barrier, and thus Hungary can be sued before Canadian agricultural mites. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether the Government supports the ratification of CETA, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that, if so, the credibility of the Prime Minister depends on it. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-04-13-164	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Mikola.
u2015-04-13-165	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I participated in the Riga meeting myself, but at the informal meeting in Riga the subject was the Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States. There is no doubt that the dispute resolution mechanism has been mentioned, and I do not say that we are on our own, but there were five of us among the Member States, who continued to insist on the existence of a legal order in the Member States of the European Union; these Member States are also members of the OECD, and in the case of compliance with the so-called like-mindness criteria, and these Member States have been satisfied, it has been demonstrated that they have an advanced legal order and a democratic legal order and a set-up. So we continue to insist that there is no need to engage in international arbitration, but that national jurisdiction is sufficient to resolve disputes about investment protection issues. I may also say that there are five Member States with whom we fully agree. Unfortunately, we see a turnaround by representatives of strong European economies who want to use ISDS, a form of an investment protection agreement that is part of a free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada. This agreement lasted five years and was concluded last August. For the time being, we have a draft containing ISDS, i.e. the involvement of international arbitrations in investment protection disputes, but it contains restrictions that are likely to offer further opportunities for the negotiations to enforce our interests. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-166	I now give the floor to Congresswoman.
u2015-04-13-167	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary, I did not, in the end, know whether the government was in favour of CETA or not. We know that CETA was signed in September last year, and we have not had any information since it was taken out of it, and the fundamental question is, if it stays this way, how will the government react to this. I would very much like to hold you accountable when it comes to ratification, and yet you say yes, and you will include these offshore private courts.
u2015-04-13-168	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. [[16.50]]
u2015-04-13-169	Thank you very much. I would like to continue for a few more thought, Madam honourable Member. CETA, the free trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, which, I repeat, has been drawn up for the time being, still has to be adopted by the European Council and adopted by the parliaments of the European Union Member States, must therefore be ratified. This can take place in two or two and a half years, because the thing is that the translation and legal consultation are still on the agenda. This includes the dispute resolution mechanism: investment protection and investment disputes can only be settled if a breach of the law of an undertaking established in the host State and engaged in an economic activity under its rules. This is the first very important item. Secondly, in the event of the mere failure of the investment intention - this US model - dispute resolution is not possible. So the Canadian agreement is already one for us, I do not say that it contains an acceptable but somewhat more friendly contention. I would like to note, dear Congresswoman, that we also hear a lot of histheroid manifestations. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] around the free trade agreement. I think the important thing is to be at the negotiating table and represent the interests that we have presented. There is no need to involve international courts chosen for dispute resolution. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-13-170	Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. The irresponsibleness of the socialist city management can cause Jászberény to get into trouble? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás as a response to an urgent public mission. I ask the congressman if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity. [[János Pócs: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-171	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, We share joy and sorrow. The capital of Jászberény is Jászberény; if Jászberény is in trouble, then Jászság is in trouble. After the government meeting on 9 April, Minister János Lázár, Head of Prime Minister's Office, announced at a press conference that the municipality of Jászberény would be paid 750 million forints to enable Jászberény to fulfil the commitment resulting from the Dalkia trial. Minister, on behalf of the Jászság, thank you very much for the government's help. Dear House, Before 2010, during the socialist government, during the left-wing city leadership, Jászberény drifted into a debt of 750 million forints. Recently, opposition politicians have tried to forget all this. In all evil, the House was loud from political gain, the Dalkia trial, according to some good principle. Maybe they really think the sun's coming up because the rooster's crowing. Mr László Varju did not pass the appearance in his speech here in Parliament that the current government and the current Fidesz city leadership pushed Jászberény into trouble. At the same time, it is important to know that in 2002 the contract which severely disadvantaged Jászberény was concluded under the Mayor of Magyar Levente SZDSZ. Then, in 2008, the contract was terminated during the mayor of the then socialist, currently DK Gedei József. Today it is clear to the Jászberényi that József Gedei's intention was clearly driven by the attempt to transfer the Jászberény hospital into HospInvest's hands. Dear House, Thanks to the government's decision, Jászberény does not need to borrow, it does not need to squeeze the population or reduce the support of civil society organisations due to the failure of the previous city administration. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This time, can we put an end to the issue of the irresponsible actions of the former Socialist City Administration, which has affected the population of Jászberény.
u2015-04-13-172	Secretary Tibor Pogácsás has the floor.
u2015-04-13-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, This case of Jászberény is a rather sad example of how to make irresponsible decisions, make a series of decisions for a city administration, and then leave them to the successors and subsequently accuse those left to clean up the ruins that the previous city administration left behind. There was a contract that actually started privatisation at Jászberény Hospital. The outsourcing of the operation started, and in 2008, not only attempted to outsource the operation, but also attempted to fully privatise the health care system and privatise the operation of the hospital, while the obligations of the contracts concluded were not addressed. Indeed, the result is that the service provider has sued the municipality, that municipality, the municipality run by the mayor who could not have done anything about this preliminary case, and when the loss of the lawsuit occurred, when it turned out that Jászberény had to pay, they really try to make it appear that the present municipality is responsible for all of this. The government has examined what it can do for Jászberény, and we have examined the possibilities. Indeed, on the one hand, we must negotiate with Dalkia and on the other hand the payment obligation must be fulfilled. The government has decided that the maximum grant of HUF 750 million will be granted to Jászberény, Jászberény will not be put in a state of inability. Jászberény will work.
u2015-04-13-174	Mr János Pócs shall have the floor.
u2015-04-13-175	Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary. Your answer and Jászberény, the decision to help Jászság, thank you with respect. At the same time, the answer and the story, I believe, is a lesson for our opposition representatives that not the power they proclaim and exercise has truth, but the truth always has power. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-176	I give the floor to Secretary of State of Scones.
u2015-04-13-177	Honourable Congressman, I would like to add so much to this local government assistance that the government clearly aims to ensure that the local government system is able to function in a stable way. The government led by the civil government, Fidesz, in recent cycles, when it had the opportunity, has always done everything in its power to enable the municipalities to operate. I would also like to remind you, in the time of the municipal fire department, of the overtime of the firefighters, which the government took over instead of the municipalities, of the privatization of the gas utility assets, which the Socialist government did, and then left to the Orbán government, so that all the indemnities that had been passed on to the municipalities for their own assets would be passed on to the municipalities. But the same is true of the credit transfer. Thus, the municipalities under the Orbán governments have received on numerous occasions capital replacements from which they have been able to make improvements, capital replacements that have been able to perform tasks that have helped improve the situation of the population and improve local life. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-178	Dear Parliament, The hour of immediate questioning is over. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to amend certain laws necessary to protect victims of crime and their relatives more effectively. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Staudt Gábor, in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-04-13-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We have proposed a very important amendment to the law, the rejection of which, I must tell you, I did not understand it in committee. I feel that somewhere in their hearts the Members of the Fidesz-KDNP present would have supported it, but they thought that they might not be able to decide that on the ground, so we hope that this House can help and support our proposal. What's this about? At the moment, the law on criminal proceedings has a rule that when a person makes a motion to waive the cost of criminal proceedings after a criminal proceeding, the Minister of Justice will assess and specify whether, in whole or in part, he will release the criminal costs of the proceedings, so he will decide whether or not to pay the State. At the moment, unfortunately, only the perpetrators can submit such a motion, not the victims. Why is this important? We have seen countless cases in recent years, and many cases have not been brought to the press, but they have happened, and the victims have been inexorably offended, when the unsubs' fortunes have been massive, tens of millions of forints, which were seized at the beginning of the criminal proceedings. However, despite the fact that the victims, such as civil rights claims or claims in criminal proceedings, have simply not obtained a single forint, since the state's criminal claim, which can amount to up to tens of millions of forints, has priority, and until it has been satisfied, the victims and their relatives can receive nothing. [[17.00]] And because the victims could not submit a motion to the Minister of Justice to release the State's claim for its own criminal costs, nothing could be done. It should be recalled that, for example, in Cozma and Szögi cases, even though there are final judgments for damages before a civil court, the victims are not getting their money. You say that the state has a monopoly on the use of violence, has a monopoly on violence. That is all right, but then the state is responsible for the fact that if a manslaughter is committed, if it cannot prevent its citizens from being killed, a violent death, then the victim or the victim's family, if the victim dies, is also responsible for the state, at least to the extent that it is reclassifying itself and to release victims in the course of meeting civil needs. One of our proposals would therefore justify the possibility for the victim to use such a motion to the Minister of Justice, and another proposal to amend the implementing law so that the Minister of Justice can do so by changing the order. At the moment, in the course of execution, the State still faces the compensation granted to the victims; if the state and the victims and the victims are able to replace the place of rank, the victims can receive the compensation awarded by a legitimate final judgment, and then the State will wait for them, for up to 20-30 years, and then slowly recover the criminal costs. We believe that this is a proposal, moreover, that the Minister of Justice can decide on these matters, which is certainly justified, and that what was said in committee that this could be resolved in the codification of the new Code of Criminal Procedure, is not credible because the new rules may or may not be codified at the end of the term, and that even if they come before Parliament, we cannot be sure that these rules will be included in the rules of the new Code of Criminal Procedure. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to support these amendments, so that victims can obtain their compensation in cases such as the Cozma case or the Szögi case or in cases not otherwise recognised in the media. It is not a matter of public money - although this might arise and may arise in other matters - but of the fact that the property that they could seize from the perpetrators should be primarily related to the victims or their relatives, and this should be possible with a decision by the Minister of Justice, whether it is an ex officio or a request. This, please, is to be supported in order to get into a series of subjects. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-180	Ladies and gentlemen, Now one Member per group of Members has the opportunity to speak within a two-minute time frame, and this also applies to independent Members. I give Andras Schiffer the opportunity to comment first.
u2015-04-13-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Of course, we support the inclusion of the series of items, all the more so after the faction of the LMP has submitted its amendments to each of the budget laws since the end of 2010, which would otherwise have significantly increased the amount that could be spent on victim protection at the Home Affairs register. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would like to say that, in 2011, there was a socialist proposal - we also supported the inclusion of it in the series - that the state would take over compensation in some cases. I think that both solutions should be supported, and it says a lot about the pro-government majority, that once again, like Luca's chair, they will point to a Code of Conduct, so that the victims cannot be helped any more. Dear Parliament, Of course, it would also be considered that the state would simply re-assess its own claims behind the civil rights needs of the victims, since the victim has far less means to obtain his or her own needs than the means the State otherwise has. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]] We therefore naturally support the inclusion of the series of objects, and I hope that there will be parties in the budgetary debate, which will be partners in increasing the currently shameful size of the cash register for victim protection. But I have one comment to make to the authors. Gábor Vona said a few hours ago that Jobbik was characterized by civil style. Then why do we have to highlight the Cozma case, the Lajos Szögi case, among the criminal cases involved, even now, to Gábor Staudt? If a party follows a civil style, let me say that there is no difference between sacrifice and sacrifice. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's it! That's what we're talking about.]] What the origins of the perpetrators are, by the way. A lot more [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] There has been a big stir-up in recent years, where, by the way, the victims also did not have a legitimate claim. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-182	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group.
u2015-04-13-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I am in a slightly easier position, because Mr Schiffer has already said what I would like to start with, so I just want to point out that he did have a similar proposal for the MSZP fraction. As far as victim protection is concerned, it should also be noted here that this did not happen at the time within the framework of the Ministry of Interior, but within the framework of the Ministry of Justice, which is a substantial difference because we consider victim protection to be significantly more and a serious problem than to be treated as a matter of law enforcement. Here, the Ministry of Justice developed victim protection schemes, various victim protection schemes, and laid down criminal code rules that often put the interests of victims, victims, ahead of the state's criminal needs, with the involvement of experts. We can follow this philosophy now, and we know very well that there is still a lot of work to be done in this area, which is why the MSZP supports the inclusion in the series of proposals aimed at strengthening the rights of victims, victims, or against the laws of the state; we do not believe in the paternalist state anyway. However, I would like to point out one thing: that I, reading the reasoning, find it unfortunate when we highlight specific and specific crimes and crimes. We know that this is not just a problem with two, otherwise well-known criminal cases, but it is the same problem with hundreds of thousands of criminal cases, which Jobbik has now drawn attention to. So, given that victim protection is a priority for us, we support the inclusion of this proposal in the series. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-184	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Szávay, Jobbik Group.
u2015-04-13-185	Thank you very much. We're almost talking about the same thing, Congressman Schiffer, but we're just gonna take this thing a little bit differently. What you have suggested here is that we should measure in the same way, we are talking about the same thing: to measure in the same way. By the way, Congressman Barándy also spoke about this at the Justice Committee's meeting about why Jobbik has now highlighted these two cases, the Cozma or the Szögi murder. For two reasons: on the one hand - and I would like it to be treated where I say it - because it is typical for the public and the media in Hungary that there are only the victims, there are no perpetrators, on the other hand, and on the other hand, these cases, which the public does in many cases, and I would like to say once again that I do not wish to question this right, are the outrage that we can hear from the press that there are certain crimes committed by the gypsies, which, by the way, are not quite to be condemned, I would like to emphasise that which the state immediately intervenes, provides assistance and assistance, as was the case with regard to the Roma murders - and, on the other hand, there are crimes committed by the gypsies, where, however, many years have passed, that the victims or their relatives have received any compensation, and the public does link these cases. There is much more to talk about, and my fellow Members are right about that; we are talking about these matters because they are quite typical, characteristic, they have raised a great deal of dust, and they do consider public interest. [[17.10]] Congressman Schiffer is also right about what you just said about not just talking about murder cases. There are economic crimes, and there are many other areas that could be brought here now, and we have no framework or time to talk about it, that is also true. Here, we would like to lay down the groundwork that we have made, and what my fellow Member Staudt has said, and not to undermine, where appropriate, the existing right of the perpetrators to apply, but let us say, this right could also be granted, where appropriate, to victims. And yes, it's in the best interest of the victims, if there's one way [[The president's ringing the bell.]] then put it in front of the public interest, or the State withdraws, and provide the opportunity to give priority to the interests of the victims. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-04-13-186	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you if there is an intention to speak on the part of the additional factions or of independent Members. [[István Szávay: Doesn't Fidesz have an opinion?]] Since one speech per faction is possible, I cannot speak to Mr Teleki now; but I give the floor to Mr Gábor Staudt, who wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. Here you go, Congressman. Two minutes.
u2015-04-13-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it's a shame that the Fidesz-KDNP didn't talk to him. We're talking about a case, a case and a change of law that people are interested in, and that would create a just situation. It is not that in any case the order of satisfaction would be changed, and in any case the victim would be ahead of the state. We'd like to place the right to make that decision with the Minister of Justice. In addition, we have also asked the Minister of Justice of Trocsányi with a written question, in which the answer was also given, and I would like to read that if the criminal costs were not recovered, the functioning of the authorities involved in criminal proceedings may be impossible. Thus, it can be impossible to allow victims to go forward in some cases with the approval of the minister. If that makes the state insolvent, or if you can't pay the courts or the D.A.'s office, then... I can't imagine, we're going in the wrong direction, so obviously that's not what this is about. We think that first the state and then the victim, or at least the possibility of doing so, because, by the way, Minister Trocsányi's reply also shows that he cannot do anything either as a minister. There is a particular situation, the law does not give him the opportunity to deviate from the rules laid down in the Enforcement Act and the Criminal Procedure Act. We would like to give this to the current Minister of Justice. So, if you like it, your justice minister would be given the right to decide on this right at the moment. We think that the state can't be so greedy that in every case it looks at its own interests and looks at the cost of the crime he can collect, and in any case, the families that, say, lost the family support in a murder, let's say, they're drifting to the brink of life support. It's a greedy state we can't believe in. Support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-04-13-188	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, I declare that, according to the agreed agenda, H/2305 on the national rural strategy and its implementation. The negotiation of the series of proposals for decisions on the subject will not take place on this meeting. Dear Parliament, Independent Members have proposed that the Parliament decide on the publication of State Security Documents H/3840. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member, as rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-189	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Exploring, preserving, thinking, moving on. This is the motto of the Kenedi Committee's report, perhaps everyone remembers it from Timothy Garton's text Ash: The Four Ways to Truth. It is no coincidence that I will begin with this speech, in which I will try to convince my fellow members of the Government, although there are quite a few of them here to support this Parliamentary resolution proposal. The fact is that the majority of governments are very consciously voting off proposals submitted by opposition representatives and factions in recent years. It would appear that they are not interested in making the state security record fully public. The most outrageous thing for me is that, for the first time, I did not sit at the Justice Committee meeting, that they do not speak to the subject, and that they are elegantly present in the vote, as if you were not interested in this question. All this is strange to me because in the Fundamental Law, which you have created with your two-thirds majority, you have actually included in the condemnation of state socialism, yet you are not willing to deal with the crimes of the repressive system and the sins of its participants, those who operate it. This is strange to me because the Simicska-Orbán war has become part of this issue, so you would clearly be interested in creating the right publicity. All of this is interesting and strange to me because you continue to have a very combative anti-communist rhetoric, while the practice shows that you are more of a supporter of the communist system and of its participants. It is time for you to change that, my fellow Members, and it is time to make the past absolutely clear. This is part of Hungary's past, and this needs to be clarified. Unfortunately, Fidesz has consciously resisted this. That should be changed right now. I think that every Hungarian citizen has the right to know our past, and, as I said, you are now interested in this, because you have experienced that you have been accused of your own Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Hungary, and he cannot defend himself because this information is not public. Technically, these suspicions can only be used for character killings. What do we propose in this Parliamentary resolution proposal? On the one hand, the Parliament would call on the Government to submit a law that would ensure adequate publicity within a closed deadline. By the way, in 2010, you made an obligation to submit it, to submit it, but you did not do so. As I said, opposition representatives and factions have done this countless times, and they have voted against it. We are waiting for you to present the idea that you think is right and discuss how to make public the past of state security more widely, since all the experts say that this is simply not guaranteed at the moment. On the other hand, this Parliamentary resolution proposal would call on the government to initiate negotiations with Moscow by 15 June, as, according to some, and here we are not talking about all kinds of bloggers, but, for example, the former Prime Minister Miklós Németh, so, according to some assumptions, Hungarian state security documents are found in Moscow, and Miklós Németh, to be exact, said that the only credible list of agents can be found in Moscow. It is therefore important that the government initiate negotiations on this. Thirdly, this Parliamentary resolution proposal would call on the government to set up a scientific body to properly place state security documents that may be recovered and are supposed to be in Moscow in the Hungarian archives and to ensure that it is made public. I think it is in everyone's interest to support this resolution proposal. The Prime Minister himself said here a few days ago that he himself supports any proposal that expands the rights of former observers. That is what this proposal is for, so I ask that you support this proposal tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-13-190	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative from each group of representatives can now express his position within a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. Statement will be made by Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group. [[17.20]]
u2015-04-13-191	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The May Other Politics has taken eight initiatives in the House in recent years to finally clean out the 25-year-old laundry. We have taken the initiative eight times, and we have taken an initiative at least once, in addition to public disclosure, that the Orbán government should act in Moscow in order to enable the KGB and NKVD documents with Hungarian relevance to be researchable. Of course, I am glad that we find followers, and of course I am glad that others agree with LMP's proposals so much that they practically copy-paste them. I think it's a good thing; up to the point that it was in our proposal three years ago that there really should be criminal sanctions for having such secret documents illegally and unauthorized. There is only one question: why couldn't these proposals be taken into account for the party of Gordon Bajnai when he was Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai or a member of the government? Your founder liked to govern as Prime Minister, he was a member of the government, many were also pro-government politicians before 2010, and at that time they did not work so hard to do so, they did not go to Moscow, at the most nuclear negotiations were conducted. So I think it would be fair for you to face this, and not just to take on the pleasure of Gordon Bajnai's legacy, if it is possible to talk about it at all. Dear Parliament, I would also like to add to the explanatory statement that, of course, it is not just the past that needs to be explored. The faction of the LMP has proposed eight times to explore the past of state security - and we also know what lies there in Moscow, even about the Hungarian political elite, because we believe that the change of regime, the economic transformation, has been closely linked with the transitioning communist state security elite - to find out what secret service information was provided by those who robbed this country after 89. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent Member, also announced in writing his intention to speak. I give you the floor.
u2015-04-13-193	Thank you very much. Over the last 25 years, there have been ongoing initiatives to explore the past of an agent; in recent years, among other things, the LMP, the Joint, has done so, and there have been political forces that have unfortunately done this experiment in vain. The past of the agent, the secrecy of the secret service files to this day and to the long future, is able to poison Hungarian political public life, so we cannot stop trying to keep our efforts in the public domain. It's not too late! If someone thought 25 years had passed, you could forget about the past, you could say no. History is always important to us, learning about our past is part of our identity, our consciousness, the foundation of our pride. Historical justice will never end, so today is just as timely to demand publicity from agent files as it was 5-10-15 or 20 years ago. I think that the job of the Hungarian Parliament, the fidesz majority, is not to conceal anti-communism, anti-communism, that it is in fact adamant, in fact unable to face the past, actually does not want to show who they are in this form of today. I think there is no easier task than finally publishing these files, and then we will be able to look proudly and with our heads raised before our offspring. Thank you very much. [[Szabolcs Szabó applauds.]]
u2015-04-13-194	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to speak in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group.
u2015-04-13-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As we have supported the eight proposals submitted by the LMP on this subject, we also support the inclusion of this proposal in the series, even though it is surprisingly different, although it is spooky. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, has asked for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-04-13-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the antallian legacy in which we are sitting, by the way, at the outset, that 25 years after the so-called regime change, we need to talk more and more about this issue. We've come to the point where all parties outside the Fidesz stand by the publicity of the agents' files. We've come to the point where everyone's on the side of facing the red past. We have come to the point that the Hungarian Socialist Party, the successor party, has managed to cleanse itself of the crimes of the party of state more than Fidesz, as it was supposedly organized against the party of state, was organized at the time. It is an old cliché that the Fidesz governments now have more communists than in the times of the MSZP governments, and you, my dear fellow Members of the Fidesz KDNP, continue to add to this, of course, with the shame that none of you will have a say in this matter; if you do, I apologize in advance, but I am afraid that this will not happen. 25 years after the change of regime, we still can't face what happened, we don't know who played a role in the history of state security at that time, in the work of state security. You have reason to believe that you are defending the rights of the victims. After 25 years, this society should be mature enough to face those sins, to be mature enough to process the things and events in those files, and to know, where appropriate, who has been motivated to work for state security. Not to mention that 25 years, two and a half decades after the change of regime, there is still a serious risk of foreign secret services, namely Russia, keeping documents about the Hungarian political and economic elite. I believe that the disclosure of these or at least the attempt to recover these materials should be essentially in the interest of national security. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We support the proposal, of course, as we have supported any proposal like this in recent years, and Jobbik will be the only one who will do it on government. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since I do not see the application of any other speakers, I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond. [[Szabolcs Szabó:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go.
u2015-04-13-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that the legislator of the rule of law cannot be in favour of the secrecy of dictatorship documents. This is a fundamental principle that cannot be passed, so I would once again strongly ask my fellow Members to support this proposal for a resolution tomorrow. Mr Schiffer went out in the debate elegantly, but I would like to say to him very gently that I knew that Bajnai Gordon had undertaken a crisis management and was very consciously abstaining from politics, but when he sat in Parliament after the 2014 elections, his first task was to sign a referral, a bill that would have made it possible to make public the past of state security. So from here on out, András Schiffer - I think - is banging open doors. Thank you very much, and I will ask you to support this proposal. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi applauds.]]
u2015-04-13-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on the second day of our meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The submission is H/4027. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal for an amendment closing a detailed discussion of the Defence and Police Committee as a designated committee is H/4027/6. and H/4027/7. was given to them. Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on a detailed discussion as a committee on the subject of the debate H/4027/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee H/4027/9. H/4027/10. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee indicated that it would later name the description of the minority opinion formulated in the committee. I will ask if one of the present members of the committee wishes to present the minority opinion later. [[On Dr. Tamás Bellozó's signal:]] Yes, thank you, Congressman. [[17 .30]] Dear Parliament, A total of 15 minutes is available to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. First, I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum time frame of 8 minutes.
u2015-04-13-201	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 9 April 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation H/4027. A proposal for a decision. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the three-point amendment proposed by the Defence Committee, the points 1 and 3 of which were unanimously supported by our committee, with the exception of 1 vote. Point 2 was supported by 23 yes, 1 against and 7 abstentions. In addition to the resolution on the amendment proposal, the Legislative Committee has adopted a technical amendment proposal for the entry into force of this Decision to enter into force at the time of its adoption. This is because it is not possible to have a debate on the possibility of a decision having retroactive effect at zero hours on the date of adoption. The aim of this proposal is to increase engagement to facilitate international coalition operations against the Islamic State terrorist organisation. From 2014 Hungary will participate in this cooperation in the second stage, which means that we will provide humanitarian aid to the international alliance, as well as military equipment and training. We would like to confirm this, for the following reason: the US Government has asked the Hungarian Government and, through this, the Hungarian Parliament to decide whether we will participate in this international cooperation. The Hungarian Defence Office wants to achieve this participation with volunteers and asks us to support it. Those who take those values seriously, such as human dignity, the protection of life, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, must support this proposal. The Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 21 votes in favour, 1 against and 7 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-13-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented, with a 7-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2015-04-13-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Sorry for the misunderstanding, we specifically remembered that at the meeting of the TAB, we asked for a report on the minority opinion, but this may have gotten lost. At the committee meeting it was the amendment of the Defence Committee, but in order to make Parliament and the public aware of it, two points from the three-point amendment proposal, the first point in principle from the amendment tabled by the MSZP, were taken over by the Defence Committee with some modification and recasting, but the essence is, and therefore we supported this type of amendment at the TAB, so that the Hungarian Parliament itself clearly indicates its commitment in principle, both in the effort to promote international peace and security and in the fight against terrorism, as well as in view of the fact that Hungary is a committed member of the international coalition against the terrorist organization Islamic State. In addition to the latter, it is important to stand up because today the vast majority of the Hungarian public has no idea that the Republic of Hungary has been a member of this international coalition for many years, based on an otherwise less public government decision, and it is clearly a committed member of this international coalition, since in recent years we have helped this fight by various means and with different contributions, which is otherwise correct and correct, and we believe that this proposal for a resolution deserves special commemoration because of the information of today's Hungarian citizens and the future referral. In addition, our proposal wanted to make it clear that what the government has said here in recent weeks and months in this case does not give rise to the minimum level of trust either, at least not on our part. Here is the request, there is no existence that this was now offered, for which we have received a technical request, or that we have received a real request in the past few weeks; these have been serious issues in the last few weeks, which we have received a clear answer to. In this respect, the government was not honest and fair, and it cannot be forgotten that they can say anything today, that the fact of our engagement outside the Magyar Nemzet was a month earlier not only the fact, but also its approximate exact content clearly shows us that this was all, but not just an invitation to which the Hungarian government responded, but also a pre-planned communication tool, which is not worthy of what is in the House, in the proposal for a resolution. Therefore, we have also tabled the amendment that, in our view, the Republic of Hungary should give a greater participation or greater contribution to this fight, but with the solution which does not, by the way, result in Hungarian soldiers going out there, they must go out into the battle zone. According to our solution proposal, this will continue to be the free transfer of military equipment from the incurrent stocks of the Hungarian Defence Forces - i.e. the transport of weapons - by training soldiers in the coalition states in Hungary, which will contribute to a substantial, significant improvement compared to today's state, as well as to the treatment of soldiers injured in the coalition states in the health centre of the Hungarian Defence Service, as well as to the provision of Hungarian Defence Airports and cyber defence capabilities. In our view, in addition to Hungary's ability to hold a load, the current state and financing of the defence, these are the justified and justified contributions that Hungary can make more out of this fight than it is today, but once again, it is important that we do not take soldiers abroad without real request and without real political request. As regards our voting behaviour and our attitude towards the amendments: clearly points 1 and 3, which were also included in our proposal, which obliges the Government to report to the Hungarian Parliament every six months on what is happening during the period spent out there and because of the 2nd amendment proposal, which was submitted by the Joint Committee - to our great surprise, to the great pleasure and support of the government - so we could only stay on the TAB at this proposal. Tomorrow, with regard to the final vote and this amendment, we will tie our own vote and our possible vote in favour to the fact that the substantive proposal of the MSZP, as set out in point 2, that I have just presented, is accepted or not by the majority of the Hungarian Parliament, which will determine what we will follow in the final vote. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-04-13-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister Csaba Hende indicated that he would like to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, The opinion of the designated Defence and Police Committee will be presented by two speakers, and I will give the floor first to Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-205	[[There's a cell phone on the phone.]] Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Members, [[He's looking at his phone. Intercoms from opposition lines.]] It's not mine. It's off. I was just checking. Someone's phone is on and it's jamming the transmission. Mr. President. Dear House, In view of the fact that the other majority rapporteur for the committee, Ágnes Vadai, indicated that he could not be present at the hearing [[Dr. András Schiffer: Representative!]] That's why I'm going to use the entire time as agreed. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] The Defence and Police Committee adopted a compromise proposal and a package during the debate, which has two essential elements and some technical clarification. One of the essential elements is the revision of the preamble. In the preamble we presented the text supported by the TAB, namely that Hungary is committed to creating and strengthening international peace and security, and that Hungary is committed to fighting international terrorism. [[17.40]] The second point, which added to the preamble, is that Hungary is otherwise declaring it, and in the preamble it refers to its participation in this international cooperation, we will enter the second and first categories with this decision. The other essential element came from the representative of the Együtt, which indicated that the competent minister of the Hungarian Government should report on the status of the mission to the relevant committees on demand, but - and this obligation - at least once per session. Therefore, even if there is no specific request, report once per session, i.e. every six months, essentially on the status of the mission. The reason why the Defence Committee finally had to go into this was because it was accepted by the Committee as a compromise proposal. It was a technical amendment that was initiated by the Joint Committee, and we accepted that. The point was that, in fact, this task force function, which, by the way, is not based on the assumption of genuine, meaningful and no kind of manipulation, apart from the immense imagination of MSZP representatives, who, by the way, also claim without hesitation that it is white under certain restrictive conditions or vice versa, because it doesn't matter to them, it is obvious that they are looking for an argument for rather inexplicable and indefensible positions, so this proposal contained linguistic and translation elements, which was actually accepted by the committee, and we also made a compromise proposal in this regard. So, overall, I have to say that Hungarian participation in the request made by the Iraqi Government to the UN, which was also recognised by the United Nations Security Council in two resolutions, and the US Government has been entrusted with coordinating this international action organised at the request of the Iraqi Government, so, on the basis of this mandate, there has obviously been an invitation to participate in a fully legitimate international action in international law, which did not say that it was a kind Hungarian government or a Hungarian parliament, make suggestions on how you would like to take part in this action, but expressed completely concrete and clear tasks. And he asked us to say yes, that in this coalition, which, by the way, is intended to prevent crimes against humanity, not in such a way that the affected areas are occupied by anyone within Iraq or Syria, but by the resistance and inhabitants of that country, the Kurdish army, the pesmerga warriors, to defend themselves against this raging terror. So I think that this kind of help, that we train them to be able to defend themselves, because, by the way, the terror carried out by the Islamic State is supported by a narrow minority in the affected area, so that's what we need to say yes or no, and it's not what we've been asked to think about, what we want to do; which is right, because a military action is usually not organised with children, what we should do, talk about it, but there is a clear leadership, there is strategic planning, and there is strategic planning, and in it they are looking for co-operatives with the mandate for the purposes that they designate. That is why we said that we can't do anything with the proposal that says the MSZP fraction is good, but not in this way, but in any case, we're not transporting ammunition and we're delivering training, we're delivering bandages, and I don't know, we're doing medical training, because that's not what the request was for, and it's not customary to organize any kind of international action. Overall, the letter of invitation was, of course, viewed by the representatives concerned, and the opposition representatives also looked at it, and I saw it with my own eyes, and I checked that Agnes Vadai, others who had the right to do so as members of the committee, did so. Overall, therefore, the Defence Committee has negotiated these compromise proposals, accepted them, and, together with this, calls on this House to support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-207	Mr. President. Dear House, In this debate, we have repeatedly expressed our position on the fight against the terrorist organisation Islamic State. Therefore, I would like to record very briefly, in points, what I have said here as a majority of the Commission's opinions. The Islamic State is a terrorist organization carrying out crimes against humanity. He's been terrorizing people, everyone on the Internet has seen what the horror they represent is. They kill people on racial, religious, and religious grounds, and they carry out actual terror. All of this is done, however, without any legitimacy that can be called a 'legitimate' in this area. It is not justified to call themselves states because no one recognizes them, and even a very significant part of Islam's followers have already acted against them and reject them. The latest news also shows that terror grows beyond all borders and common sense, as destruction of Assyrian archaeological monuments to the ground means the destruction of the cultural treasure of all mankind, for which no meaningful explanation can be found. Therefore, we thought that when an invitation came to Hungary for cooperation in this international coalition, Parliament would have to grant a two-thirds authorisation whether or not Hungary would accept it. As of 2014, the Hungarian government has been involved in the humanitarian and military equipment-only operation on behalf of Hungary, and in this cooperation organised by 62 countries, this is the second stage. The Hungarian Parliament can give the Hungarian government and the Hungarian army the power to participate in this international cooperation organised by the United States. It has always been said that up to a maximum of 150 people will be closed, i.e. until 31 December 2017. For various reasons, Parliament's political forces tended to consider, on the basis of internal political considerations, the response to this request, respect for the exception. We believe that when it comes to combating crimes against humanity, such consideration is difficult to justify. We thought that all the excuses made - who signed the letter of inquiry, on the basis of which authority, whether President Obama put down the document on which CENTCOM's colonel confirms his right to speak on behalf of the US Government - had been signed by the Colonel of CENTCOM and all the other nonsense, which I think is unworthy of the whole subject - which the dear socialist fellows have brought forward, by the way, shows that, as we have seen many times in history, participation in such international cooperation is considered by the Socialists as a maximum domestic political issue and is being conducted from this point of view. From this point of view, Jobbik's position is much more consistent, and it can be summarized in a sentence that what the Americans have cooked for themselves should be eaten, and that has nothing to do with us. Of course, it can be said or asked whether it is legitimate to ask this question in the case of crimes against humanity, because we have often said that we could ask a number of important questions about the former American and the current Middle East policy, as well as how many times, for example, that the Middle Eastern guerrillas trained by Americans later turned against their trainers and burned whole countries or parts of countries. But at the same time, we are talking about the protection of values that are, by the way, universal and important to everyone, and we have said that, of course, these issues must be discussed. [[17.50]] But when it comes to the protection of our ultimate values, the protection of our civilisational values, everything we say and believe in, the right to human dignity, the life, dignity, religion, belief, identity, and so that no one can be physically threatened on this basis, especially in the way that the Islamic State does, well, if, in this situation, many of the opposition representatives have said this, absolutely rightly, it is not for the Hungarian government, but for the cause. I think that this is the right thing to do, so to speak, because all internal political considerations on this matter are, by the way, extremely false. We think this is ultimately a military operation. We think that the strategic idea of training the people who live there to defeat this monster is basically right. Unfortunately, I am not at liberty to share with Members, but I would just like to refer to the fact that cooperation with the Kurdish State and the Iraqi Government, the Pesmerga warriors, is so detailed in order to achieve this strategic goal that they sometimes impose considerations which make it difficult for the immediate success of military actions, because in political terms they do not want to appear in the face of anyone being an invader, or any foreign soldier protecting and defending foreign interests against the locals. Unfortunately, the specific information on this issue is confidential, but I was also amazed at how prudent this is at the committee's meeting, and I will say once again that the circumstances which may be difficult for specific military purposes should be taken into account. But without a doubt, one can finally - sigh, knowing the circumstances - remembers the strategic designers that the quick military solution is not enough in itself, but that the political solution after the military solution must also be taken into account, otherwise we will end up as in many Middle Eastern actions, that the armed conflict can just be won, but just not peace, and consolidation becomes almost impossible. This is not the case, so it should be considered in particular that this is supported by the Hungarian Parliament. Overall, Fidesz's position on the request, which was formulated on behalf of the United States Government - by the way, Barack Obama did not sign the letter, but it was certainly not noticed that the Hungarian offices also function because, on behalf of the Hungarian Government, not all letters are signed by the Prime Minister, it does not mean that he is not authorised to act on behalf of the government; however strange it is, this must be said, because at the closed committee meeting there were debates that had to be held that the Hungarian Government had confirmed and verified that he was indeed the Colonel, who declared a mandate on behalf of CENTCOM in the United States, was, was accompanied by a photograph, and is there a copy of the signature which actually quotes Jenő Myster's turns - I believe that the request, which has to be answered in a completely concrete, yes or no way. And anyone who not only likes to say that crimes against humanity must be dealt with, and the values that are at risk here are important, but also sometimes something needs to be done to support it with a good heart. I urge everyone to do this, understanding all the reservations, understanding what the Members said in the debate and stressing that we too could have a lot of questions and reservations - there are only moments when this is not the issue. There have been many times in Hungarian history when such questions could not be asked. I wish there could have been some very important questions provided, but there are times when we have to work together, because there are fundamental values at stake that must be protected at all costs. That is why I propose that the Hungarian Parliament support this international action and its participation in it. And who, dear Members, refers to Hungarian security, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if someone does this in a consistent way, we must take a series of steps to protect Hungarian security, which I have not heard yet that someone is determined to do. For example, we have also said this in the debate, the cartoon exhibition organized by the French Institute in Budapest by the daily newspaper Charlie Hebdo clearly increases Hungary's exposure and the Hungarian terrorist threat. This does not imply that this exhibition should be banned at all. Because if someone is referring to Hungarian security, then you should raise that question. There are many examples that clearly increase Hungary's exposure, but we still think that if we believe in what we say and represent, this is not the only way to go. I think that we need to curb the terrorist organisation called the Islamic State in an international sense, and that is how we can truly serve our security interests. Otherwise, the actions of the Islamic State prove that a person who does not participate in anything is not safe, because it is not about the story, nor is terror about acting according to a specific logic, because madness is in every way, and there is no logic in it. And what's logical about it, we mustn't make it our own. That is why I call on the honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Dezső Incredible.]]
u2015-04-13-208	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, the Jobbik Group, also announced his intention to speak in writing. I give you the floor.
u2015-04-13-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last month, the Foreign Affairs Committee has met several times in connection with the military mission against ISIS, sometimes together with the National Security Committee. Of course, we have discussed the essence of this mission on several occasions and we have been waiting for answers to a number of questions. We have received answers to certain questions and have assessed them as appropriate, but most of our questions have not been answered properly. Of course, the parties agree, from Jobbik to LMP and Fidesen to MSZP, that the activity of ISIS, which is equal to genocide and crimes against humanity, is condemned, and the spread of the Islamic State must, of course, be stopped and condemned. However, a number of questions have been raised that have not been answered at any committee meeting. For example, why Hungary has to decide so quickly and so quickly on such an international mission, the risks of which, in the course of a month, the official bodies apparently did not have the opportunity to clarify. At committee meetings, military policy aspects were decisive. We were relieved to hear that the Hungarian soldiers were able to carry out a narrowly defined task in Erbíl, the task they were asked to perform; I have no doubt about it. We know that Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian soldiers are good, and that they can perform the task they were asked to do professionally. However, the main blow of this type of warfare is not military, but the fight against terrorism, we are facing an asymmetric war, and the primary question is not whether our soldiers can stand their ground in Erbíl, but whether the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian authorities, are able to guarantee the safety of Hungarian people here in Hungary. National security issues arise as a result of a decision on such a mission. We remember that the request from the United States of America was received on 6 March. We understand - although I myself did not sit at the committee meeting mentioned by my fellow Member Lajos Kósa - that the American Central Command received a request of this type from a simple, simple officer, a military request, which led to the Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Hungary declaring on 6 March that the American request came, so that Hungary must comply with its duty, and that international expectations must be met. [[18.00]] We have no such obligation, no need to meet any international requirements. In particular, because there is neither a UN mandate behind the mission nor a NATO mandate behind the mission, there is no expectation of this mission from any NATO treaty, there is no expectation of Hungary. This is not a mission under the auspices of the United Nations, nor a mission under the auspices of NATO. In this sense, we do not understand why the Hungarian government had to make such an offer. So why did it have to be overachieved or overwhelmed even countries that are significantly larger than Hungary could sacrifice significantly more for this type of mission? Hungary's military mission is even beyond Germany's. We do not understand why you have to go to Hungary with a budget of HUF 20 billion, offering 150 soldiers to go to a mission that others approach much more carefully and circumstantially. Obviously, there are many ways to take part in the campaign against ISIS. There are those who provide political support against him, some who are involved in the military, but some who only assist in humanitarian aid. We are convinced that humanitarian aid would be what Hungary could do in comparison to its power by fulfilling all its obligations morally. It is very important, and perhaps it is time that, before Hungary resumes another dubious military mission, we appreciate a little bit what kind of missions we have been involved in and what results we have achieved since our NATO membership. Well, there are still Hungarian soldiers out there in Afghanistan, we've declared war against the Taliban, with the United States of America on our side. Obviously, it's a NATO mission, but in the last 14 years, this mission has not been able to produce any results. In Iraq, in 2003, Saddam Hussein's government was overthrown by the U.S. military, American soldiers. This was also an international mission, assisted by many Western states. NATO destabilized another country in the region, created a void, and left a huge mess. How the Islamic State came into being would be worth a little thought, to see how the Islamic State could have been created. There is no need to go too far in the search, to listen to Wesley Clark, a retired general of NATO, a former NATO general deployed to Europe, who told CNN that the United States of America and its allies created the Islamic State against Hezbollah and against the Syrian Assad regime a few years ago, when it served the interests of the United States of America most. We still don't know how the United States feels about the Islamic State. We do not know how this terrorist organization, this Caliphate, could have been created in the course of a year, how it was able to create almost a state machine, generate revenue, create a serious state that is capable and challenging for the international community. Where does the Islamic State receive support and supplies both in terms of human resources and in terms of financial support? Before we engage in such a dubious venture, it would be very good to see clearly in these matters, so that it does not occur to our own allies on our side that we are fighting a war with our own allies, in which no one can tell us. That is why the Jobbik Movement for Hungary says that it is completely irresponsible to take part in this campaign and mission until these issues are clarified. We need to assess these questions, get answers to these questions, and then think about the extent and manner of Hungary's involvement in the campaign against ISIS. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group, who also made a written statement of his intention to speak.
u2015-04-13-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Hungary does not have an obligation to participate in international law. This cannot be derived from either the UN Resolution or the NATO Treaty. This alone is sufficient reason to say that Hungarian soldiers should not be taken abroad. However, I would like to respond to what was said here by Lajos Kósa in a very lyrical manner. Dear fellow Member, I also said in the general debate that we should not question the fact that, here in this House, we share the same view of the horrors of the Islamic State, regardless of party standing, regardless of the world view, and that we are likely not only in the Hungarian Parliament, but also in all the parliaments of the world. Three times he took a huge circle to say odes about the importance of human dignity and what moral obligation we have when human dignity is violated in another country. It is completely discredited from your mouth, from the mouth of dear Congressman Kósa and any of the Fidesz politicians, as we also know how they act against the followers of the Falun Gong sect, for example, with the support of the Chinese central government, and with state support, violent organ extractions are taking place. Now, Hungary not only does not object, but also wants close economic cooperation with such a country. From now on, this argument is infinitely false, Congressman Kósa. Put it away. What we need to talk about is what we know, what we don't know about this case. You have also acknowledged at committee meetings that Hungary, you are right about this, will increase the existing risk of internal security following military engagement. How much this will cost the Hungarian budget, exactly what additional budget expenditure will result from participation, you have no idea of this, nor do you have any idea of the nature of the security risk increase. This is what Hungarian people are curious about in the first place. Two, we agree we're dealing with a monster here. I would not wish to enter into what Márton Gyöngyösi said here, that it might also be worth exploring how this monster has come to life, but there is no doubt that when it comes to international intervention, we have a responsibility for the area where we wish to intervene. The war on terrorism has cost 1 million 300 thousand civilians in the last 15 years. It is necessary to see that in many cases these wars have destabilized territories, and such monster terrorist organizations can infiltrate the space of power. And we don't know exactly what kind of financial, technical and not least human reinforcements this terrorist state or terrorist organization is constantly receiving. One thing we do know, however, is that the European Union and Hungary in it would certainly have the opportunity to act effectively to detect and cut supply routes. We, too, use our modest tools to propose to the Hungarian Parliament how to increase and improve the action of Hungarian services and law enforcement bodies, so that, for example, Hungary is not used as a transit route by those who want to arrive in northern Kurdistan from other European countries. Then these humanitarian tyrades were not important to you, Congressman Kósa. Let's talk facts. However, the facts are that we do not know for the time being either about the increase in internal security risks or about who this opponent is, what potential human, technical and financial supply base he has. However, with a deeper EU cooperation, these supply bases could be eliminated. Dear Parliament, One thing, of course, I have to tell Lajos Kósa the truth when he talks about reasons: international expectations. There are international expectations - and here is the dog. What we are facing is that you are pursuing a perfectly dilettious foreign policy, where you believe that Viktor Orbán's poker game looks like the price of Russian advances and Eastern openings can be paid here by sending soldiers to Northern Iraq. It can be paid when we submit to American demands for free trade negotiations. [[18.10]] That's what I'm talking about. There is an international expectation, and in this case Hungary cannot go against international expectations in the Orbán logic, since its positions have long since been eliminated by rubbing against Moscow, the Paks Pact and other foreign policy moves aimed at Hungary's interests. Congressman Kósa, there is only one thing that we need: a truly national foreign policy. You are clearly unfit for this, and do not make Hungarian soldiers pay for it and the sense of security of the Hungarian people! Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group, asked for the floor in a normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2015-04-13-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly, in response to what my colleague Kósa said. Mr. President... did you leave? Is he here? He ran away. Well...! [[Dr. András Schiffer: He's gone!]] Then I'm sorry. That's when I say it to the Fidesz who's still here. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin, pointing to the box: There she is!]] So, the thing is, we don't have to ask ourselves how much this is a political issue and an internal political issue and how much it isn't. A fair government, a decent political force - which has also been the case in the past - begins in such a case by sitting down with those opposition parties and giving them maximum information on this issue, whose votes may be expected to be voted on later. This was the case in the past. It does not appear in the Hungarian nation a month earlier, what the government wants or does not want, and this clearly shows that it was not an invitation, but an offer, which, by the way, confirms what my fellow Member Schiffer has clearly said here. But since we have already made this issue clear in the keynote speech, my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, has said quite straight and hard sentences on this, I would not like to repeat it. The only question we have to this day is: if you look at the percentage of the army, what is the reason for how many soldiers go out and how many soldiers have a country? Tell me why Hungary is participating in this mission with a three-fold number compared to its own forces, as is the United States; that it is taking part in this mission with about six-fold numbers, like Canada, that it is taking part in this mission with twelve-fold numbers, as is France, and that it is taking part in this mission with fifteen-fold numbers as Germany. The latter two are also affected by the fact that their own citizens are fighting on the other side in a very small number; the citizens of these countries participate in hundreds and thousands of counts as volunteers on the side of the Islamic State. According to our knowledge and the government's information, Hungary is not affected in this respect. In other ways, yes, and in terms of commitment, yes. But if someone can justify to me why we should be involved with 12 resources compared to a German or a French player compared to our own resources, we would be very curious. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-04-13-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak on this item. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. [[Sallai R. Benedict: We'd like KDNP time.]] I don't see any contact. I give you the floor... [[To Zsuzsanna Szelényi:]] Excuse me, Congresswoman. No two-minute speeches are possible. I can speak to you in a normal time frame. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Congressman, I am still in charge of this meeting, and I would like to take note of that. The congresswoman pressed the wrong button. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Cancel!]] Please indicate that I can speak to you in a normal time frame. The time frame available is two minutes. Here you go.
u2015-04-13-215	Thank you very much for the floor. I've got two minutes, either way, anyway. Hungarian participation against the Islamic State and participation in the intervention have already been mentioned several times in this House, and I think, as before, that this matter is above all about whether Hungary is present in the world, whether Hungary considers itself to be a country whose job is to take action in a form and manner appropriate to its power in international matters; we believe that Hungary must take action against genocide, do we think that we need to take solidarity with those countries from whom we expect to stand with us in other cases. In this case, I am referring to the European countries. It is not an obligation, but a commitment that supports my participation in this intervention on a principled basis. There has been a lot of consideration on the agenda during the Commission's hearings over the past months or weeks, and we all know that this is not a risk-free business. I have asked many questions to the various leaders, and I think that the most important three questions for me are whether the Hungarian Defence Office is technically, theoretically, capable of preparing soldiers to participate in such an intervention. I think that we all think that the answer is yes, and the experience of many of the current missions suggests this. If we are trying to find out whether Hungary is able to prepare for the different risks, we can say that this can be tried to the fullest. We probably can't rule out any risks. Today's world, like the former worlds, is not risk-free [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and all kinds of dangers persist. I think it is my suggestion that Parliament's control role should be increased and that this has been supported by the government. [[The president's ringing again.]] , it is convincing that this intervention can be supported on the basis of considerations of principle. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-216	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As no other speakers have made themselves known, the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende, who, as rapporteur, wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-04-13-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, there have been serious and misleading allegations in the debate, which I am obliged to correct in a prerogative only so that the Hungarian public can put these false statements in their place. It was said here by Márton Gyöngyösi and András Schiffer, one of them said that there was no UN mandate behind the mission, that was Márton Gyöngyösi, and András Schiffer said that the mission could not be derived from the UN resolution. This is a grave mistake, honourable Congressman Schiffer. The UN Security Council has decided twice on this issue. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Military engagement...]] , on 15 August 2014 in Decision No 2170 and on 24 September in Decision No 2178. In point 18 of the latter decision, it explicitly calls on Member States to cooperate and support efforts to combat extreme violence, which could lead to combating terrorism, including capacity building, coordination of plans and efforts to do so, as well as sharing experiences and lessons learned. Capacity building is clearly one of the main objectives of the mission carried out by more than sixty countries, the basis of which is supported by a letter from the Republic of Iraq to the United Nations in addition to these UN resolutions. On this basis, according to all participating States, I refer here to the UK and the Netherlands Governments, who have stated in separate statements that there is sufficient international legal basis for this intervention and for this activity. So to say that international law cannot lead to the launch or accession to this mission is a serious technical and material error that I had to draw attention to. [[18.20]] The United States has taken the lead in this coalition. The President of the United States, the head of the government, the Central Command in Tampa, Florida, has given CENTCOM the authority to carry out military planning. Those referring to a written request from CENTCOM probably don't know and it's humiliating that, by the way, the President of the United States is fully empowered by this military command, on which Hungarian officers have been serving for many years. So, in this sense, there is continuous consultation both orally and in writing, especially with regard to joint military actions. And it is as our fellow Member Lajos Kósa said, it is not an idea parade to participate in such a mission, it is not about who's idea or suggestion, it is about planning a military operation a very precise operation [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: The Hungarian Parliament decides here! István Apáti: Who takes responsibility?]] In the process of power generation, designers call on individual nations and ask them to undertake certain sub-tasks. Here I would like to turn to Tamás Harangozó's suggestion as to why we wish to send so many soldiers into the region. Because, my honourable fellow Member, the task we are going to carry out simply requires so many people. You can't take care of that with fewer people. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We have to do something else.]] The question is not that, given the population of Hungary or the number of forces, this is in proportion to the contribution of other nations. This is a completely irrelevant question. The safety of Hungarian soldiers, on the one hand, and the performance of the task, on the other hand, the Honvéd Chief Choir, which cooperates with the central command of the United States, requires so many people, such strength and the installation of such devices, according to its experts and calculations. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Then you must take on another task.]] As for the question of why we are going to this area, the answer is very simple. In this area, a state-like terrorist organization, organized for unprecedented carnage, cruelty, inhumanity, calls itself a state, a Caliphate, which has put the people of the region at risk. These people, the Kurds, the Christians, the Yazidians want to fight for nothing but their own lives, the honor of their daughters, the lives of their sons, and they ask us to ask the international community through the UN to help, to provide training, training, support for this struggle. It is our moral duty to do this, and the Government of Hungary has tabled this proposal for a resolution because we believe that this engagement is in line with both our international obligations and our national interests. I therefore call on this House to vote in favour of and to accept this proposal for a decision with the amendments which I have supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-218	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place on the second day of our meeting. [[István Apáti: It's bad enough!]] Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal to set up a claim management fund to ensure the settlement of claims against Quaestor victims follows. Antal Rogán, Erik Bánki, György Balla, Bence Tuzson, Gergely Gulyás, Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz, MPs' own motion T/4347. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 20 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 5 minutes for a statement by the representative of the Government, 6 minutes for a statement by the Legislative Committee, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10-10 minutes for the speeches of the political groups, 3 minutes for the speeches of the independent Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tuzson, the rapporteur on the agenda. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the Member that he has a total period of 20 minutes for his speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This legislation will be another step if it is adopted by Parliament, in the process of compensation, in the process of tidying up the financial system. In connection with these types of broker scandals, we have already passed a law, the essence of which is to take the wealth that might have been created by the sinners in this case, whether they are companies, whether they are private individuals, relatives of private individuals, or all those to whom this money may have come. However, there is a specific situation in the case of Quaestor, which justifies the fact that in this case we will bring a separate piece of legislation to settle the compensation, the compensation process, and do not have to wait for people to pay full compensation in order to have a court procedure lasting for years or even a decade, and at the end of that, they may be able to enforce their civil needs or possibly not be able to enforce them. In order to avoid the situation that has arisen so many times in the past, when people have not been able to make use of their claims for damages after a long time, such as the case of Hajdú-Bet, to which we all remember, we now wish to submit to Parliament a law governing the process of settlement of claims, which regulates that essentially everyone who is the victim of this process, of this evil, can receive their money up to a threshold of HUF 30 million. Forint 30 million is the threshold that is included in this legislation. So far, the newly established claims fund would compensate all those who have been deceived and deceived in relation to Quaestor bonds. In this case, Quaestor, the Quaestor Group, sold and sold its own bonds, as we know that it sold more bonds by HUF 150 billion than it would otherwise have been possible. This is a huge amount of money, but it also means that bonds that have been issued properly have become almost completely worthless as a result of this transaction. The situation is therefore different in this case and in the case of the sale of shares or other securities of third companies by investment service providers. Accordingly, we propose a specific regulation in which, in addition to BEVA, which, by virtue of its legislation, undertakes to indemnify in some cases up to HUF 6 million, we propose an additional compensation: for everyone who has thought or had a real Quaestor bond, there should be compensation up to HUF 30 million. There are 73 persons in total who will not be affected by this indemnification in this case, and they have a claim of more than HUF 30 million that could arise from the bonds against Quaestor. They have two options: either accept the compensation of HUF 30 million or apply their needs in a longer civil process. Our aim is to ensure that all those who have suffered damage have access to their money as soon as possible, so we would also like to go through the process in an accelerated procedure: 30 days is available to spread people's needs, 30 days is available to assess them, and another 30 days to make the payment in this respect. We believe that, at the end of this process, a large majority of people will be able to obtain their money by the end of July, so that we can conclude this process and capitalise the fund accordingly. [[18.30]] The process of recapitalisation of the fund will consist of several steps. Those who are members of BEVA must advance this amount of money, and I stress the advance because during this process everyone who has a bond transfers it to this fund, the fund is able to enforce claims, and investment service providers are able to recover the funds that will be transferred to the fund. Accordingly, this is an advance, largely an advance, and here it is also possible for the Hungarian National Bank to provide a bridging loan in order for this fund to function properly. We believe that we are creating a system that is just, we are doing justice on this issue, in which justice is the moral obligation of everyone, because it is an act that has affected many people, and this type of misdemeanor has not been committed in Hungary. Accordingly, this legislation, which is part of a package, because we already had legislation - as I said - in order to seize the money, we now have legislation on speeding up compensation for Quaestor, and there will also be a package of legislation that will strengthen the control procedure in the long term, and accordingly we can make sure that in the future we do not have something that has happened in the past and that people do not have to run after their money in this way. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-220	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Member, as rapporteur, that he still has 14 minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert stands up.]] Yeah, I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-04-13-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the government has not met since the submission of the motion by its own representatives, so the government has not yet been able to discuss the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-13-222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, with a total time frame of 6 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee, in a three-minute time frame.
u2015-04-13-223	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that today the Legislative Committee has negotiated T/4347 under a provision other than the Rules of the House. The draft law on the establishment of a claim management fund to ensure the settlement of claims against Quaestor victims was submitted by the Committee with 25 yes and 4 abstentions, i.e. without voting against. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own proposal, and the opposition amendment was not supported by either the national or the committee. Given that the purpose of the bill is to resolve the situation of investors affected by the issuance of bonds by the Quaestor Group, the bill therefore decides to set up a claim management and compensation fund. In order to achieve this objective, it is appropriate to extend the scope of distribution organisations to related undertakings. The amending proposal also allows, inter alia, a loan to be taken out in order to ensure the functioning of the Fund. Overall, the summarised amendment will help the Quaestor victims to make their investments even smoother and more efficient. As part of the presentation of the majority position, I wanted to inform the Honourable Parliament about this. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, To present the minority opinion of the committee, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We mentioned in the Legislative Committee that the Hungarian Socialist Party had a legislative proposal a week or two ago on compensation, immediate and full compensation, which was not on the agenda by the House Committee; compared with this, the Fidesz proposal is being discussed today, with a derogation from the Rules of the House. I objected to that at the Legislative Committee meeting. In addition, we tabled five amendments to the committee, all five of which would have served to ensure fair, smooth and equitable compensation for the victims. Our first proposal was to give Quaestor victims access to their invested funds for up to HUF 30 million, but also to victims of financial abuse in other broker companies, since this bill is only about Quaestor, not about Buda-Cash or Hungária companies. The other proposal was that the Parliament should not limit the scope of the law to the bonds, as the Quaestor victims did not specifically purchase bonds in a contract of sale, but financial instruments, which we wanted to include in the law. We wanted to make it possible to fill the gap beyond the 30-day deadline, although this fund could make a rule, as we heard from Congressman Tuzson at the committee meeting, that it would be possible to do so, and we wanted the law itself to provide that there should be a 15-day deficit deadline, and that the loss of rights should expire at the end of the deficit deadline, because it is a very complicated matter, because the victims have very little information, so we would have asked. We wanted the nominal value not to be explicitly included in this law, since some people bought bonds on the primary market, i.e. at nominal value, but some people on the secondary market paid more for these bonds, so they might lose their money invested. And we would also like to mention that, in addition to the remaining amount not to be compensated, the victims could turn to the Hungarian National Bank for damage caused by administrative powers in order to obtain compensation for their investment. These amendments were not accepted by the Fidesz majority of the Legislative Committee with better assistance. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the factions have a timeframe of 10 to 10 minutes, while the independent Members have a total of 3 minutes. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. We now have a speech from Congressman Bence Tuzson, Fidesz Group.
u2015-04-13-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond briefly to what I've just raised once I've had the floor. On the one hand, I have already explained how important it is to know what circle we are indemnifying, and why this is a special case, and how this case is different, specifically from that of other brokerage firms like Quaestor. In this case, an own bond was issued, so the company issued the security itself, and the group of companies sold it itself. This is a completely different case than when there is a company that only sells bonds, shares or any other securities, but a third person independent of it produces this security, and usually these securities exist or, if they do not exist, an institution is the compensation system for BEVA, which is also a functioning, good compensation system. This is what we see in the case of Buda-Cash, where, in fact, in cooperation with the OBA and BEVA, almost the whole circle or most of it, the compensation for most of the people will be done. The question is, can anyone else be in this circle? Actually, I think we can wrap this up with this case. It is understandable that in a special case a special piece of legislation is worth making. [[18.40]] The other proposal was to cover not only bonds but also other types of securities. This is also covered by the rule that other types of securities are still covered by the BEVA compensation scheme, so it is an existing compensation scheme, but the basic problem here was not that there were no other types of securities, since, as far as we know, Quaestor has the foreign securities; the problem is its own securities, the problem with its own bonds. In the event that we raise this amount in such a way as to involve other securities in the compensation, then, where appropriate, customers could do worse, since they could lose their securities at nominal value, even though they would otherwise be entitled to it. A misunderstanding in this regard must be resolved, since in the event that foreign securities are managed by investment service providers and held accounts for them, the amount of money included in this account, which is expressed in the form of shares, i.e. a share, a sovereign debt, in the case of whose name this account is addressed. Accordingly, they should be issued, it is unnecessary to include this in a separate indemnification procedure when these shares and securities are returned to the person otherwise owned. Accordingly, indeed - the further question was still to this point - the deficiency procedure is a rule, there is now a rule in this legislation, but, like the BEVA system, where there are a little more stringent rules, we would like to raise the possibility here, given that this procedure is not backed by an administrative body, but by a different body, therefore the Ket. Its rules do not apply to this and should therefore also lay down its rules on the basis of which the detailed compensation process takes place. There you can see exactly what the necessary deadlines are, based on previous experience and the experience of BEVA, apply the previous rules mutatis mutandis and conduct the compensation process. This fund is special in that its manager is BEVA, behind it is BEVA's organizational system, so that the compensation process can be reasonably linked to each other, and therefore a single settlement process can be established and the question of people getting their money as soon as possible can be resolved. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-04-13-228	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP Group, will be speaking. You have the floor.
u2015-04-13-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, I do not wish to repeat and recall the debate that we had in the Legislative Committee, as I did in the form of a minority opinion, but I must nevertheless express my opinion on the bill in itself and the opinion of the Hungarian Socialist Party. We see, as Congressman Tuzson has said, that he regulates a specific situation and case, but in different ways, much higher compensation amounts than in relation to persons injured in other brokerage companies. I do not think that my fellow Member will dispute this either. So if this legislative process, also quoted by my fellow Member Tuzson, were really fair and fair, then I think that it will not be possible to avoid facing the liquidation process at Buda-Cash and Hungaria, and customers and victims there will be faced with a loss of investment over HUF 6 million, that the settlement of this will still be waiting for Parliament, as it would be unfair that the victims of one brokerage company will receive compensation of HUF 30 million, while in the other, say, HUF 6 million. My fellow Member Tuzson also suggested that, yes, financial instruments issued by a third party may or may not be involved in other financial instruments such as Buda-Cash and Hungária, while at Quaestor, the financial instrument issued by its own company. I don't know why the difference between this is so great, because if this financial instrument doesn't exist in any of these places, then I think there's no way to distinguish between those who are damaged by a brokerage company and those who are hurt by another company. So this will have to be dealt with. The bill also contains a number of provisions that have not been mentioned here in the introduction and introduction. One of the last provisions of the bill itself regulates that the financial service providers, with which this fund will be filled, will only advance the repayment obligation to the fund. So when you communicate and say that you do not solve compensation with public money and not with taxpayers' money, that is not true in this respect, because the bill also states that when liquidation proceedings are completed, and there will be wealth left in it, or at the end of the criminal proceedings, the confiscation of assets or money will be made, this will be returned to this fund, and the financial institutions that are contributing to this will receive their advances back. However, if this amount will not be sufficient for financial service providers to get it back, they will be able to write it off from their taxes under a separate law. So, if this happens, this tax revenue, which is now charged to financial institutions, is not going to go into the budget, so obviously it will be necessary to look for a source from which the budget will be able to bear these amounts, or there will be insufficient revenue for expenditure, and then it will be done elsewhere. Thus, in the end, repayments to financial institutions and banks are made out of public money. That is why we have constantly stressed over the last few days and weeks that financial supervision is inevitable, the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank has been inevitable over the past period, since as a financial supervisory body, he should have noticed, responded and taken the necessary measures to ensure that this damage does not occur, as financial institutions have a daily reporting obligation to the Hungarian National Bank. In addition, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank carried out a full investigation at Quaestor last year and decided to establish Quaestor Bank in February this year, so the supervisors of the National Bank were already outside and did not notice this brutal abuse. I think their responsibility is inevitable. That is why we suggested that if the Hungarian National Bank has the money to support its various foundation foundations, led by György Matolcsy, from tens of billions of forints, and has a financial means to buy luxury estates, it should not use these funds to finance Matolcsy's educational program, but, for example, to compensate those who have suffered a brokerage scandal. There was also a debate in the Legislative Committee. We were accused that the Hungarian National Bank's money was public money. I would like to tell you that I asked Mihály Varga and György Matolcsy in writing whether this money is public money or not. They replied that no, it does not constitute public money for more than HUF 200 billion at the disposal of the Hungarian National Bank. Therefore, it would not be possible for public money to compensate the damage to the victims to be paid by the Hungarian National Bank, and, as I mentioned above, there is also the title of this compensation for damage caused by administrative powers, since its responsibility is quite clear to the Hungarian National Bank, it did not fulfil its supervisory obligation, its supervisory powers, which is why these abuses could occur. Returning to the bill, the Hungarian Socialist Party will nevertheless support its adoption, because any bill that helps and provides compensation for small investors with their lost money will be supported. However, for those of you who may have this injustice, we will still have proposals, and if we are to make a proposal, I would ask my fellow Members, with respect, not to sabotage the subject series of these proposals, let us discuss it here before the Parliament, so that everyone who has been affected by these financial abuses will have access to their investments. There are tens of thousands of people involved. One more thing I would like to draw your attention to is that this happened at the financial fund called Hungaria, that a certain amount of money was transferred that disappeared in the ether. For example, there is no legislation now that solves their problem. [[18.50]] 1.8 billion forints were transferred to a bank account, and we received a notification from them, a letter, and it disappeared along the way, and they claim that this is not in their account. So these are exactly the mysterious cases, things that the government is still waiting to uncover, and here, in front of Parliament, we must find a solution to that. As I said, these questions could be resolved from hundreds of billions of forints at the disposal of the Hungarian National Bank, not from public money. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2015-04-13-230	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4347. The purpose of this bill is to address the situation of investors affected by the issuance of bonds by the Quaestor Group. Quaestor Group's illegal and partially unreal bond issuance has made the return on their previous investments uncertain for some 32 thousand investors. Several specific features are linked to the abuse committed by the Quaestor Group. The issue and the placing on the market of bonds could, on the one hand, only be financed for the benefit of the group of companies. On the other hand, this activity is similar in many respects to the collection of deposits. Customers placed money with members of the group for which they received securities. A significant part of these securities turned out to be fictitious, i.e. actual securities were not issued. However, a civil legal relationship was established between the company selling the bonds and the customer providing the cash. This partly showed the characteristics of the loan contract and partly the deposit contract, since the client gave the money to the relevant member of the group on interest. The creation of a separate law is also necessary because, given the large number of victims, individual claims would be extremely difficult. It would be difficult for the courts to overcome the challenge of litigation, or for victims to enforce their claims individually. Victims would also be disadvantaged as they would have to initiate civil proceedings to recover their investment or, as creditors, initiate winding-up or winding-up proceedings against members of the group, bearing all financial risks. The bill is therefore a [[Mrs. Loránt Violin, looking at the document in her hand, she missed a sentence!]] It provides for the establishment of a claim management and compensation fund, which meets the needs of customers to the extent laid down by law. This also avoids individual enforcement by customers. On the basis of the fund, legal claim enforcement guarantees the return of their investments to investors up to HUF 30 million, on the one hand, and on the other hand, with the compensation of the Investor Protection Fund. Please support the bill, KDNP supports it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-13-232	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2015-04-13-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As an introduction, let me say that in the general explanation read by my dear fellow Member, there are still two more sentences, which, unfortunately, we could not have heard from him. It's okay, we can read it from the bill. But his speech didn't surprise me at all. However, it was a surprise to us that the present representative of the government could not comment on the position of the government on this bill. I would have hoped that the Secretary of State would have shared his personal thoughts with us, perhaps from his own point of view, based on his own tastes, to show us what he thought of this bill. I think that this would have been a minimum of a few minutes to expect, since, after all, this is a bill discussed in an exceptional procedure, so obviously something has come up in you about what it is that should be said in this respect. But going back to the bill itself, on behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, we believe that this is a very narrow bill, so it narrows the framework that would normally be included in this big problem, but we support it, because we think that any small help for the victims is very useful and very important. But, as has already been said earlier, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, my dear fellow Member János Volner, tabled an amendment that the law should cover not only the victims of Quaestor, but also Buda-Cash and Hungária Zrt. the victims, too. We are very sorry that this was voted out by the government representatives at the TAB, because, we heard first, the justification was that the Quaestor issued fictitious bonds, while Buda-Cash had other problems. I think the fact that a brokerage company just steals the money, or the way they do it at Quaestor, they cheat first, and then steal the money, from the victim's point of view, it doesn't matter. That is why we believe that it is important to make a full settlement on this issue, not only in the sense that I will soon explain, but also in the sense that it should not only cover this one brokerage company, but all the brokerage companies that have fallen into it. A certain domino effect, which the Prime Minister also mentioned, is feared and regrettable, that this is not the last brokerage company that has tilted. It is feared that there will be more of this in the near future, which is why a more general legislative framework should be provided. The fact that 30 million would be the limit beyond the 6 million BEVA limit, which this fund adds as aid, or the overall amount of compensation would be 30 million, is to be supported by us. We believe that people who had the right to trust in the financial system, the supervision of the financial system, and even, where appropriate, the savings of their entire life's work have been entrusted to these brokerage companies, because in many cases they were also encouraged by the government to invest their money calmly, they deserve to have the government side with them and to have a bill with which they would receive the greatest possible compensation. At the same time, we believe that the circle covered by compensation is not fair, but according to the bill it covers only individuals, legal persons or other organisations, but we know from the law, and the bill also refers to this in a paragraph that this cannot basically extend to municipalities, budgetary bodies and a lot of other things. One of the biggest problems and the biggest question here is how the government is going to settle the local government's fate. Viktor Orbán, at the time when he had and ordered that the funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stationed at Quaestor and other ministries also be withdrawn from the brokerage company overnight, said that this was necessary because public money was deposited with this brokerage company. We believe that the money held by the municipalities is always public money. [[19.00]] So, for example, if we look at the case of Buda-Cash, they used banks belonging to Buda-Cash to run a current account there, to run liquid loans there, and so on, and this is how the municipalities have been damaged after all. These are also public funds that have been lost, and we believe that by not including this in the law, this is a big mistake on the part of the government. But while I am talking about public money, let us turn to the little thing that the Prime Minister has not added on any occasion that the money placed at Quaestor, for example, on behalf of the aforementioned Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was unfortunately illegal, since they were not on the legal path, i.e. through the Aht., that they kept savings in sovereign debt purchased through the Treasury, but were practically trading with the public funds. It's one of those issues you're gonna have to sort out sooner or later, we think it's the government. But there are many other questions to answer. And in this respect, I'll tell you honestly, in the end, the MSZP is also dirty, and it can't be done as if they hadn't made such mistakes, because in their time there was 300 billion forints of public money entrusted to such brokerage companies. But let's get back to the local government for a little while. János Lázár said in a statement that the municipalities would receive HUF 2 billion to pay aid and wages. Only Buda-Cash lost more than 3 billion forints to the municipalities, so if Hungária Zrt. and Quaestor are counted here, we are talking about many ten billion forints as losses, and compared to this 2 billion forints are little. If we were talking about wages and aid, why don't we talk about money spent on catering, social services, elderly care, culture, public education and education? How, when, and who will make up for it to these municipalities? Last time, I asked the Prime Minister a question exactly on this subject, and I asked him why, if the government was so generous in the case of Széchenyi Bank that he compensated individuals for HUF 6 billion by redistributing them from the budget in order to fill in the compensation of four individuals with Fidesz or close to Fidesz, why is this generosity not reflected in government actors now? Then I was told that there was a different responsibility because part of the Széchenyi Bank was state property. But I'll add: why, isn't the supervision of the National Bank a state responsibility to see how that works? What the PSF was or wasn't involved in these brokerage companies wasn't a matter of responsibility? Where is the state's responsibility, where does it appear? So I think that it would indeed be possible for the government to show generosity in this regard, and that the municipalities should be completely compensated, because, by the way, I feel and we believe that it is partly a substitute act that the government is putting before us now with this bill, a kind of fairy dust, so that we do not get answers to a lot of questions, not all of them are settled, even though we would still expect answers to a lot of questions, such as personal mergers, the operation of the Mészáros-Kiss Szilárd-Kiss Szilárd's wife-Sijjártó four; how much money was stationed at Quaestor by government politicians. Why don't you comment on this with Viktor Orbán at the head, why don't you tell us if you had any savings in Quaestor. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And so on, there is still a long way to go about this issue. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. We'd like an answer to that. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-234	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-13-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The relevance of the broker scandal series to LMP and its proposals were fundamentally influenced by two factors. One is that we think that small investors cannot be allowed to lose their savings, so they must be compensated. On the other hand, financial supervision has not done its job with sufficient rigour and efficiency, so we believe that the Hungarian National Bank should take responsibility. So these are the two factors that motivate the development of our proposal. The proposal submitted by Fidesz would create a compensation fund within the BEVA, but not applying its rules to date. The fund is managed by BEVA's organisation. Indemnification is covered by a complex bond issuance mechanism that is paid by the players in the sector. We believe that ultimately this burden will be transferred to the population. The LMP has several fundamental problems with the proposal. One is the question of protection and responsibility, and the other is the responsibility of the Fidesz government and its denial in the bill. According to the LMP, due to serious failures of financial supervision, broker scandals could occur. Therefore, the compensation should be covered primarily by the institution responsible for the financial system, the Hungarian National Bank. Today, the LMP also submitted an amendment to the bill, and in this we recommend that the financial cover be covered not only in the form of a loan, from the profits realised by the MNB at the time of the exchange of currency. We have found that, in the context of the Social Responsibility Programme announced by the MNB, the MNB has so far not taken on much social responsibility, but they have bought luxury properties and spent money on their foundations. This is now an opportunity for the MNB leaders to actually take responsibility. The other issue is the question of government responsibility, which the Fidesz government will remove from itself. We don't think there's any way around this anymore. Recently, LMP submitted a draft parliamentary decision to set up a committee of inquiry to examine the state relations between investment and service brokers between 1997 and 2015, the effectiveness of their financial supervision, the shortcomings in the legislative environment and the situation of national assets with investment service providers during the investigation period. We believe that, without such a comprehensive investigation, it is not possible to really move forward, so it is clear now that the victims must be compensated, but if the proposal to improve the financial sector is not made on the basis of a thorough examination, then these falls will occur again and again. Today, on a proposal from Fidesz, the Committee on Budgets adopted a subcommittee, which, we believe, is a narrowing of the problem, because it only proposed that it examine and propose government abuses in the context of brokerage companies. We did not support this restricted subcommittee. We believe that it is not possible to go without saying that the scandals, in addition to possible legislative shortcomings, were largely caused by the professionally inadequate and politically influenced activities of financial supervision. Personal and so-called professional relations between the government and the leadership of Quaestor make it clear that the illegal and irresponsible operation of the brokerage company has been facilitated by political support. Not only did the supervision look the other way in the bond issue, when a beginner financial officer could see from the data that this pilot game was going to fail, but the government made Quaestor the economic support of the eastern opening adventurer, and agreed with him the operation of the Moscow and Istanbul trading houses. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Agriculture not only carried the money to Quaestor by wheelbarrow but also by truck, they performed together at stadium and visa center openings. Quasi government guarantee must have been felt by the person who invested here behind the company. This is a very important point. That is, the government actively assisted in the scam of bondholders. Therefore, both financial supervision and responsible politicians should be good for their private assets, but there is not a single word about this in the bill. [[19.10]] This bill is a country without consequences, a symbol of irresponsibleness. In addition to all this, it is almost a matter of detail that this bill is also a hasty, poorly put change, which can only partially address the problem. Not all victims are compensated, only certain bondholders, who are issued by Quaestor Financial Hrurira and Quaestor Securities Ltd. they bought a bond sold by the company. At the same time, there are those who bought bonds through other companies of the group, or who did not have bonds, but had shares, units or other securities from Quaestor. Together, they can be twice as many as the 32,000 bondholders, i.e. the Fidesz government wants to exclude two thirds of the victims from the compensation. To sum up, one of the elements of our proposal is that the Hungarian National Bank should ensure financial coverage not only in the form of a loan, from its profits on foreign exchange exchanges, and the other key point is that, after a comprehensive examination, the deep, deeper problems of the financial sector need to be corrected and the financial supervision should be tightened up and its operation made more efficient. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-13-236	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Vejkey asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it was the better Member who was trying to make it look like the government was not dealing with the municipalities affected by the brokerage scandal. This appearance is false, fellow Members. On the other hand, the reality is that within 7-10 days the municipalities will receive the amount that caused their damage by the broker scandal. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: That's not true! You won't get a tenth of it!]] In addition to the above, a working group will be set up, and the task force, ladies and gentlemen, will call for... - that the municipalities who have also suffered damage to the DRB and the other brokerage company will also be assessed by the government, and on this basis they will also receive it. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: There's nothing to appreciate! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-13-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech, I give the floor.
u2015-04-13-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to say one thought beyond what my fellow Member has already said. [[György Szilágyi: It would be gallant if we could answer.]] This is that you should not have forgotten the original sin, citing a quotation mark, when the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions was quasi-defeated, practically the professionals who could have done it, couldn't have done it, were assigned to Matolcsy, to the Hungarian National Bank, and we can see where the story has come from. [[György Szilágyi: Mr Vejkey, it would be possible for the gallant to answer. The president's ringing the bell.]] So, in that sense, it's safe to stand. I would also add that this position should not happen with the use of public funds, should it not, as has been said, the resources within the framework of the Hungarian National Bank, I will not open the details, and you know it. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: What kind of money is that? Not public money?]] Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak in the remaining time frame. [[György Szilágyi: We would speak if we had time. Nándor Gúr: Need some time?]] Congressman, I don't recall speaking to you, so I'd like to ask you to refrain. Dear Parliament, As no other speakers have made themselves known, the consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Congressman Tuzson Bence if he wishes to reply as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Congressman, we have a 14-minute window.
u2015-04-13-241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to start by saying that we should look back a little bit and look at it, since we are already here, in this debate, what has led us to believe that this situation could have developed at all. There is a philosophical or, if you like, a worldview difference between us and our ancestors in terms of how we relate to the financial system. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin, to Csaba Meg Tarsoly.]] While, in the period 2002-2010, the general principle may have been to loosen up the control of the financial system on the basis of a poorly understood neoliberal view, state guarantees should be removed behind it, including in terms of lending practice and in terms of this type of institution, since there was a period when there was no control at all between the institutions, and then, under pressure from the IMF, a much more rare control period of five years was introduced in 2009. So there was such a process, and we ended this process from 2010. Our position in this regard was to establish a much stronger control system for the rest of the financial system, such as the credit system. The credit system should also be redesigned, foreign exchange loans removed and the process redirected to controlled, well-functioning forint lending based on the fair banking system. That's the truth of brokerage companies, investment companies. The restructuring of the control system took place 16 months ago when the National Bank received this power. The reason for this is that such a strong supervision can be established, that the information that is available behind the National Bank should be linked to each other, and not that what has happened before is that only from paper can these control bodies, so the supervision itself, but from a more detailed audit, on the basis of information, whether on-the-spot investigations or generated data, be able to control these brokerage companies. We see that this system has worked effectively, because after 16 months of operation it has been able to detect decades of abuse. So I stress that we are talking about decades of abuse in the case of Quaestor, which was also a type of abuse. The money of the Hungarian National Bank is part of the public wealth. A misunderstanding, if you just think that the Hungarian National Bank might take money from the tree, is part of the public fortune. In the event that we involve the Hungarian National Bank in the process of compensation, we all, all Hungarians, are affected by this indemnification process, as we pay the various victims with this money. This is why such a proposal is wrong, and it is therefore a good proposal that provides for an advance for market players who can subsequently, as they can wait, enforce their claims against those who have otherwise caused harm at the end of a possible civil or criminal proceeding. It is also an important question that we should not mix apples with pears, we are talking about various broker scandals, the Buda-Cash case is different, and the Quaestor case is different. In the Quaestor case, the own bond was a particularly serious abuse in this regard, since it was not a matter of selling something of value, but of creating something of their own, which was sold in a much larger proportion than was a real cover, and thus removing the cover from the bonds that were otherwise available. Therefore, this is special and very difficult to squeeze into the current compensation scheme, because the current compensation scheme, such as the BEVA compensation system, solves a number of problems, and together with the OBA - for example, in the case of Buda-Cash - bank victims can be compensated up to HUF 30 million, the National Deposit Insurance Fund, which has happened in a large part of the cases, as we know that the vast majority of the victims, the large majority of about 110 thousand people, were bank victims in this case, and the National Deposit Insurance Fund was able to stand up for this. The other issue is BEVA, the Investor Protection Fund, which also started to work and worked well for Quaestor, but in this case the issue is quite different. The problem here is not that, let's say, the Quaestor cannot account for foreign shares, but cannot account for the securities issued falsely by the Quaestor himself, and this is a special case, and should be dealt with accordingly, so it is specific and therefore requires a specific solution, and this fund offers this solution. However, it should also be pointed out how this solution works, since it is not about whether public money is involved or whether we create public wealth in this company or in this fund, but about the service providers who carry out this activity, advance this, and the amounts granted in the course of compensation, in the course of the legal proceedings, can flow back to these companies. People can't wait, they've been fooled, these big companies who can wait are worth considering this proposal, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[19.20]]
u2015-04-13-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on the second day of our meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports and a summary amendment proposal for a proposal on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. The submission was made in T/3783. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/3783/61. and T/3783/62. was given to them. Report by the Committee on Enterprise Development as a committee on the subject of the debate on the detailed debate T/3783/58. was given to them. T/3783/64. The summary report is available on the website at number T/3783/65. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total time frame of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-04-13-243	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee has discussed T/3783 at two readings. The draft law on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies submitted by the Committee on 9 April presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 26 yes and 7 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains, on the one hand, the motion of the Legislative Committee on the need for a second reading. I believe that the proposal adopted by the Legislative Committee will reassure everyone about the economic conflicts of interest for members of professional staff. The legislation specifies which cases are subject to notification or authorisation and which activities are already excluded from the scope of the law. In addition, the Legislative Committee supported most of the amendments made by the Defence and Police Committee, and in 14 cases it clarified them with its own motion, so it did not change its content. Thanks to the five-party dialogue following the general debate, I trust that, together with the amendments, we will be able to adopt a bill acceptable to everyone, but most of all a bill of law enforcement, which underpins their career model. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-244	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2015-04-13-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the last TAB meeting, we witnessed a rather interesting interplay, when the amendment proposed by the Ministry of Interior last Thursday morning was discovered that the first of the four or five points of the TAB meeting was not a technical amendment, as they claimed, but rather, rather than a proposal dealing with a conflict of coherence or other constitutional problem at the last moment, they wanted to make a meaningful, real change behind a simple proposal that seemed technical, rewriting a numbering, otherwise, in a way that is not apparent from the justification, to be said, to pass through the committee. This amendment was received by the committee on Wednesday evening, as far as we know, and was already discussed on Thursday morning. The point of the amending proposal would have been to loosen up the economic conflicts of interest of law enforcement agencies in the future, and according to the rules, it would have only been a requirement for law enforcement officials to become directors, board members or supervisory board members in certain companies, in any company. The thing is nonsense - and I said it at the committee meeting, which, surprisingly, has touched the majority of the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP there, and in this case, in fact, they voted against the BM, and the nonsense of the matter is best shown by the fact that if the rule were adopted, or if this rule were in force today, then the National Bureau of Investigation, which is conducting the investigation, could be the head of Quaestor Zrt. President of the Board of Directors, which is a completely unacceptable direction, goes against what Fidesz previously represented. To the satisfaction of this, at the end of an approximately an hour's debate - I repeat, this should be their honour - the committee defeated this proposal against BM with 32 yeses and 1 abstention. But why is this proposal even more interesting? The reason why this proposal is very interesting is that on Wednesday at 11 a.m. I submitted an interpellation on which the Secretary of State has given a rather ridiculous answer today, which clearly shows that this conflict of interest rule, which still exists today, has been violated for years by the entire top staff of disaster protection under the Ministry of Interior, along with György Bakondi and his intended successor, as it is. For nearly four years, they have been head of law enforcement as Chairman of the Board of Directors, Board of Directors and Supervisory Board of the Company, and they have been charging for more than four years, which is not too many, but at the same time in principle, an interesting question is that there is also a fee for respect in this case. I submitted this interpellation on Wednesday at 11 a.m., and see a miracle, Thursday morning as a self-religion, the Ministry of the Interior's amendment proposes that this be legal in the future, confirming that this has been illegal in recent years, and still is. In the Defence and Police Committee, there was a long debate on conflicts of interest, and Lajos Kósa himself, the Fidesz chairman of the committee, strongly advocated that no relaxation could be imagined, and even in his view would be justified further tightening up, and perhaps not only the staff of the police and, in particular, police and investigation authorities should be excluded from this, as is the current law, but also in a wider section, as a detective may be in a position to investigate a company that may be specifically a senior official, board or supervisory board member. The end result was that the Defence Committee, by a majority, decided to maintain the current rules, otherwise strict in this respect. The other proposals sent by BM were indeed technical proposals. As for the merit of the law, the 30 percent wage increase is now very much due to the stock, so we obviously support it, and it will also be seen in our vote. It should also be said that BM discussed this bill in a two-round five-party consultation and, in practice, in a six-and-a-half-hour, detailed debate, which could be called professional, within the framework of the Defence Committee, in a fair trial compared to the current government. Of the 28 amendments proposed by the MSZP, the BM accepted about a dozen, either in text or in transcription, but in content. However, there are at least four principle questions left to say that we are voting in favour of the law because of the wage increase, but this is not our law of service, we wouldn't do that, and we wouldn't be able to give our names to these parts. One is that trade union licenses continue to be eradicated from the area of law enforcement, making trade unions virtually impossible from all financial and resource sides. The second is that the pension system is still not published in the Service Act. We find this completely wrong and harmful. The third is that since 1 January 2012, since the termination of the service pension system, people who have had to be discharged for health, physical or psychological reasons - even if they have served several decades or thirty years - have been put on the street practically from one moment to the next - are not subject to any system of care today, which is also due to the abolition of the service pension system from one moment to the next. [[19.30]] This is what we have proposed to provide for these people for a transitional period until the new insurance system, as announced by the government itself, is established. If that happens, the government itself will admit that something is needed. In the end, it's a matter of principle. The system of command control, which, as they say, further strengthens the Soviet-type Hungarian police, in which kicking out without justification applies not only to the average executive stock, but also to the leadership circle, which is considered to be completely harmful and flawed; one of the biggest problems of Hungarian law enforcement is one of its tragedies and standards. So we can't call it our own law of service, but we're gonna support it because of the salary increase. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-13-246	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, whether he wishes to speak to his representative now or later. [[For signal:]] Mr State Secretary points out that he wishes to speak at a later stage in the debate on the agenda. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur for the designated Defence and Police Committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 25 March 2015, the Defence and Police Committee held a detailed debate on the bill as a designated committee. As Mr Bellozó said, the committee spent more than six hours on this item at the meeting, so it discussed it in detail. In addition to its own intention to amend, the Committee adopted a proposal for an amendment to the opposition, but accepted it in a different form and content, and adopted, above all, four amendments by the opposition and submitted a proposal for a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-13-248	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, the speeches made in writing will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2015-04-13-249	Dear House, Dear Parliament, A long-awaited bill has been tabled by the Minister of the Interior. No major wage increases have been made to professional law enforcement personnel since 2000. Our government considered it one of the priorities of the years following the 2010 elections to create a state that serves the interests of the common good, the nation and the community instead of the individual. This may be based on a legal order based on solid public law, which is provided by the Fundamental Law. The Fundamental Law also settled, inter alia, the constitutional situation and the fundamental rules governing the operation of law enforcement bodies. It can therefore be said that the organisational and institutional side of law enforcement has already been established, and it is the task of this government cycle to establish a staff and public service system for the effective functioning of the State Organisation and to ensure the conditions for its systematic operation. The aim of the bill is to stabilise the state of the public law enforcement staff by drawing up a long-term and predictable course of life and to give them the recognition they deserve. It is clear to everyone that since the entry into force of the Law currently governing the service of law enforcement personnel, the Law on the Service relationship of Professional Members of Armed Bodies adopted in 1996, 86 amendments have affected the structure and internal coherence of the law. In particular, significant changes to government decisions over the last four years have changed this. This certainly justified the development of a new bill by the Ministry of the Interior. The bill relies on the structure and concept of the former law, the legal institutions resulting from the specific nature of the professional service, but it also seeks to create a career model for law enforcement workers with a new approach, structural and substantive innovations. The bill offers career opportunities that in future professional staff in this area will be valued in all respects. It is important to note that, before preparing the bill, in August 2014, a public opinion poll was carried out by the Ministry of Interior, for which 18,000 replies were received. The bill settles the legal status of 64 000 law enforcement agencies through the new regulation; as the public opinion poll has shown, the most important element of this is the multi-stage wage development of the staff members. Hungary's central budget for 2015 includes expenditure related to the implementation of the career system, so it can be seen that our government is committed to the financial recognition of its members. Here the wage increase is made in several steps, with a 30 percent wage increase in the first year for those who perform the basic tasks. The new remuneration system aims to recognise the value of jobs, service experience and performance at the same time. Furthermore, it cannot be held that the current salary system employs about 30 different allowances. This is also rationalised by the law, and would therefore consist of a salary, a replacement service and a replacement job. Four types of allowances will be possible in line with the special circumstances of the service. The bill includes the establishment of a relatively closed system of advancement, which simultaneously ensures vertical and horizontal advancement by recognising and matching the experience gained in the event of internal progress. Progress is now subject to specific conditions, which are adapted to the increase in salaries. It is important to see here that the career correction is intended to ensure interoperability for the members of the stock. These measures will ensure that the creation of a career path guarantees an attractive and stimulating system of salaries and careers for staff members. The bill has taken into account the proposals of the stock and interest representatives, so it can be said that a bill has been submitted to Parliament in the interest of the law enforcement staff. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-13-250	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group.
u2015-04-13-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then let's start here at the end. I was rather shocked to hear the statement made by my fellow Member Iron, which was obviously written to him, so that, in the light of the proposals made by the advocacy organisations, we would allegedly adopt that law. I would like to inform my fellow Member Vas that it would be a bit of a strong wording that, in the light of the proposals of the advocacy organisations, we have this law, when, among other things, existing trade unions and those operating in recent decades will be embezzled from day to day, to end this bill; when the opposition will otherwise be able to act as a trade union in such a way or in such a way as to be clearly indicated by all its parties and factions that trade unions will not be granted a working time discount, and the only sphere of life in which they cannot hold and carry out trade union activities in the existing state ownership is that they do not guarantee the infrastructure and legal conditions of the most basic work in Hungarian. As a compromise proposal, we did not ask you at the end to restore the trade union licenses that were abolished in 2011, which, by the way, worked throughout the previous governments, but we only asked you to grant at least as many trade union rights in this area as you have accepted to trade unions under the current Labour Code. [[19.40]] You said no to that. They also said no when they themselves contradicted this law, that the head of the Hungarian Law Enforcement Faculty cannot be a trade union official, which is nonsense alone, and I think they will have a right to attack it in international forums or in the Hungarian Constitutional Court. But it is also nonsense because, specifically, two weeks ago in this Parliament, you voted in favour of the amendment tabled by your judicial wallet. In the case of the Hungarian government staff, the same conflict of interest rule has been abolished by you, saying that you accept the arguments of the trade unions, and otherwise there is no real reason for this conflict of interest. They have nothing to say, because their arguments were that the Hungarian Law Enforcement Faculty is a professional organization and not an advocacy organization. I've always asked the secretary of state who's here to tell me why someone doing an advocacy job would logically exclude you from understanding the profession you're doing. Obviously, they couldn't give me that answer. It is quite clear that their stubborn insistence and the violence of the Ministry of the Interior on this subject is some sort of personal vendetta, a personal issue that you are seeking revenge on the leaders of the trade unions working in the field of police and internal affairs. Unfortunately, there is nothing new about it, since they have done so in recent years. The speaker of the Fidesz says he wants to stabilize the file. You know, my fellow Member, a 30-percent wage increase is indeed a good thing for this stock, but wages in a job, not only in law enforcement, but in particular, that is only one part of the degree of turnover and emigration. There are such concepts, you know, professional recognition, there are such concepts that job conditions, there are such concepts that work culture, and then, when a flock has to live in fear and existential fear, even if with higher pay, it always comes at the expense of efficiency and professionalism, and in any case, the staff in there may be happy to acknowledge their salary at the end of the month, but from 1st to 31st. And in a workplace where, according to their current legislation, the commander continues to be the commander of the law, neither the security of Hungarian citizens nor the rule of law will be guaranteed. Today, once again, both the executive staff and the command staff can be removed virtually at any time without justification, and they know it. Therefore, if they are instructed, either against the law, specifically against the law, or even against a criminal offence - horribile dictu, then it is very, very rare to see anyone going against it. And I'm going to give you a concrete example, the specific example that BM has refused to investigate since then, how the invasion of civil society organisations took place, on which the court has finally ruled that it was illegal. To this day, there is no answer: who gave the order, who carried out the order? And the present Hst. he did not indicate to his commander in writing or orally that he had received an illegal order, and otherwise he would have had a signaling signal for his execution. There's no responsibility, there's no warrant, everything's fine. Unfortunately, these examples could be mentioned for a long time in the current operation, but the most important problem is that in such an atmosphere, in addition to such a work culture, this takes out professionalism, integrity and legal implementation in a systematic manner, and therefore it is very far from what we call modern law enforcement and effective law enforcement in Europe today. The second question is that it is valued in all respects. Here I have just indicated what the trade unions will do. It is an estimated stock that has been taken away from the service pension from one minute to the next, including the existing ones, and they have no hope until Fidesz is on the government to get it back at any level. What I have just mentioned is also an appreciation that, since 1 January 2012, thousands of years of work, after service, people can be put on the street if they get sick, hurt or physically or otherwise become unfit for service. And one of our most important questions of principle, which concern the staff, is that the passage that remains in the law, which is a fundamental constitutional guarantee, is clearly separated by law from the investigative authority by certain intelligence and legal backgrounds, followed by the prosecution and, obviously, by the independent court, which you have overwritten two years ago by a series of amendments, namely, the use of the National Defence Service's secret service staff in the same case for investigative work in the prosecution's office. And, ladies and gentlemen, use it. There were several cases, including at a closed meeting of the National Security Committee, that we were specifically familiar with a case that they would not be surprised or surprised at, in a case involving opposition politicians, that people who were listening to secret services were personally transferred to the prosecution, and that, later in the investigation, they carried out investigative activities, including interrogation. Nonsense, amazing, and overrides any constitutional guarantees that are not accidentally entered into the law of two thirds of the police, or the law of national security, these powers must be clearly separated, no matter what, they cannot and cannot and cannot be tolerated, and cannot remain without consequences, to use these instruments for political purposes, abusively. Our special favourite in the law is the provision that the new service career model will be tied to the post. In this respect, for example, the generals, like everyone else, if they're placed in a different position, they'll be followed by their rank. This is particularly interesting for the general staff, appointed by the President of the Republic, and it is his formal decision to appoint and whom he does not appoint, it was simply written in the law that the President of the Republic would withdraw the appointment of General. To be clear, if someone from the county commissioner becomes, say, a city captain after the end of five years, then the President of the Republic should take away his appointment as a general and deprive him of it. It will bring a very interesting situation, if the President of the Republic will say no at this time, then I do not know how the law will be implemented, but it can also be seen from this point of view that this part was certainly unthinkable. Finally, we would also like to clarify once again here in Parliament: we are voting for the two-thirds rule, because it is a formal issue and we do not wish to give rise to the possibility that the increase in wages will be abolished later. The bill will be very limited to wage increases. The questions of principle I have told you, I think that a next, professionally decent government will and will have to resolve them. This police force must break away from this command control, otherwise from the minister or even from the prime minister to the executive staff, from three phones which can be used abusively, and the profession and respect for the law must be the true standard in the whole area of law enforcement. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-04-13-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-04-13-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to clarify that the LMP Group will vote in favour of the bill, essentially because law enforcement workers have been waiting for wage development for many years. Today, Hungary's biggest problem is workers' poverty, and within the public sector, the share of people living in income poverty is 30%. In this situation, whether a massive salary development takes place in a sector of the public sector, I think that this should be welcomed in itself. Another issue is that this stipend development does not extend inexplicably to everyone who works in law enforcement, because those who do not work in Hst. they fall within the scope of this Regulation, public servants, they will not receive this salary improvement; although, if their expertise is lacking, they may also be very serious public security problems. Dear Parliament, In addition to the fact that we will vote in favour of this bill because of wage development, I have to say that Hungary has not yet had and will not have a law of state service in the future. [[19.50]] Neither was the law of 96, nor was it. There are a few points to this bill, which I think is worthy of the Constitutional Court, because the law enforcement staff, the professional staff, are violating the freedom of expression and the right of assembly to an extent that cannot simply be constitutionally supported. Note that this was no different than the.96 service bill. Hungary needs a law on the service of the rule of law. And, of course, it should also be said that, while, of course, we recognise that the government has conducted fair consultations with opposition parties, this cannot be fully said in the case of trade unions. In addition, it is a law that maintains the restriction of the freedom of organisation, trying to prevent the operation of trade unions in a rather petty way. I am thinking, for example, of why, for example, the trade union should not be given a room in the employer's premises. I have also said in the general debate that trade unions in the public sector have a special role to play in Hungary. We understand that, after the developments in recent years, there is a fear in the management of the internal affairs portfolio that trade unions might take a party policy course, and I believe that other legal instruments are available in relation to the harvesting of party politics. This in itself is not an argument to restrict the freedom of organisation, especially if today, in Hungary, workers' standing is in many cases only the trade unions of the public sector. Our further critical point is, of course, that the problem of ensuring a secure job for professionals returning from the plant has not been resolved. We have said in the general debate - and unfortunately there has not been any progress in this - that it is unacceptable that the replacement of workers who have been permanently eliminated, i.e. workers who are in need, cannot be replaced or paid overtime at present. Right now, there are 800 professional women. So at least that many people do their job without compensation. We propose that if a professional returning from a child does not accept a position lower than the previous one, his/her service relationship should not be terminated by acquittal. At present, the bill contains something else. We have said in the general debate that there is an enormous need for many women to take on the task of law enforcement. The current legislation prevents this, at least not allowing a large number of mothers with small children to try to work in law enforcement organisations. We are attempting to bring our constitutional objections to the Constitutional Court, and we continue to believe that law enforcement workers have the same right to freedom of organisation as all other workers in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-254	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no further comments have been made on the agenda, the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-13-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank both the Legislative Committee and the Defence and Police Committee for discussing the 55 amendments tabled to the bill. I would like to thank the Members who have spoken in the debate for their support. I would like to respond to some comments. I would like to say that, in addition to technical and linguistic changes, the legislative proposal of the Legislative Committee amends the bill substantially on several points. I highlight the most important of these substantive changes. In addition to the professional staff of law enforcement agencies, they are members of the Hungarian Law Orders Faculty. The bill proposed that, in the future, the membership of the public body should be constituted only by professional staff, but this change will not take place from July 2015. In view of the fact that the law enforcement agencies will continue to be public employees, it is therefore appropriate that the Hungarian Law Enforcement Faculty continue to provide professional representation of civil servants. Accordingly, the summarised amendment will lead to the necessary changes to the bill. As a result of the five-party negotiations, a proposal to reduce the requirement for language examination as a condition for official classification has been formulated. According to this, a public language examination of any language will be sufficient to complete such positions. During the general discussion of the bill, a number of criticisms were given to the rule that a transfer between departments would not require the consent of a member of the professional staff if the new place of service could be reached by public transport within an hour and a half from the place of residence. The summarised amendment reduces this rule to the extent that for members of professional staff who raise children under the age of 10, the duration of the journey shall not exceed one hour. The regulation of employment in the lightened service is also amended, according to which employment in the lightened service will be mandatory on the basis of a professional application of the conditions, either in a position available to a law enforcement body or in a ministry managed by the Minister for Law Enforcement. On the basis of what has been said in the general debate and in the five-party consultation, the proposal sets out the means to be used for technical control. Furthermore, it is noted that technical checks may be carried out only during the performance of the service, in order to verify compliance with the rules governing the performance of the service. The summarised amendment proposes to set the transitional period until 31 December 2018 for compensation for the over-service as long as it is possible to compensate for the over-service in cash. It also supports the intention of several of its representatives to decide, during this transitional period, that a member of a professional staff may request, in free time or in money, to redeem the over-service performed. The Government supports all the amendments contained in the legislative committee's summarised amendment. Dear Parliament, In addition, I would like to thank Mr Vas Imre, who, on behalf of Fidesz, supported the bill, the supporting comment. I would also like to thank Mr Tamás Harangozó, who supported the proposal on behalf of the MSZP fraction. I would like to make his comment clear, and he said that he supported the proposal because of the 30 percent wage increase. It's not 30 percent, it's 50 percent. From 1 July 2015 to 30 per cent and until 1 January 2019, a further 5-5 per year, with a total salary increase of 50 per cent, taking into account the 30 per cent. For the sake of peace and for the sake of agreement and common interests, the aim of strengthening the stock with this law is to help keep it on track, to appreciate the service that the Hungarian people are doing in the interests of the country, and I would not now touch on the cornered wordings of the representative, what he said about living the stock in fear. I don't think he believes it himself. I don't want to just disprove these exaggerations, I don't want to analyze them in detail, but I don't think they're justified. As to Mr András Schiffer's contribution, I would like to thank Mr Group leader for his support on behalf of the LMP. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the general debate, I have responded to the concern that the honourable Member has reiterated here once again that the return of those in need has not been assured. It is precisely the legislation that sets out the conditions that allow them, since they do not fill these places by law with permanent mandates, precisely so that mothers can return from the child, because the service expects these employees to return, whom we are counting on, and we are pleased that they are increasingly present in the professional population. [[20.00]] I would like to say something else about what Congressman Bellozó said. He said we'd vote for a raise, but it's not our law of service. Mr President, I think you have said this correctly, but I would like to say that, in my view, this law of service, which I hope the House will adopt and support tomorrow with its vote, is not a law of service for either party. This is Hungary's law of service, this is the law of the service of Hungarian professional staff, because it is in the public interest to provide this very important public service, this service without any party political influence, for the sake of Hungary, for the sake of Hungary, for the benefit of the Hungarian people. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you once again, both in the general debate and here, for the contributions made in the detailed debate, for the support, and I would like to point out that the Ministry of Interior's endeavour was to adopt the best service law possible, which is why there was a two-pronged five-party consultation, prior to this consultation with the social, interest representation bodies, the Police Faculty, because I think it is in the public interest, for all of us, to adopt the best service law. In the hope of this, I would like to thank you once again and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-256	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place on the second day of our meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2000 XLII on water transport. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The submission is T/4016. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed debate T/4016/2. was given to them. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr. Secretary of State Tasó as rapporteur [[Dr. András Schiffer: Let's hear it! László Tasó exhorting no: Thank you very much.]] Whether you wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. The Secretary of State indicates that he intends to join the debate at a later stage. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, and the first to speak is Mr Pál Völner, Member of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, XLII 2000 on water transport. T/4016. There is a bill before us. Since no amendments were tabled, we are therefore only discussing the Commission report, which essentially only includes that the proposal complies with the House Rule 44 of the Decision. Paragraph 1 (), i.e. it complies with the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, fits into the whole legal system, complies with international and European Union law, and complies with the professional requirements of the legislation. However, let me remind you of the main elements of the bill. The European Commission has launched infringement proceedings against our country due to the lack of transposition of Directive 2012/35/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 amending Directive 2008/106/EC on the minimum level of training of seafarers. A 2014/0462. XLII 2000 on water transport is necessary in order to conclude the infringement procedure launched as soon as possible. Amendment of law for harmonisation purposes. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In order to fully transpose the Directive, each Member State should set up a system of institutions for the examination of the fitness of seafarers, in which seafarers are examined by a recognised doctor and registered by the maritime authority. In Hungary, the provisions of Article 21/2002 concerning the conditions and procedures for the inspection of ship's medical fitness are laid down. Joint regulation GKM-ESzCsM regulates, in part compatible with the Directive, the health fitness assessment of seafarers. However, it is necessary to amend the Regulation in the case of the requirements for seafarers' doctors, taking into account that, according to the international requirements to be implemented by the Directive, only doctors registered by the shipping authority may be entitled to inspect seafarers. Since the ship's authority has a public record of doctors examining shippers and seafarers, an official register of qualified doctors should be provided for by law to amend the Water Transport Act. On the one hand, the amendment of the special legislative provisions on the working time of the staff of the floating facility includes in the Water Transport Act international contracts laying down provisions on special work and rest periods and, on the other hand, amends, in accordance with the Directive, the provision that the collective agreement may determine the combined amount of daily and weekly rest periods for at least 70 hours. Dear House, In view of the above, I would like to ask you to support the Commission report and the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Anita Heringes, the Hungarian Socialist Party, among the speakers who have been announced.
u2015-04-13-259	Thank you very much for the floor. Nor can we go along with the fact that the amendment is now being negotiated because the government has failed again, could not or did not want to comply with the requirements of international conventions. As you can see, the government has acted again at the expense of workers and, unfortunately, infringement proceedings have been reopened against Hungary. In order to fully transpose the Directive, each Member State must set up an institution for the examination of the fitness of seafarers, in which seafarers are examined by an approved doctor and registered by the maritime authority - this task is now being dealt with in an ex post and delayed manner. Overall, it can be said that the draft legislation has been drawn up and that it can be supported, since it will, on the one hand, terminate an infringement procedure against Hungary and, on the other hand, contain amendments that will improve the working conditions of workers, and therefore the MSZP fraction will support the proposal. Thank you. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-13-260	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2015-04-13-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would ask you to inform your fellow State Secretary that we will have our only constructive, supportive contribution in the course of this day, and that they will present it tonight. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] 'Cause it's gonna be harder to give you the rest of the night. Overall, we have examined this draft legislation, and we have not found any political mines in it, and we felt that it was a take-over to help water transport, which could be an overall forward-looking one, and that is why we can support the legislation. At the same time, we would like to ask the Secretary of State that we would very much like to see the experience of applying the Water Transport Act in Hungary within the framework of Parliament, whether in committee work or elsewhere, because in many cases, with the appearance of the wealth-making layer, this is most typically present at Lake Tisza, there have been traffic anomalies, whether with jet-ski or with the transport of various speed craft, which in many cases endanger the right of other individuals operating on water to a healthy environment, endangering their right to rest. It would therefore be good if we could address the practical problems of applying this legislation beyond obligations. And I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that, in the official context of water transport, we also hear a lot of times that improving working conditions and more existential respect for workers are timely, there are a lot of committed people who are very committed to water transport, working on these authorities. It would be good for the government to deal with this, and the next thing you know, we could exchange ideas about them here in Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[20.10]]
u2015-04-13-262	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Laszlo Tasó, State Secretary, if he wishes to reply.
u2015-04-13-263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Presents, I would like to thank you first of all for the comments and naturally ask you to support the proposal with your vote tomorrow, and I would also ask that Congressman Sallai R. Benedek speak and signal to me, that we are very happy to debate and speak together about what he has raised. It's very topical topics, by the way, and I'm telling you that we're dealing with it, we've already got our competent department working on it, but it's a good thing you did, because it could happen sooner than we thought. Thank you with all due respect, and once again, it was really nice to hear the constructive, supportive contributions. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-04-13-264	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place on the second day of our meeting. The Commission's reports on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2013 are now under discussion. Opinion of the Judicial Committee on its own motion H/3779. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Judicial Committee as designated committee on a detailed debate H/3779/4. they have been granted a serial number. Report by the Committee for Sustainable Development on the detailed debate on the subject of the debate H/3779/2. in order number H/3779/3, the report by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, on the detailed debate received on a serial number. I ask if the rapporteur, György Rubovszky, wishes to speak on behalf of the Judicial Committee. [[Dr. György Rubovszky says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No, thank you.]] They're signaling no. Dear Parliament, The rapporteur for the designated Judicial Committee therefore does not speak. Then I will give the floor to Mrs Giricz Vera Ruszin, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who will present the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translate it himself. You have the floor.
u2015-04-13-265	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Честованый пан Предс Честован... парламентар... Дякувуза можность выступити на языкови Александра Духновича- русинського просватителя, день родженя котрого праздну Thank you very much for welcoming you to the language of Father Ruthenian Enlightenment, Duchnovich Alexander, whose birthday is celebrated by our community at the end of April. At the meeting of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 16 March 2015, the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 22. B/101. A report and a resolution have been drawn up on it. Like the Judicial Committee, the Committee supports the adoption in plenary of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates. The structure of the report also confirms that the duties of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights are complex, embracing all areas of social life that will be affected. The 2011 CXI on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Law No. 1 According to paragraph 2 of Section XXVII of the Fundamental Law, the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights shall, among other things, pay particular attention to the activities of the Fundamental Law. For the protection of the rights of nationality set out in Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The legislation provides guarantees to ensure this in several places, including the 40th. § 2 requires the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights to inform Parliament in the annual report of his activities in the protection of fundamental rights, presenting in a separate chapter his steps towards the enforcement of national rights. Protection of nationality rights is a fundamental task in the Ombudsman's work, as its activities also affect other areas of protection in the current structure. The report shows that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has fulfilled his legal protection tasks, in addition to the overall monitoring of the area of nationality, by carrying out ex officio proceedings. We can assess the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in the area of changes in legislation and its results as being good. We agree with the Ombudsman's view that the abolition of the right of agreement relating to the approval of public education institutions and their pedagogical programmes was not justified. In connection with the operation of the system of minority self-governments, we share the Ombudsman's statement that local government rights can actually be exercised if the State ensures the functioning of organisational, functional and budgetary autonomy with institutional guarantees. We note that in practice the principle of public law does not apply that local government and municipal minority self-government appear as equal partners. We agree with the Ombudsman's findings on the ex post use of census data. We continue to argue that the basis for the election of national authorities should be belonging to the non-binding nationality during the census. We agree that national self-government must also provide economic funds. As a joint opinion, the future of nationality depends on the effectiveness of national education. However, ethnic language rights continue to be very mixed in public life. The protection of nationality rights cannot be imagined without appropriate legal institutions. According to the Fundamental Law, the Deputy Commissioner for National Rights is responsible for protecting the rights of nationalities living in Hungary. In addition to the provisions of Article 30 of the Fundamental Law, in addition to the provisions of the Act on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the additional detailed rules, the leeway of the Deputy Commissioner, are laid down in Article 3 of the Act on Fundamental Rights. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 defines in detail. It is clear from the regulation that the performance of the task implies close cooperation between the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Commissioner for National Rights. It can be concluded from the period considered that this was not fully achieved. The reform of the legal institution in 2012 did not help to complete the legal protection, as the legislator did not fully resolve the personal issues. On behalf of our ethnic communities, we hope that the new organisational and operational regulations will provide an appropriate framework for the performance of the duties of the new deputy of the Ombudsman. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary entitled B/101 on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates. It supports the proposal for a parliamentary decision on the report submitted. Thank you for your attention. - Дякуву запозур!
u2015-04-13-266	I would like to thank Mrs Giricz Vera for her speech with all due respect. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. [[L. Simon László enters the Chamber and takes his seat as State Secretary. Dr. András Schiffer towards L. Simon László: Fishing. Dr. Gábor Staudt: Fisheries Act? He's asking.]] There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-04-13-267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A positive surprise is what we are experiencing in the walls of Parliament this evening, since we have two State Secretarys sitting among us. [[Interjection, three.]] I apologize. When we continued the first round of discussion, no one was able to sit in the velvet chair. Now it's only two, that's right. The number of Members looked like I could count them on one hand at the time. Now, on the border, I may no longer have the number of representatives on my one hand on the pro-government side. [[20.20]] So forward-looking is the process - [[Dr. Répássy, Robert:]] We will get there, Mr. Secretary of State - what Mr. Répássy, Secretary of State, managed to accomplish; not the last time, now thank God, is here in the walls of Parliament and is doing his job. With regard to the report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies, which is a very wide circle, because without 23 cases, the investigation involved seven thousand cases, although it was obviously not possible to come to the end of all of them, because there are cases that are going through, but the number of cases that this story is about - I have to say - is significant, Mr Secretary of State, listen to me. yes , yeah, he's doing very well. [[Intercoms.]] - that, in many cases, we are talking about your criticism, we are talking about your criticism of your activities. [[Dr. István Józsa: Not for no reason.]] Of course, so, as my fellow Member says, not for no reason. That is why it is good that you are here, though it would have been better if you had read this report and learned from it, because then in your reply or in your thoughts you could say that you overestimated a lot of what you have done in recent years, and that you have the willingness to make changes. Although I doubt anyone can get that idea out of you. You know, if you were to look critically at this summary report, you would have to rethink, override and rephrase the many of your own actions. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] Yes, here in the background, my fellow Member points out - and I agree with him - that this encouragement must be given to you. The opportunity must also be given - you still have the opportunity - and you need to be encouraged in this regard because you can do good in two ways, do good to people on the one hand, and on the other hand you can benefit yourself on the political stage. But let's get to the specifics. In general, it is true in many cases that the government has fulfilled very little of its obligations to negotiate during previous periods - in recent years, but also in the period under consideration - and in many cases it has been taking roads that virtually demonstrate that it has always sought the way and the way in which these necessary consultations can be avoided, simply so that it can enforce its own will in a more easiest way. I think this is a fundamental problem. But let us briefly put a few thoughts on these issues concerning some sensitive surfaces. The test surface is also practically for the unemployed, the homeless, the people in low income positions who are most dependent on social benefits and how they are met. I would like to point out that, in my reading and in my experience, as an example, if I have already started with the unemployed, I must say that there is a great deal of their vulnerability from your direction, from the power side, and not only their vulnerability, but also their inability to do so in the past. You remember when they changed the regulatory system, don't you? As an example, instead of 9 months of job search grants, 3 months have been introduced - the shortest in Europe, by the way - while we also have to say that, of course, they have ensured that contributions are collected from employers and workers in the same way. In other words, you have taken away the contribution of approximately HUF 200 000 million, or HUF 200 billion, from employers and employees, while the most deprived people - who lose their job opportunities, their income resources - have spent some HUF 50 billion for a previous financial contribution of HUF 170-180 billion for this purpose. I think we should learn from this, because a lot of people have been made impossible. You don't care about the problem itself, you don't care about the person with the problem, which is why. You're going to step right through these, and you're not going to be a problem, as far as I can tell, in your life. [[Dr. András Schiffer consults with Dr. Répássy Róbert, sitting in his seat as Secretary of State.]] But I see that you and my fellow Member Schiffer can play a good role in this subject, and you probably understand each other, and then perhaps this story will also help with a great coalition. [[Dr. András Schiffer: It wouldn't be much with you! Defiance. Róbert Zsigó: Be with you, Andrew. Defiance.]] We don't need it and we don't need it. [[Defiance. The president's ringing the bell.]] But the point in the story - to continue with what I have to say - is to know that if I have already introduced the idea with a question of unemployment, then I must also add that, say, in the case of people with multiple handicaps and personalities who, beyond this, have other qualities that make their situation more difficult, I see and I find that you have not added, provided a helping hand for five years, but even lost from what existed and had been there in the previous period. In English: if you need to talk about your social sensitivity, then I can only talk about insensitiveness, not sensitivity. I won't go into numbers, I could quote this, but I'm not going to get deeper in this, I just want to say that you can learn again from the content of the report, because in many cases, you will draw your attention to what this government is not doing right and what they should do differently. And if you support the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies, [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy consults with Dr. Gábor Staudt. Dr. András Schiffer towards Nándor Gúr: Nandi, another great coalition! Defiance. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then you will also have to face the fact that you support what is expressed as a criticism of your bad deeds. I translate the word into Hungarian, Mr Secretary of State: I would like it to be taught and changed by everything that has been done so far, and not by doing so in every sensitive matter to which society resonates - say, employment, unemployment, many other things - to turn a flood of lies and a fall towards people, but simply to talk about reality. It would be easier, because then they would only have to use energy to solve problems, and not how and how they try to influence people, try to make them believe things that are unbelievable. Even in the case of people with changed job skills, you have a tremendous amount of debt. That's a hell of a lot. You know, Mr. Secretary, that there are about half a million people in this circle. I know you're smiling at that, and I don't want to use it to grin, no, but I'm gonna add that you need to deal with the problem, how you can give these people a helping hand. And I would also like to add that you should also consider that these people, especially these people, belong to the circle where they have a very low income position. This is where you should be able to provide a moderate helping hand not only within the framework of the direct but also through the construction of a more normal, fairer system within the framework of the system of indirect measures. These are my suggestions to your attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-268	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer. [[20.30]]
u2015-04-13-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, There is only one subject, I think, that it is worth mentioning in this debate with a non-definable status: the report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is about 2013. This year something happened not too far from our borders, which is definitely the responsibility of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputy for the rights of future generations. Towards the end of this year, a wave of protests against the investment in the gold mine in Verespatak swept through Romania. We are talking about a gold mine investment that a North American profit-oriented company has been trying to implement for a long, long time. It's a cyanide investment. Unfortunately, there is no binding regulation in the European Union at present, despite the Áder EP resolution, which would prohibit the use of cyanide technology. The point is that if this company, Rosia Montana, could make the investment in Romania, then the entire water catchment area of the Tisza, the entire Carpathian Basin, would be exposed to virtually a permanent emergency. The public person responsible for the rights of future generations therefore has a fundamental obligation to inform the Hungarian Government that what he has done in recent years to prevent the investment in the gold mine in Verespatak should be used for all the opportunities offered by the European Union and, in part, by the Espoo Convention. This is about the fact that the Tisza cyanide disaster in 2000 is likely to dwarf the threat to Hungary in the event of a gold mine investment in Verespatak; not to mention that the investment also threatens the cultural heritage of the Carpathian Basin. At the time, at the end of 13, it seemed that this wave of protests would stop this rather unspoken Canadian company from pushing, but the developments in Romanian domestic politics over the last one or two years have shown that they are preparing for a renewed attack. In this case, it would be important to have a lookout in Hungary to warn the Hungarian government of the obligation to ensure the quality of life of the entire Carpathian Basin, the living conditions of future generations. For example, the Hungarian Government should be called upon to act within the European Union in order to ensure that a decision of the European Parliament, which was adopted by János Áder and László Tőkés in 2009, becomes a binding norm within the European Union and thus prevent such companies, such as Rosia Montana, from unscrupulously destroying natural heritage, from eating natural resources. In this context, however, there is another danger, namely that free trade negotiations between Europe and America may lead to the fact that, if Hungary, the Hungarian Prime Minister, agrees to this convention, such companies, such global corporations, may even seek compensation in the future if a national government or the European Union refuses to overcome the interests of the people living there. [[Noise from the benches of MSZP. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] This is why it is important for the future this year that the Ombudsman and his deputy responsible for the rights of future generations keep an eye on him in the free trade negotiations. If we succeed in pushing global large companies against democratically elected governments or European institutions, it means that we have little or no means of protecting the quality of life for future generations. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-270	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. György Rubovszky: Yes.]] I give the floor to Congressman György Rubovszky, President of the Commission.
u2015-04-13-271	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Professor, I am in a difficult situation because according to the rules of the detailed debate, a single sentence on the content has not been said. So I can't react, because what's said here has nothing to do with a detailed debate. Nándor Gúr even gave a false look at the general debate, because it is actually about the last three months of 13, the subject of the present report, for which there was a general debate, in the presence of the professor, all the factions could express their views. Today, it could only be argued whether the decision of the Judicial Committee was in line with the house rules 44. §2 of the EC Treaty. [[Dr. László Szakács: Uncle Gyuri criticizes the meeting?]] There was no amendment or comment on this. With all due respect, this House will accept the report and vote in favour of the parliamentary resolution. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-13-272	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place on the second day of our meeting. Next up, Honourable Parliament, the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. A separate motion from the Judicial Committee is made by T/3879. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Judicial Committee as designated committee on the detailed debate T/3879/3. they have been granted a serial number. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Rubovszky, if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. György Rubovszky: No.]] It says no. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[Dr. Répássy Robert reporting.]] I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2015-04-13-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. During the debate of Parliament's committees, and precisely during the debate of the Justice Committee, we expressed the view of the Ministry of Justice as to why we did not support amendments. There is basically no reason for this, but because we believe that there is a particularly important interest in the adoption by Parliament of the bill as soon as possible. In order to ensure the functioning of the Chamber of Executives of the Court, I therefore ask you to consider, in tomorrow's vote and, of course, in this debate, that we adopt further amendments to the bill. Undoubtedly, the amendments tabled by Mr Schiffer contain elements that we can agree on in substance, although partly because of their wording and partly because, as I said, because of the interest in adopting the bill as soon as possible, we cannot support the amendments. At the same time, I call on this House to support the bill tabled by the rapporteur. I said, of course, on behalf of the Government, that we cannot support it; the rapporteur also said the same thing in the Judicial Committee. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-13-274	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, rapporteur of the designated Justice Committee, in a six-minute time frame.
u2015-04-13-275	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like, in part, to repeat or supplement what the Secretary of State said, given that this was said in the debate, or that was what the Commission's debate was about. I can express the Commission's majority position, because we also supported this proposal. I also have to say that there has not been too many comments in the debate, and I have spoken to it myself, and President György Rubovszky, President of the Committee. [[20.40]] I have also raised this question, which the Secretary of State has just said: if you would have supported these amendments, then perhaps it would have been impossible to bring it in earlier or find a way to integrate it into the proposal already. At first, the Secretary of State said that he could not support him in this form, and then, of course, he explained that the direction might be good, but we are short of time. I think - and I said this at the committee meeting - that the proposals tabled by András Schiffer would have tightened up and made the amendment more clear, so that legislation would have been in the right direction or in the better direction if they had been adopted. But the chairman of the committee, György Rubovszky, said that on the basis of the article published in the Magyar Nemzet, the Executive Chamber brought forward its general assembly scheduled for May, with the intention of quasi-prevention of the Parliament, because in the working order of the Parliament, I think the scheduled adoption and final vote date was 27 April, which would perhaps have come out that if amendments had been accepted, it would have obviously pushed it out with committee debates and everything else. Répássy Róbert State Secretary confirmed this at the committee meeting, as he referred to here, but let us be absolutely clear: he provided information from the Ministry of Justice and confirmed that the Assembly of the Hungarian Chamber of Executives was convened on 24 April. And he also announced that in the future - this was also an important, recorded thought, and we hope that it will be so - there will be a major change in the enforcement system. Obviously, this also means a change of legislation, and similar proposals, in line with the direction of the proposed amendments, will be included in the legislative amendment likely to be submitted to Parliament in spring. It also came up during the Commission debate - because we are naturally looking forward to this, and we hope that it will come, and the government will discuss this proposal; that we will say it not in the Commission part, but in the party part, in the faction section, so I would like to present only what has been said on the committee - as I have asked myself, whether we will interpret it correctly, because András Schiffer also had a clarification proposal in this regard, that the rules that have now been adopted and which will enter into force in the course of a Chamber renewal which will then take place, will apply in the same way. That was the question, and the Secretary of State said that yes, the Ministry also interprets the law as applying the provisions immediately after the entry into force, and therefore also in the subsequent Chamber renewal. This was a reassuring response, and in some respects some of the amendments were answered by the Secretary of State. This is what happened before the committee, and then the committee supported this proposal with perhaps two abstentions, with 10 yeses. As I said, we were able to support this, and we also achieved a convincing majority in front of the committee. And I'd say the rest in the faction. Mr President, thank you very much, that is all that happened at the committee meeting. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-04-13-276	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-04-13-277	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I do not wish to repeat the arguments that we have made in the previous debate, at the maximum level of reference, because it must be placed on the table now that nothing in a given world will change meaningfully from this amendment to the problems of implementation. But if the Secretary of State has a different opinion on this, I would be happy to hear it now in the debate, and not as usual in the closing. The other thing I would like to note is that I do not find it appropriate to argue that they do not support amendments because it would delay the entry into force. Dear Secretary of State, Today we have discussed a bill with a derogation from house rules in such a way that today we have discussed it, and tomorrow Parliament will vote on it. It was also possible to submit amendments to this, and if these amendments had been to be adopted by the House, a final vote on this could have been held tomorrow. In other words, there are the parliamentary options that, if you do not think any amendments to the opposition side that are bad or even acceptable, which is rarely done, we should create the possibility for them to be adopted without, by the way, endangering the legislative will, as far as the entry into force is concerned. So I think that these are specifically arguments that can be summarised in such a way - they know what the saying is about the end of not wanting. The other is that I would like to know, Mr Secretary of State - I would like you to give me some information on this - what is the reason why this must enter into force before the general assembly is held. I think it's a good thing that the Assembly was convened so early in the Executive Chamber, so early it's possible to have a cleanup, because that was your intention, wasn't it? That the Minister for Foreign Affairs must have this power so that this state of affairs will cease as soon as possible, that the Chamber has no leadership. Well, now this situation will cease as soon as possible without otherwise being called by the Minister's Commissioner; they have called for it themselves. I understand this problem, don't I? [[Dr. György Rubovszky says no.]] If not, then President Rubovszky, do it to tell us what the problem is. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to support this proposal because, in our view, the sky does not solve anything in a given world of problems, the problems that otherwise exist and are real, which concern implementation and the operation of the Executive Chamber. Once again, I can point out that in the event that you can support amendments, let us create the possibility of house rules to adopt the law in time, but together with the amendments, along with those which, by the way, or at least some of them, the majority in Parliament seems to agree. I look forward to the answers, and then I would take the opportunity to speak. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-13-278	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2015-04-13-279	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Then I can also express a group opinion, and this will differ somewhat in the form that I am not limited to the Commission debate. It was very interesting to listen to Gergely Bárándy's words, as I remember - here is the protocol - that the present MSZP representative did not support András Schiffer's amendments. So you have asked for how good it would be for Parliament to make these amendments... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I've asked for a principle.]] Yes, things in principle can be asked for, but why have they not submitted any amendments to this? Then I would understand that you would like to include them in the proposal. We are actually debating something here that neither the amendments tabled by András Schiffer were supported by the MSZP, but now they are asking why we can hold a final vote and why the House cannot otherwise negotiate and accept these proposals. So it seems a little weird to me, and frankly, it's like they're trying to find reasons and reasons why the MSZP won't support this proposal in the final vote, which I think it could do. As far as I know, the LMP will also support us, obviously András Schiffer will give his own opinion. So the thing is, what we have here in the case of enforcement must be dealt with in some way. We are pleased that the government has found that out, and it seems that the government, if I may put it this way, is involved in this conflict, which means that the Executive Chamber or certain officials here sometimes have an independent life. If my information is correct, the Chamber has also concluded serious media contracts, so that it actually appears in the media as an independent matter, in an appropriate manner, and, if appropriate, its communication should be as striking as possible. [[20.50]] As I understand it - and I am well aware, as it was also announced in the press - the Ministry also reported on the operation of the Chamber with a lot of points. We're looking forward to an update. We would go further on the position of the Ministry and the Government - and we very much hope that at some point you will get where the LMP seems to have already reached, at least from the previous speech by András Schiffer - that a non-profit system is needed. We need a state system. How and, like, we're completely flexible in that. By the way, we had a proposal for a decision earlier, which was precisely about the government developing its own system, but in 1994 something was very wrong, because the courts, prosecutors and police were not given to profit-oriented companies, even though they could have done so. [[Dr. András Schiffer: There was a need for it.]] Yes, there would have been a need, as my fellow Member András Schiffer said, for many reasons there would have been a need, but this is not a good and not a viable way. We are now hearing statements and, as I said in the Commission's round, there will be a comprehensive proposal. By the way, I fear that this will not reach the level that we can actually tackle the problem, at most - not so! - Fidesz close executives will be appointed instead of the current set. I'm not sure that's gonna happen, but let me keep that fear if the current system stays. Perhaps by increasing skills requirements, with a stricter state control, but the profit-oriented system will continue to work in the same way. This is all the more so, because in many cases - we have said this in front of the Parliament, but we have been getting information from people since then - often the executive's labor fee is in the way of the settlement. So you can't say that we would just side with the debtors, because that's not the case. We believe that we need a system in which both the enforcement seeker and the debtor are properly protected by guarantees, and that a case which happens very often does not occur, even though they have agreed, after some part of the debt or the remission of interest - if the debtor can pay it - one of them is left, the other one is right, and forget each other, but the enforcer comes and says that he is asking for his work fee for the full amount, and that no matter what happens, the two parties are standing there that they cannot do anything, even though the enforcer has not done a serious job in this case. We hear a lot of these cases. So there are problems. Moreover, I do not fully see that if the chamber operates as a public body and floats somewhere between a public body and a private body - because we can see a floating intermediate state - the problem is that compared to the Bar Association, where the chamber makes a living from members' contributions, and finally the members determine who will lead the chamber, increase or decrease the membership fee, of course, some who like it, some who do not like it, but basically the members are adding it; in this case, as far as the cost girl is concerned, it is a mandatory and first duty to be collected and a certain percentage to be transferred to the Chamber to the amount that has to be recovered from the debtor, and in this way the debtors also hold the Chamber directly. In any case, it should also be said that this was a temporary rule in the past, which, by the miracle of miracles, remained in the law. And the fact that he could remain in it is proof of the lobbying power of the Executive Chamber. I am very pleased if this seems to change, because Parliament and the government have to decide what rules to apply, and if this was used as a transitional rule, then someone had to do something very well to change it. We want to put a stop to this, and we trust that in the future, the government will see - it can still do so, because it has not yet put forward its proposal for a new system - that only a non-profit state system can function properly in the future, giving adequate guarantees. Nor is it a good reason, nor is it a good reason, that when this system was introduced, the performance indicators failed compared to the current profit-oriented system, because if we accepted this, we would also accept that the state is a bad farmer. And how many times did Fidesz say it wasn't like that? I would also say to Mr State Secretary, because it is important: we also supported him when the state played a greater role in certain sectors, even in the field of utility companies; but if that is the case, and the government argued that the state is not a bad farmer, then there should be no bad farmer in implementation. And I ask that what, say, could have been operational at a public utility company and was an appropriate government argument, work in the same way in the execution of the judgments of the state courts. There is no logic to explain that they are not thinking in a non-profit system, or that the logic that can be explained is by no means what we can accept. So I would ask you to reconsider and put forward in the future a proposal that supports and introduces the state system. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-04-13-280	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr András Schiffer, leader of the Group, LMP.
u2015-04-13-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Let me start by saying, just for the record, that there is a parliamentary debate, a summary debate, and there is one person in the horseshoe from the faction of the major ruling party, and it seems that no one wants to represent the position of the Fidesz Group. I think that, given the recent months, the Fidesz could have a little more humility towards Parliament and the public. My fellow Member, Mr Staudt, was terribly concerned about the position of the Socialist Party on this bill. I don't think there's any surprises in this, and we'll see tomorrow, just like in the case of the Islamic State; I'm sure they'll come up with a coin toss. Mr Répássy, State Secretary, in which he informed me that he was in favour of the direction of the proposal, thank you, of course. I also understand what the procedural problem is here, but I would like to show you with due respect that it may be up to the barons of Chambers to prevent this coup for two weeks now - but there have been five years, Mr. Secretary of State. For five years, the Fidesz-KDNP government, with a two-thirds majority, has watched behind it how this whole mess goes on in the enforcement market and in the Executive Chamber. They're five years behind schedule! I say that with regard to the specific proposal and the specific deadline, I understand, of course, and I would like to emphasise once again that the proposals that we have put forward go towards tightening up, and I still feel that the system is closed and logical, that once a professional requirement for becoming an executive is laid down, it is logical that, while there is a chamber - I hope for as little time as possible - the professional requirements for the performance of chamber positions, which are the entry requirements, are required by the legislator. I would like to take the floor of the Secretary of State that, even this spring, within a month or two, Parliament will be faced with the amendment of the Vht., which introduces these restrictive requirements in the 1994 LIII. Law. But there's no stopping here, Mr. Secretary. You have to see that this whole system has collapsed. It was precisely the foreign exchange crisis that showed very precisely that a mob-like network had been installed on it, and it would be the duty of the State to finally throw the system into the trash that was set up by the 1994 LIII. Law brought me here. My fellow Member, Mr Staudt, was exemplary with public utility companies. I think that in terms of implementation, it is even more so than in terms of public services. It is simply that, Mr Secretary of State, from the moment a final judgment is reached in a civil trial, it is no longer a matter of enforcing my will as plaintiff. If the judge states the sentence in the name of the republic - or now not the republic - it will be the enforcement of the state will, and the enforcement of the state will cannot be issued to private enterprises, or even to public bodies. Mr. Secretary. Ceterum censeo, I can only say that the Executive Chamber must be abolished, the implementation system must be nationalised, as it did in the legal system of the Republic between 1990 and 1994. [[21.00]] The enforcement of judgments made before the coat of arms of the Republic cannot be entrusted to private contractors or to public bodies of private contractors. This has been revealed in recent years, especially in the implementation of foreign exchange credit lawsuits. This is practically a straight line in the direction that the Community interest will continue to be preceded by private interests, by mafia interests. Mr. Secretary. Of course, we've heard Tyradas over the last 25 years that the state is a bad farmer. We have a fellow Member who, a few years ago, raised the privatization of the police as part of his writing work here, but we can see where this world is leading. State will enforcement cannot be entrusted to private entrepreneurs, which is why I look forward to the Fidesz-KDNP government finally pouring clean water into the glass after five years of delay, and bringing in a new system that ensures that the poor man can easily get to the truth and that he will not be stripped of by an executive and that corruption networks will not overwhelm the enforcement of the state's will. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt and R. Benedek Sallai applaud.]]
u2015-04-13-282	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2015-04-13-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, To be honest, I don't understand what you don't understand, either Congressman Schiffer or Congressman Staudt. Firstly, Congressman, we do not support this proposal. That's a relatively clear statement, isn't it? I made the same statement the last time in the debate. The fact that you weren't listening, or you don't understand, or you don't want to understand, I just feel sorry for that, but I don't think it's possible to say it any more clearly. The other thing that Congressman Staudt said is why we are not submitting an amendment. Well, I also made that very clear in the previous debate. Because, Congressman, this system, as it is, is not considered appropriate and appropriate. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Neither do we.]] Yes, you have said it, and that is why I am amazed at the words you have said, and what Congressman Schiffer, Mr Group Leader, has said. Indeed, Fidesz has now created a hybrid system that is neither public nor private. You, of course, because you can't call it a state, and you even have a chamber. But the whole system is government guardianship with your amendment proposal. And now they're trying to fine-tune the detailed rules of this guardianship system just as it seems logical to you, given the current problems that arise. I said and I'm telling you right now that this has to be done. It's your responsibility, your government's responsibility, how you intend to do it. But one thing I'm sure is that the kind of temporary solution that you guys are making up and absolving me doesn't lead to anything. Now, do you expect a opposition party to make additional amendments to a bad system, a hybrid system, where you are constantly changing the rules on this matter? It doesn't make sense, fellow Members. There's no point in drilling this system. There's no point in changing it. [[Dr. András Schiffer: It must be terminated.]] This would require a normal, uniform regulation, which, if possible, can be developed by consensus. Because there is one consensus between the parliamentary parties that there is a need for change. There is a compromise and there is consensus that, as it now works, it will no longer work. There is also a consensus that one of the most important problems that we are not talking about is how enforcement fees are developing, and what a burden this is for ordinary citizens, for those who are otherwise suffering or who are holders of the act. But once again, for this hybrid system, for this no-good freak show, there is no point in making any amendments. And one thing is very misunderstood, honourable Members. The fact that I have argued that we should create the opportunity to adopt amendments does not mean that I can agree with them. This means that, let us say, I would speak up if someone wanted to limit the expression of opinion in Parliament, even the expression of opinion with which I might disagree, I think about it in the same way. I say that I stand by it on a principle basis that, if a part of the government and opposition agrees with an amending proposal, they should not make it so sabotage that they claim that otherwise the law cannot enter into force in time when they know and apply precisely the parliamentary techniques that allow it to enter into force. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, I think, need to see a little beyond a particular law and its trial. These are questions of principle. That's what I'm talking about. If you can't understand this, I can sincerely regret it. I'm truly sorry. Instead of pointing out, Mr Secretary of State could take part in Parliament's debate and answer the questions as promised at that stage of the debate, or at least President Rubovszky, which I asked for to be discussed with him. It would be good if you did that, Mr. Secretary, and didn't sigh and show off. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-13-284	Thank you. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to reply. It says yes. I give the floor to President György Rubovszky.
u2015-04-13-285	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, A lot of things were said in the debate that justify the transformation of the implementation system and the enforcement system. I agree with those 90 percent. But such a system transformation can not be resolved with a Commission amendment, a Commission bill, in my opinion. I would like to remind this House that what we are discussing here is a separate motion from the Justice Committee. [[To intervene:]] Excuse me? We're the messengers, that's right. It's not the government. So I would like to refer here practically to it, and Mr Staudt said exactly what happened at the committee meeting. I would like to say that, in addition to the references to me, I have also said that, if the Government referral promised on the subject will not be made, I will be the one to initiate the amendment tabled by Mr András Schiffer and I in the general debate had an idea of what I would like to clarify... - on this basis, we would therefore propose a new Commission separate bill on this issue. But I completely agree that we may be making a fatal mistake here. I do not agree with Gergely Bárándy's statement that we should be happy that the Chamber will make a decision. Mr President, the amendments that we have tabled are all those which almost require that they come into force before the election of new officials. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Which, for example?]] I'm not an example, Congressman. You could have asked me at the committee meeting, we told you there. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Tell me one thing. I can ask you now. The president's ringing the bell.]] You can ask, I'm just not gonna answer it. Congressman! Like it or not, I had a nursery. I'm not going to answer such interim disputes. [[Gábor István Bellozó: It could have been in the meantime. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This is a parliamentary genre. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would very much ask the House, which Mr Staudt has said, for the Commission's position, with respect to this House, to please adopt the bill. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Just one example, one example!]] Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-286	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place on the second day of our meeting. Dear Parliament, Next, the 2005 LXIV on the Budapest agglomeration Spatial Planning Plan. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. [[21.10]] The submission is T/4026. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission report by the Judicial Committee as designated committee closes a detailed discussion T/4026/2. they have been granted a serial number. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I see only one candidate, Congressman Sallai Benedek, and there may be another in Politics. You have the floor, Congressman Sallai.
u2015-04-13-287	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We dealt with the draft legislation with little political sentiments, but rather with a little concerned professionalism. Overall, with the government's intention to simplify the administrative burden of the municipalities concerned and to simplify their procedures, we consider it to be to be supported, and in general, we believe that it would be necessary to extend this to municipalities outside the Budapest agglomeration law, and it would not be justified for the State to always put such service and procedural charges from one pocket to another through its various organisations. So it would be good if this approach were introduced and applied elsewhere. So this kind of bureaucracy reduction, we think, can serve the goal of making the municipalities better. At the same time, we have tried to look at many, many of these settlements, which are subject to the law, which are the settlement plans and documents that we would now create an opportunity for the municipalities to accept by law, without further procedures and complicated procedures, on the basis of this amendment. However, our concern is that, in some cases, these settlement plans have been so long that, perhaps due to the planning of a previous inappropriate municipal practice, green areas may be implemented that would no longer necessarily serve the legislator's intention. Here, I recall that we agreed with Mr State Secretary on the matter of the mall law that greenfield investments should basically be reduced, in the same way that there is such a background to the inclusion of indoors and the use of current green areas in the interior, that it would be very, very good if these municipalities did not change the exploitation methods listed in the agglomeration law, green surface exploitation, forestry exploitation, closed garden exploitation, and that we would not achieve that this would now be allowed to the municipalities in practice without a review. For this reason, our party's position is a abstention, because we wanted to express our support for simplification, but we have concerns, because we do not look at all the plans of the 80 municipalities. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-288	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, State Secretary, the rapporteur.
u2015-04-13-289	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The only reason I'm speaking to him here at the end is to re-explain my hope of discussing what we need to discuss in a closing debate. Once again, my fellow Member has put forward the arguments he has already made in the general debate. Then I answered with decency, so I do not wish to repeat my position. So I only ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the law, and I ask the opposition representatives to really argue in Parliament in accordance with the rules of this House, because it makes no sense that we have discussed this issue here in plenary once, we have discussed it in committee, and for the third time we have to say the same thing. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-04-13-290	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place on the second day of our meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/3750. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Agriculture T/3750/3. by serial number T/3750/4. they have been granted a serial number. T/3750/6. by serial number T/3750/7. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-04-13-291	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 2 April 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. T/3750. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the six-point technical amendment proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, which was supported by 27 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. This amendment is linked to the Food Chain Security Strategy adopted in 2013. The strategy aims to ensure that food chain products are at all times healthy, of high quality and safe, and that people and society demonstrate a high level of awareness and responsibility in their production, trade, use and consumption. To this end, the strategy proposed the introduction of a system of central risk analysis, to which the bill takes steps. The results of the quality assessment of food chain products have so far been incompatible at systemic level due to the fragmented network, and the certificates for food chain products, trademarks and certificates of origin have created an opaque system for citizens. In order to standardise and rationalise the fragmented network, a central risk analysis system and a national food chain certification and origin assessment system based on state laboratories are required. These systems will centrally aggregate the data generated at national level so that food chain monitoring can become more effective. Our Committee adopted the summary amendment by 27 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. The Commission's majority opinion was thus presented. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-04-13-292	Thank you very much. I ask the author if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-04-13-293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the amendment of the Law on the Food Chain and Official Surveillance, technical amendments, as has been said above, have been highlighted. I would just like to say three thoughts in a complementary manner, adapted to this. One is that, obviously, it is a fundamental requirement for everyone to have food safety above all, so that a system is put together within which people are not in danger, not to be able to feed children, let's say, in quotes, with dog meat; you certainly remember the example of Tiszafüred, Mr Secretary of State. [[21.20]] From the reduction of counterfeiting, from the labelling of meat, through contaminated, repainted products, through expired warranty, to repacking, and I am not going into the details, because this is not the time, but the brakes must be enforced in this respect. Obviously, tightening up fines can also help to improve this system or this system, but I think that not only the presence of the authorities and the increase in measures and fines can bring results. Obviously, it is also essential to create conscious consumer behaviour here, but I would like to add that it is clearly necessary to establish a set of conditions for people, such as remuneration, which gives and creates the possibility of doing so in terms of wages. My last final thought is about the fact that, as usual in all areas of the economy, in my personal opinion, the black economy, black trade, black activity, once again, must be liquidated. This can also lead to a clearer system and the normal processes that serve the interests of the people. I wanted to add these additional points in addition to the technical amendments. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Member of the LMP.
u2015-04-13-295	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have come to know the draft legislation, we have tabled an amendment, we wanted it to be better in a number of respects, and we wanted the rural table and accommodation-eating services to be better achieved in this implementation. Unfortunately, this commission did not support it, and in this form we consider it only such an additional proposal, the directions of which could be agreed if there were sufficient government intentions to apply the existing legislation. In the last few months, there have been a number of major media scandals in various places, in hygiene conditions in food production, which, obviously, should have failed at a higher level of control than a higher level of official presence. We would therefore like to support all phases of this kind of control, which we consider desirable and necessary. But since we wanted to make sure that such efforts did not endanger small village hospitality, we formed our group's position that, unfortunately, in this form, we can only guarantee the government residence instead of support. We wish you good luck in the implementation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-296	Thank you very much. The next announced speaker was Mr János Pócs, Member Fidesz.
u2015-04-13-297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Several of my fellow Members have criticised the proposal to amend the Food Chain Act in the course of previous debates, but only a few amendments have been made to the motion. At the beginning of the criticisms, there is certainly agreement that the amendment of the law is necessary, even for the sake of EU membership. In addition, it is clear that the direction is good, and the debate was just that, where appropriate, stricter or lighter rules should be introduced. As a result of the Commission's discussions, only amendments to the single proposal were incorporated, so we will be voting on the original moderate amendment tomorrow. Thus, with the support of the bill, rules for the operation of the central risk analysis system and the national food chain certification and origin testing system based on the state laboratory, the specifications for the development of different certification systems and the clarification of the food chain monitoring fee may also be included in the food law. In this spirit, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-298	Thank you very much, Congressman Puddle. The next announced speaker is the representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, Anita Heringes.
u2015-04-13-299	Thank you very much for the floor. One of the most important tools, I think, is that consciousness formation, which this bill will now help, because we find a lot of clarification and amendments to the law amendment, because we need these clarifications to allow people to shop calmly and to cook food for children from the products they buy. After all, in recent times, we have seen that in many cases serious violations have been found in organic foods produced in Hungary, so it is not possible to clarify, modify, supervise and examine these things, because it does not matter to people what comes on their table. Especially because it is precisely our age that already consciously thinks about what kind of food he puts on his own table and his children, so our faction will, of course, support this amendment. We would have been pleased if these amendments had been made a little sooner, and we would have been pleased if they had taken this task seriously before, because I think that a generation of people who really care about this issue is now growing up. We therefore believe that social awareness-forming should be forced, and conscious consumers should be trained, taught, who will be able to go and buy freely, and will easily find on products what ratings come from, and a uniform system should be established, so that it is clear to everyone what products they can buy. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-300	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr László Szakács, MSZP.
u2015-04-13-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'm gonna be a little out of line. First of all, from a budgetary point of view, I would like to examine, first or foremost, not this proposal, but the basic proposal itself, because we know that this proposal brings only technical amendments that have obviously caused serious debates in the profession, but yet I say that on the one hand, we also need to see that we are talking about a fee against which there is no service for a very long time. It's actually a tax. This is nothing more than a tax that we pay for each product, as we have already said in the debate on the budget when we discussed the increase in this fee between the laws establishing the 2015 budget, that we have two major problems with it. One of them is that the state is getting so much revenue, that if from now on all the labs, veterinarians, and everyone who deals with animal health and food health are now employed by the Nébih, they can't spend that kind of resources. And our other problem was what is the service that we are going to set against the prize that we are introducing here. I also said there in the last debate in Parliament, which I would particularly like to discuss for a thought, that we really should know where the 45 billion forints we collect from it are, but we do not necessarily use it, because we use 17-19 percent of the amount collected in this way for the noble purposes that my fellow Members have praised here. And I think that all of them are a very good goal, but then a much greater percentage should be used for the same purpose, not to throw it in the big hat, where - I don't want to say anything else - God doesn't know what's going on with him or where he's going to be transferred. What we have missed in the debate is what my fellow Members and Secretary of State V. Németh have always called for, what is the strategy that we are pursuing. Where is awareness education, where is it on the primary page, so on the producer's side, the sales side, where is the kind of awareness education we see from this user's side? Thirdly, of course, we believe that the incomes and consumption patterns of the Hungarian population do not at least allow them to pay such a fee for what, I believe, could be provided at a cheaper rate, and especially that this service is incomplete in this respect. [[21.30]] There was one more question that came up even during the debate on the budget, and I think it should be mentioned again here. This is why we always wonder whether it is not about rewriting the market, because there is a very high percentage of the fee that has to be paid. We have seen how the market has reacted to this, and we have seen that this, which was bad for market players, and it always somehow occurs that certain entrepreneurs close to the governing parties are usually beneficiaries of these legislations, or of these new charges imposed, or even tax charges. That is why it is likely that this explains why this is not related to any medium- or long-term strategy or why this medium- and long-term strategy cannot be discussed. And here I would like to turn to the parliamentary debate for an idea where we could have a very interesting debate, where we talked about everything, except what the state is collecting, how much money, how the state handles and what the Hungarian state gives for this. There was talk about the lithium battery for hybrid cars, waste management XXI. I would like to draw Parliament's attention once again to the fact that I believe that there are very, very expert Members of Parliament among us, but this is not a conference. This is the building of the legislation, where, I believe, when we impose certain charges, we have to determine what services the state provides, if not, whether it is a tax, and, of course, they also undertake that it is a tax, and then we have to see exactly what conditions, what institutional background the Hungarian State should provide for this. I think it's our job, and the rest of it needs a good conference. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-13-302	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2015-04-13-303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In the general debate, my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Karpát, who then passed this law, also said the criticisms and the positive, forward-looking amendments that we discovered in this proposal. This has not changed very much, on the one hand, unfortunately, because there have been amendments that we would have liked to see incorporated into the present proposal, but on the other hand this also means that our attitude on the matter has not changed very much. I believe that a stay will come out of the Jobbik faction at the end of this bill, because, as I said, it is quite double. Of course, we also consider it very important to amend the Food Chain Act, because it was indeed necessary, we know that there was a pressure in the European Union and that the legislation had to be updated, so, as I say, it can be seen that this was here. I also accept what other fellow Members, who have spoken before me, said that it is actually a tax, but I think that it is not necessarily the task of the present draft to clarify what the state is providing in return and how it is doing so. We very, very much missed it, which was also mentioned by another opposition colleague that it does not break the issue of rural tourism, agrotourism. I think that this issue would be worth a separate piece of legislation. We have often said here, among the walls of the House, the Italian or the Austrian example, where it works well, and I think that it is not necessary to invent the Spanish wax, but it is worth looking at the well-functioning systems and seeing how it can be integrated into Hungary. I know it is not the duty of this draft law, but I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are looking forward to this long-promised package of legislation, specifically on rural agrotourism, which would amend the six or eight laws that are necessary for this to start in Hungary, and indeed for a viable system. We also have to say here, while we are talking about the prizes, that 27 percent, record-high VAT is also a problem that results in the fact that we have to talk at all this often about the existence of nooks and abuse of these in Hungary. It would be good to finally take at least seriously the better proposal for basic food, to look at what a radical VAT reduction would mean, for example, to 5% of these foods. I wanted to say these, because, as I said, in the general debate, Dániel Z. Kárpát already gave a detailed opinion on the legislation, and I confirm once again that we will be able to put one abstention in favour of this proposal. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-304	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The rapporteur, Mr Róbert Zsigó, points out that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2015-04-13-305	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to take your patience here in the evening class. First of all, I would like to thank all the Members who participated in the debate and, of course, also the work of the committees, for the points of the summation of the legislative committee's amendment, but I must respond briefly to some of the things that have just been said, because I think that there has been a lot to say. I'm just trying to talk about what's going on with the bill and the food chain security behind it. I would just like to respond to some of Mr Cook's comments. No, Congressman, as much as you'd like to talk to the public, it's not a tax, it's an award. If you look into the... [[Dr. László Szakács: We need a service behind it!]] If you look into the... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] If you look into the regulation, it is clearly regulated that 10 percent of the food chain monitoring fee collected should be used for development, 60 percent for this work of government agencies and 40 percent for the operation and work of the National Food Chain Safety Office. [[Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP: 110 percent!]] So the thing is, Congressman, this is clearly regulated. You have repeatedly said what a strategy is to spend this money and why you cannot talk about it. I don't know why you think you can't talk about it. In the general debate, you would have had the opportunity to talk about the national food chain security strategy. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] which the government adopted in 2013 and, by the way, Nébih is doing along this strategy the work that, I think, has been criticised here by several people, and it has been said several times why there is no more to hear about food, food abuse; therefore, they are talking about the examples that have been published by the Authority. Of course, we cannot rest assured - I agree with Mrs Heringes - as long as there is one problem that needs to be resolved in this area, in this place, but I believe that the authority's dual task of providing all information to consumers, customers and businesses is to be partners, and, of course, to take action in all serious cases is to try hard to prevent the black economy and food counterfeiting... But I think that this work, with your support, can be effective, because I believe that we can have a twofold goal together: on the one hand, to maintain and operate a unified, strong system, which can indeed guarantee - because food is a trust product - that the customer who goes to the store and buys can buy healthy food and, on the other hand, we must have a common goal to ensure healthy, safe food on every family's table. Thank you once again to all those who participated in this debate, and I would like to ask you to support the amendment in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-13-306	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place on the second day of our meeting. I'd like to ask Congressman Nándor Gúr to adjust his signal, his two-minute window is down. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 CXXIX on the protection of agricultural land. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. [[21.40]] The submission is T/3753. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Agriculture T/3753/3. and T/3753/4. they have been granted a serial number. Report by the Committee on Sustainable Development on the detailed debate T/3753/5. received on a serial number. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3753/7. by serial number T/3753/8. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes will be available to my fellow Member, Mr Vécsey, who is the rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-307	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 2 April 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2007 CXXIX on the protection of agricultural land. T/3753 on the amendment of the Act Legislative proposal No 42 and the amendment proposals in the annex to the summary report, also examining whether they comply with the House Rule 42 of the Decision. Article 44 and Article 44 (1) (a) and (b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the four-point amendment proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, which was supported by 25 votes in favour, no votes against and four abstentions. The Legislative Committee did not make its own amendment proposal. The amendment ensures the alignment of the current connection between the conservation and expropriation procedures. The draft shall lay down specific rules in the field of land protection authorisation procedures and in non-licensed recovery cases where an application for expropriation is submitted to the same area of the land concerned. In this case, the assessment of the request for expropriation shall be given priority over the individual application, taking into account that the request for expropriation is based on the intention to achieve a public interest objective. The draft is also differentiated according to whether it is an ongoing or closed protection procedure for an individual application. The purpose of the amendment is also to clarify the legal rules of the fruit plantation register. In summary, the Committee adopted the summary amendment and the summary report by 25 votes in favour, no votes against, with 4 abstentions. Thank you very much for the attention of this House. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-13-308	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to take the opportunity to speak now. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: No, thank you very much.]] It says no. No rapporteur was set up by the designated Agriculture Committee. The Committee on Sustainable Development, which was linked to the debate, did not wish to present a rapporteur. The committee's minority opinion is presented by Congressman Sallai R. Benedek. You have the floor.
u2015-04-13-309	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Basically, the legislation contains a number of elements corresponding to the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, which have forward-looking elements, but does not address the most important problem, which, due to the spirit of the legislation, is due to the protection of soil. One looks at the ground as if it had no other function than to feed it with food, and this is also indicated by the definition of the soil in the law. The legislation says that soil is nothing more than a conditionally renewable natural resource, which is also the basic production tool of agricultural production, forestry, the living medium of the earth's solid surface, the most important feature of which is fertility. This most important feature is approached from a human perspective, whereas the soil is the primary nutrient source of the biosphere as a whole and the medium of biomass production, a filter and detoxification system with a high buffer capacity, and a gene rezervoar. A larger part of Earth's species, about two thirds of them, lives in the soil, that is, the majority of biodiversity is linked to the soil. We are not fully aware of this because life is not happening before our eyes, and micro-organisations, tiny beings, are invisible to our eyes anyway. At the same time, these tiny creatures account for between 60 and 80 percent of the nutrient turnover, and there are approximately 1 billion low-order organisms in one gram of soil. As stated in the Commission's debate, the biggest problem was that at the moment it takes 2000 years to produce 10 centimeters of soil in the temperate belt area, i.e. 1 centimeter of soil in 200 years, 1 millimeter soil in 20 years, 0,1 millimeter in 2 years, and therefore 0,05 millimetre soil in 1 year, in natural conditions. Researchers from the University of Sydney are engaged in such research in the Department of Sustainable Agriculture, and its leader has a study that a few years ago claimed that the soil in Europe, called advanced and careful, will be destroyed 17 times faster than it is renewed, i.e. it will wear away in a year as much as it would have been in 17 years. For all these reasons, we formulated the minority opinion in the committee, taking into account that the protection, protection and protection of living communities of living organisms in it are not dealt with in any form in the draft legislation, and this is a serious omission, since this year is the year of soil protection, and this has been remembered by many government politicians. However, the submission of this legislation does not in any way give rise to the possibility of achieving this sustainable use of natural resources in the long term. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-310	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz.
u2015-04-13-311	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The proposal has undergone minimal changes during the Commission discussion stages. The provisions on the backbone of the proposal, such as provisions on the method of calculating the ground-rating procedure, the administrative service fee, the clarification of the legal rules of the fruit vineyard register, the relationship between the rules on the protection of land and expropriation, and the sections on the conduct of the ground-protection procedure, have not changed. Most of my fellow Members agreed with the objectives of the proposal during the debates. On the basis of the amendments received, only technical and spelling clarifications were introduced with a more thorough involvement of the crop authority. The compliance of the proposal with house rules has also been established. I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-312	Thank you very much. The next speaker is MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2015-04-13-313	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. The position of Jobbik's faction has not changed with this draft, we will be able to support it. At the same time, I would also like to say that my problem is really not with what is written, but with what is not in it, and our fellow Member Sallai R. Benedek has already talked about it for a long time. I also believe that it is time for such a state, which sets itself up as an agro country, to have a serious soil protection law, which also responds to newer knowledge and newer problems and challenges. Here it would also be appropriate to regulate agro-technical issues, and I think that Europe should think together about how this brutal loss of soil could be solved and prevented by common means. We still have a lot of research ahead of us, but it would also be good for Hungary to be a leader in this, let us say, and the government in the appropriate fora. So to sum up, I don't have a problem with what's written down, but it would really be nice to think about these now, because I'm afraid that we'll only come to your senses when it's too late. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-04-13-314	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Member of the LMP.
u2015-04-13-315	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I have just said the minority opinion of our committee, and I would like to present our party's position very briefly. If you have just described it as a long time ago, I must now be shorter. [[21.50]] Overall, it is obviously what I said in the minority opinion that the amendment before us amends the law on the protection of agricultural land, but CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. It applies only to the provisions of law concerning the exploitation of agricultural land for other purposes. I have now said in the minority opinion that it is estimated that some 75 billion tonnes of land disappears in the world annually, and 80 percent of the world's soil is now in the moderate or significantly eroded category. Obviously, there are more problems in even more intense, even more unsustainable states, such as China, where soil is dying fifty-seven times faster than it is formed, but obviously we should consider that Hungary's most important reserve of natural resources is land. Given our geographical situation, due to the situation in the Carpathian Basin, the land stock that Hungarian society has to farm in the long term is the sole guarantee that the Hungarian nation and our successors can continue sustainable agriculture in this country, and we do not believe that the economy can be based on anything other than the natural resources reserve that is currently found in the Carpathian Basin. As a result, we believe that much more attention should be paid to the protection of agricultural land, much more attention should be paid to its biological protection, support should be given to the spread of mulching technologies from which we can currently see only one in the country in terms of rural development, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and other sources. At the time of the submission of this legislation, the primary aspect should have been that, in addition to all the stages that it is now seeking to amend, there should have been as much opportunity as possible to provide substantial protection for the soil. Water erosion remains the most decisive in Europe, but wind erosion and pollution have also made very serious progress, and physical damage, with deforestation and urbanisation, also results in very high levels of destruction and land loss. Just after the debate, Secretary of State L. Simon went out after having held his point of order presentation, but the agglomeration law we talked about here is precisely such risks, when practically there is legislation passing through Parliament without even looking at how much land we lose in 80 settlements, the risk factors that basically reduce this important reserve of natural resources in the Carpathian Basin. We do not want to argue with what my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar said, which is written down in the draft, but we miss everything that the legislator has not dealt with at all, and because of this deficiency, it is this way that, until we see the guarantees aimed at protecting our country's natural resources reserves, we cannot support it in this way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-316	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2015-04-13-317	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the bill in question, the bill amending the law on the protection of agricultural land, contains a more precise technical provision or provides for the reduction of administrative burdens, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group will support the bill. As I said, there are a number of provisions that we consider to be particularly beneficial, and I would like to highlight one of them, if I may. In the case of fruit plantations, licences had to be obtained from the planting authority in the case of fruit trees over three thousand square metres, and in the case of berry plantations over one thousand square metres, according to the current rules. In the case of a fruit plantation, this thousand-square-metre limit is intended to be increased to 3,000 square metres, i.e. the limit for this. We believe that this is an eligible legislative step. As is the fact that the period of validity of the planting permit would be increased from two years to three years by the draft legislation. We think that these are steps, proposals that we must definitely support. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-318	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Bitay Márton, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place on the second day of our meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the registration of real estate and survey and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. The submission was made in T/3786. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Agriculture T/3786/5. and T/3786/6. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3786/8. and the summary report is T/3786/9. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available to Congressman Zoltán Bóna, who is rapporteur for the committee and to whom I am giving the floor.
u2015-04-13-319	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 2 April 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3786 amending the laws relating to certain real estate registers and surveying. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the proposal for a 9-point amendment by the Committee on Agriculture, which was supported by 23 votes in favour, not by a vote, with 4 abstentions. In addition to the resolution on the amendments, the Legislative Committee adopted its own amendment proposal by 23 votes in favour, not by vote, with four abstentions. This proposal proposes to amend the laws on real estate registration and surveying, in particular to reduce the burden on the person concerned. Each of the amendments contained in the bill serves the purpose of continuing the work aimed at further refining the system of real estate registration in Hungary. Citizens rightly expect that the procedures for property in their possession, often held as a means of production, are simple and reasonable, but it is also important that charges relating to land traffic do not constitute a disproportionately heavy financial burden. The Committee adopted the summary amendment and the summary report by 23 votes to four, with no abstentions. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-320	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Bóna. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Márton Bitay, whether he now wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was set up by the designated Agriculture Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz.
u2015-04-13-321	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The proposal has indeed undergone minor changes and changes during the Commission debate phase. The important provisions that basically lay down the basis of the draft law have not changed, such as the possibility of removing closed gardens from cultivation, clarifying the rules on the abolition of land-use right, or supplementing pre-purchase or pre-lease rules for the sale of adjacent land registered in the wine-growing register, or extending the scope of the tax law's material exemption, all of which remain in the legislation, these changes have not been affected. With the objectives of the proposal, we considered that the majority of the fellow Members agreed during the debate. Among the amendments received, we supported those which basically contained technical and spelling clarifications. Compliance with the house rules has also been established, so I trust that my fellow Members will be able to support this amendment with their votes. Thank you very much. [[22.00]]
u2015-04-13-322	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik, of the speakers that have been announced.
u2015-04-13-323	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The Jobbik's position hasn't changed here either. We also believe that the amendments that are in this draft are necessary and eligible, so I would not waste any more time, but I just wanted to inform the Secretary of State that he can count on our vote in favour here. Then, in other legislation, where there is going to be more serious political debate, I think the story will not be that simple. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2015-04-13-324	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2015-04-13-325	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In advance - as I informed Mr Secretary of State in the general debate - our party's opinion was that there is no political mine in the legislation, specifically nothing that we value, since there are relatively few of them. We would very much like to make this draft legislation a little better, so we have tabled to the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Sustainable Development three amendments, which we think would have made it better and more suitable for adoption, and we have done everything we can to support, unfortunately, the majority of the committees in favour of the government voted off all three amendments, which would have included clarifications and professional improvements. Unfortunately, this does not make us feel complete and perfect, so we cannot support it. I ask you to understand this, and I ask you to accept that the Prime Minister's announcements after the elections in Veszprém that the government will make legislation more open and constructive, that they will learn from mistakes that will be embodied by the electoral will, we do not see any sign of this yet. Obviously, it would help Parliament's work if the governing party and the government could do at least to consider a proposal in substance, which is not a political attack, but is trying to professionally make a piece of legislation more suitable and better. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-326	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2015-04-13-327	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, the bill combines the amendment of five laws: the Law on Charges, the Law on Real Estate Recording, the Law on Surveying and Cartography, the Law on Mountain Villages and the Law on the Establishment of a Central Address Register, and the Law on the modification of certain laws on administrative matters. In practice, there are a number of technical and clarification provisions that could be used to support this bill professionally, such as protected and Natura areas and the registration of the wine grape cadastral and permanent pasture or permanent lawn, as well as the change in data resulting from the removal of closed garden properties, or, for example, the removal of the double obligation on members of the mountain community carrying out agricultural activities. So there are many elements in the bill that deserve support for this bill, but it says a lot about the criticism of the legislative method of the government and the Ministry of Agriculture that, for example, the 2012 XLVI on surveying and mapping activities. Some of the provisions of the Act did not enter into force in 2012, but were calculated with the entry into force of 1 July 2013, this deadline was first extended to 1 July 2015 but in the current proposal, the justification for some clarification provisions is expected to enter into force from 1 July 2017 and, in one case, from 1 July 2018. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] We believe that, since these original deadlines are untenable, it is possible, in this case, that our faction will express with one abstention how much it does not agree with the legislative method that the government or the specialist will apply in this case, for example. But once again, professionally, because of its provisions, the bill would otherwise be eligible. Of course, tomorrow in the vote it will be clear how we will vote on this. Thank you.
u2015-04-13-328	Welcome, fellow Members. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. I'll ask Mr. Bitay if he'll comment. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: No, thank you.]] He indicated, Mr. Secretary, that he did not wish to speak. That concludes the debate. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: No.]] Oh, yeah. Good. Decisions shall take place on the second day of our meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission was made in T/3755. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/3755/6. and T/3755/7. was given to them. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Sustainable Development as a committee on debate T/3755/8. and T/3755/9. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3755/11. T/3755/12. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the Commission.
u2015-04-13-329	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/3755 on 2 April 2015. No XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry A bill amending the Act was submitted by the committee, together with 27 amendments, together with a unanimous report. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own motion, which clarifies the motion of the Committee on Agriculture. The purpose of the amending proposal is to provide the forestry authority with the possibility of asking for registrations in the context of the fight against illegal logging, in which, by the way, the nature protection authority already has this right in another case, in the case of illegal landfilling. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also ask that the legislative committee's amendment be supported in the final vote. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-13-330	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs, if you would like to comment as rapporteur. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to comment. No rapporteur was set up by the designated Agriculture Committee. I give the floor to Gábor Varga, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development in this debate.
u2015-04-13-331	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry T/3755. Examining bill No. [[For portable microphones:]] At its meeting on 23 March, the Committee on Sustainable Development concluded that this would comply with Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. Regulation (EU) No 995/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 October 2010 determining the obligations of operators placing timber and timber products on the market has a significant impact on the forestry sector and/or management. This Regulation requires the development of a system of proof of origin for timber entering the Union's internal market in order to effectively reduce illegal logging, such as the sustainability of forestry. In order to comply with European Union law, the proposed legislation is set out in Annex XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry. It amends and complements certain provisions of the Act. I ask this House to support the bill.
u2015-04-13-332	Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the speakers registered in writing. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy. [[Balázs Győrffy's microphone doesn't work.]] [[22.10]]
u2015-04-13-333	Wait a minute. There's got to be some technical error, because my computer doesn't work the way it's supposed to. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Let's go home then!]]
u2015-04-13-334	Mr. President. My mic's still on.
u2015-04-13-335	Is your mike running?
u2015-04-13-336	Yeah.
u2015-04-13-337	I think the system's frozen here. Wait a minute...
u2015-04-13-338	Mine's still working.
u2015-04-13-339	I'm ordering a technical break for a minute. [[It's a short break.]] Then we shall resume our session; it seems that the technique has been restored, thank God. Congressman Balázs Győrffy has the floor. Here.
u2015-04-13-340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the forest law, I think I can safely say, has unanimous support from all the parliamentary factions. During the debates, we met with an absolutely supportive attitude and constructive proposals. One of the amendments to the forestry authority's action against illegal logging and timber trading activities was also unanimously supported in the debate because we believe that it will indeed increase the effectiveness of controls. I think that I should thank my fellow Members for the constructive work that we have seen on this proposal, and in this spirit I would like to ask everyone with respect to support this amendment in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-341	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-04-13-342	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Jobbik, as we said in the general debate, can support this proposal, because we support all forward-looking measures to protect the forest. In fact, for years we have demanded such steps within the walls of this House. At the same time, we believe that this will not be enough, we will need more tightening up. Technically, what I have already referred to in the general debate is that in the last 25 years, the protection of the forest has been mostly the bear, which has made a positive progress, since we know for two weeks that the number of lumber in the forests where, thanks to God, the bear has reappeared in our northern border area. So it was time for the government to follow this good example and make some progress. This is how we can continue to support it. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-343	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-04-13-344	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The May Other Policy fully supports and strengthens all the government's efforts to provide opportunities for illegal logging. We would also like to support all these efforts. Here, too, we have lived with two separate amendments. To our surprise, in the Committee on Sustainable Development, the government expressed its support for one of them, which would also help to combat wall-shopping. We only have one conceptual problem with this legislation. This is partly due to the previous legislation discussed today, the legislation relating to the real estate register. As we said in the general debate, at the moment, the commonly used biological term is that it applies to practically all wooded groups in the common sense. Therefore, in the legislation relating to the real estate register, we would very much like to distinguish the biological forest, which, as we learn in primary school, has different levels; the trees planted from trees with the same gene pool as the wheat table; and the wooded groups or the forest-protected trees. It would have been good to separate the branches of these cultivation, since basically forestry statistics are being pulled aside by the confusion in this regard, as it should be a gray summer with the same genetic stock, so it should be a wood plant in a paper factory, or there should be a forest in Bükk, which has all biological levels and rich wildlife, which is recorded in the current land register in a uniform manner. In fact, we do not know how, in a biological sense, the most desirable forest stock for Hungary's society, its recreational goals and its ecological goals is actually changing, since it is all under the same conditions. This is a great pain that, as I have indicated, more of our changes to the real estate register have not passed. It is a big problem in this case, because it would help us very much to deal with this case, so that forest protection can actually be achieved by how it changes in the different branches of cultivation, but at present, in a field of cultivation that is legally part of the cultivation sector. Overall, all the efforts, as I have said, to strengthen the fight against illegal logging, selling and stealing, can be supported by our party. However, several of our amendments submitted were not supported. We're very sorry that the government didn't do that. We hope that the former statements by the Secretary of State, which aim at a more comprehensive amendment to the forest law, will be made. Then we can go back to the debate on these issues, and perhaps we will be hearing our professional opinion on this, which we believe would help us a lot in applying the forest protection legislation. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-13-345	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[This is Dr. Zsolt Crew.]] I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Bailey.
u2015-04-13-346	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a 2010 EU regulation that has a significant impact on the forestry sector as well as on management. This Regulation requires the development of a system of proof of origin for timber entering the Union's internal market in order to effectively reduce illegal logging, which, in our view, is of great importance for the sustainability of forestry. Therefore, the draft legislation will be supported by the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party in tomorrow's vote. Thank you.
u2015-04-13-347	If there is no further intention to comment, the debate is closed. [[No one's reporting.]] I'll ask Márton Bitay if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: No.]] He doesn't want to comment. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place on the second day of our meeting. Here comes the 1996 LV on game protection, game management and hunting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/3754. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Agriculture T/3754/6. and T/3754/7. was given to them. Report by the Committee on Sustainable Development on the detailed debate T/3754/8. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3754/10. T/3754/11. Available on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-04-13-348	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/3754 on 2 April 2015. LV 1996 on the conservation of wild game, game management and hunting a bill amending the law. The committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour, with four abstentions, without voting against. The summarised amendment contains only the proposal for a clarification of the position of the Committee on Agriculture. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-13-349	I ask the author if he wishes to comment on the intention to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] Secretary Bitay Márton Örs? [[Dr. Márton Bitay: No, thank you very much.]] No. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Agriculture Committee. I give the floor to Gábor Varga, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development in this debate. [[22.20]]
u2015-04-13-350	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, LV 1996 on the protection of game, game management and hunting T/3754 on the amendment of Act T/3754. The Committee on Sustainable Development, at its meeting on 23 March, concluded that this was in compliance with the house rules, as set out in Article 44 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The bill aims to extend the duration of environmental wildlife management, to reduce professional hunting professional qualifications, and to return the collision of game and motor vehicles to the rules of liability under the old civil code. Please support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-351	Dear House, The committee's minority opinion will be presented in three minutes by Congressman Sallai R. Benedict.
u2015-04-13-352	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This legislation has been discussed in detail, as my fellow committee member said. Thank you, Mr President, for giving us the opportunity to consult the Secretary of State at a separate subcommittee meeting, where we agreed that this was not a political disagreement, but simple professional issues. As I said in the general debate, there are stages of this which we consider to be forward-looking, because in a number of cases it helps to make the right of game farmers to hunt more effective, and civil law changes in insurance are in the interests of game management and those who are eligible for hunting. In some things we wanted to give more precise terminology, but unfortunately we could not bring them through. The only point in which we had a professional disagreement is clearly about the employment of those qualified for hunting. I would like to say that my colleague Anita Heringes, a member of the committee, also wanted to give a minority opinion and empowered me to present the amendment tabled by my fellow Members from MSZP by Zoltán Gőgös, Gábor Harangozó and Dr Zsolt Legény, and discussed by the Committee on Agriculture, which, in its present form, would have meant to retain the obligation of those who are entitled to hunt in their present form to use higher-level game owners over 10 000 hectares and that special-purpose hunting organisations are obliged to apply. This, in our view, was justified on account of wildlife management and professional aspects. Besides, we were also interested in the fact that there are practically hundreds of wild farmers engineers in higher education at universities in Hungary in BSc and MSc, and their situation in the labour market is significantly affected and reduced by this unexpected change in legislation. My colleague, Anita Heringes, and I remained in a minority opinion because this amendment did not please the portfolio, but stuck to its original position. So that's what we said on the committee. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-353	It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In this context, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-04-13-354	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The debate on the present plan was mostly about future opportunities for those with a higher education degree in game management. The two positions, the pro-government and the opposition were quite different. Indeed, it is also important to know why we train so many higher-level farmers if we limit and reduce their opportunities in this way. I also believe that this amendment could be considered. However, I also know that there have been serious arguments from the Secretary of State as to why the government side feels that this existing restriction is unnecessary. There were proposals for bridging solutions here that should have been considered to identify areas where there is a value of genetic wildlife where this might be justified. It is not necessarily necessary to insist on acre classification, but to define the few dozen areas where this might be really necessary. Overall, Jobbik supports this draft - we have also said this during the general debate - but we would also like to have an answer when a major comprehensive amendment to the hunting law can come, which has been promised for a very long time. I've been a Member since 2010, since then I've been told every six months that the hunting law will surely come in the next six months. Mr. President's nodding, so I'm sure he's coming by now. But we are really looking forward to it, not only because of matters on the subject of the Committee on Agriculture, but also because of the problems of wildlife damage management in relation to motorists, or the fact that a significant increase in the number of wild gamers in Hungary is a constant conflict, we can now meet downtown - in the case of large gamers, it is important to stress this - with police cars chasing wild boars. So there are a lot of unique and extreme cases that I think would really justify the government seriously addressing this issue. Not to mention the fact that the redistribution of hunting companies and hunting grounds will be up to date in a very short period of time, which can cause quite serious political tensions and conflicts. If we start from state lands, then allow me to assume as an opposition representative that there may still be debates in this. Therefore, we would like to get to know the legislation as soon as possible and what this will look like in the future, because it will determine the situation of wild and hunting in Hungary for many years. So I would like to have an answer from the Secretary of State on when this comprehensive amendment might come. That's all I wanted to say in short. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-355	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-04-13-356	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. With the opinion of the minority, I have already said about what I can represent in our party's position. In view of its directions, in many cases we considered it necessary for Mr Secretary of State to present this to Parliament at this speed. This was mainly due to the damage caused by the wild game and the recent anomalies. On the other hand, it would have been good to be able to exchange ideas on the employment of higher education graduates during a conceptual transformation during the amendment of the repeatedly mentioned hunting law. Overall, our party can support the direction that wildlife management is an integral and necessary part of sustainable landscape use, and it is therefore essential to have a dialogue within the appropriate parliamentary framework on how to develop wildlife management activities in professional committees. At the same time, we are also committed to ensuring that Parliament, as the main body of legislation, does not, in principle, introduce legislation in relation to an ad hoc problem. For example, what we would have had time to negotiate when the entire hunting law was being transformed would have been nice if it had come in then. As I said, the amendments were tabled, unfortunately they did not please the rapporteur. Nevertheless, we are not opposed to the directions, except for what I said in the minority opinion. Our Fraction will remain in the vote and we look forward to the comprehensive regulatory concept with great interest. Let's hope we get to know him as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-357	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Bajány.
u2015-04-13-358	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, With regard to the bill, I would like to note that, as some of my fellow Members have mentioned before me, I have tabled an amendment with my fellow Members in MSZP, because we would like it either above the size of a given area, or if the gene pool justifies it, then the use of a professional hunter with a higher education degree in a given area is also required by the legislation. During the Commission's debates, both the Secretary of State and the experts in the field of agriculture have shown their position that the use of hunters with a higher education qualification has not been prohibited, and therefore they do not believe that this should be included in the legislation. In our view, this would have been justified either in order to protect wildlife, wildlife or wildlife in a professional way. [[22.30]] Of course, as I said, we accept the position that this leaves us in a minority. What we are writing for the benefit of the legislation or the draft legislation, let us say, is that the rules for the collision between the wild and the motor vehicle would now be soothed. After all, last year's amendment put motorists in a less favourable position, especially those who encountered savages. The current amendment would restore the original order, which is more favourable to motorists. We think that this is the right thing to do, so we will probably support the bill tomorrow. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-13-359	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. It says no. Then let me tell you that the decisions will take place on the second day of our meeting. Next up is the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission was made in T/3785. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Agriculture T3785/12. and T/3785/13. was given to them. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Sustainable Development as a committee on the debate T/3785/14. and T/3785/15. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3785/17. T/3785/18. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. In doing so, I give the floor to Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-04-13-360	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/3785 on 2 April 2015. the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. The Committee presented a bill amending the Act and a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour, with 6 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, on the one hand, and the legislative committee's own motion on the other. The legislative committee's own motion improves the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture, but I must draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the support for the simultaneous amendment of the two committees would lead to a lack of coherence. Therefore, as has been said at the committee's meeting, we support the legislative committee's proposal for a comprehensive amendment by calling for a proposal from the Committee on Agriculture. With regard to the content of the amendment, I would point out that by adopting it, we can establish the legal basis for not exercising the right to fish for a long time in the registered fish management water area where the right to fish management is not granted to the Hungarian State because of the provisions of the law, but because of the lack of interest of owners or the inadequacy of owners, and the possible conflict between them, the State will take over the decision to exercise the right to fish management in order to protect fish stocks in the water area in the future. Another important change compared to the original proposal is that no distinction should be made between the two recreational activities, fishing and recreational fishing as regards the exemption from the payment of the State ticket fee for persons over 70 years of age. One of the aims of the version contained in the summarised amendment proposal is to establish a system of procedures adapted to practical aspects and to significantly reduce the administrative burden for customers. In the case of new types of DC power gears, the annual contact protection review is not technically justified or the frequency of the two-yearly frequency will be consistent with the duration of the Nébih registration and the ministerial authorisation. Finally, I would like to point out from the amendments that it is necessary to provide the Minister of Agriculture with the possibility to use this resource to improve the management of fish in the case of income in the form of a property management fee instead of a lease for a special purpose management water. There was no debate at the committee meeting on the professional proposal. I would ask my fellow Members to support this in the final vote. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-13-361	Thank you. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[No signal.]] Secretary of State says no. No rapporteur was set up by the designated Agriculture Committee. I now give the floor to the minority opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development relating to the debate to Mr Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-04-13-362	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Committee for Sustainable Development, obviously due to its activity and approach, did not just take into account social aspects during the hearing. In a number of cases, I would also like to talk about the activities aimed at preserving the fishing prehistoric occupation associated with Hungary's history, which is an approach, even if it is not completely weeded out of the current draft legislation of Hungarian culture, but after it ceases as a commercial activity and appears as a recreational fishing activity, which is why we have some concerns. Obviously, it is very easy to support this kind of amendment politically, as we are talking about only a few hundred fishermen compared to 300 000 sports fishing, and the fishing practices in Hungary have also differed considerably during the application. We have heard from many natural waters that fishermen are real fishwolves, well above sustainability levels, with prohibited means and large quantities of fish, but the same concerns arise in many cases also in the case of sport fishing activities. As a result, since everything depends on what kind of man does this activity, whether he is a decent, good man, who respects the law, or someone who crushes them with his feet, we do not think it is appropriate to distinguish between the two means of profit, fishing and fishing. Obviously, this meant not only protecting the role of fishing in traditional Hungarian culture, but also talking about the fact that there are fish species that raise ecological problems in the growth of natural waters. The removal of large plankton eaters from natural waters cannot be achieved by sport fishing tools. Therefore, it would obviously be justified to maintain certain forms of fishing, but if we are already keeping it, it is not reasonable that their commercial use should not be feasible. This is mainly because, as I said, many aspects of such legislation need to be considered, and we are very concerned that natural aquatic fish may disappear from the gastronomic offer in Hungary by adopting this legislation. Respecting the government's right to do so, we can clearly express our concerns that this may not be the luckiest solution. For all these reasons, we have expressed our minority opinion, with which we have remained on our own in the committee, and I wanted to say this here. The majority supported the draft legislation and supported this sports-based legislative amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-363	Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. In this context, I give the floor first to MEP Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-04-13-364	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I'd like to split this draft into two parts. On the one hand, there is a part that requires a normal majority, and there is also a two-thirds amendment. I'll explain why I thought this split-up was important here. Overall, I can tell you that the logic that we started here a few years ago in relation to fishing, in connection with the fishing and fishing debate, is supported by Jobbik. We believe that we really need to focus more on fishing, and that legislation should support Hungary's use of its talents and turn this country into a fishing paradise, bringing with it many tourists, guest nights and many other rural opportunities. [[22.40]] I think that in fishing, you should be able to provide the opportunities that my colleague Sallai, who spoke to me before, said, that is to say, there are areas where keeping invasive alien fish under control, reducing it with fishing solutions cannot be imagined, and fishing may remain necessary. Or perhaps we should mention the traditional, ancient Hungarian fishing methods that I think it is important to maintain, and not in such a way that we lock them in a museum and show them the tools, but it would be good to have some skilled, real fishermen in this country, and in this way this occupation would continue, at least on the level that they could demonstrate how our ancestors have done this activity for many hundreds of years. It was one of the amendments that went through, and thank you for your constructive standing on the amendments. I believe that we have made this proposal better, and I hope that it will remain so in the final vote. However, I would like to mention two of my amendments, which I would also like to lobby here in hindsight. On the one hand, I wanted to include people with disabilities so that they could benefit from immunity when buying a public fishing ticket. As I recall, the original proposal narrows it down to the blind and weak-sighted. We wanted every disabled person to receive this concession; I think it would be a very nice, fair gesture from the government. I also smuggled our 40-plus proposal into the amendments. Jobbik would like to make it possible for men to retire after forty years of employment, and in this way I wanted to make it a little extra to apply to the state fishing ticket, i.e. after forty years of employment, it will be free of charge, because today, it is tied to an age and I wanted to change this. So I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to these amendments once again, and I would like them to be included in the amendment that has been adopted. As I said, overall, the legislation should be supported. Here I would like to refer to the two-thirds majority in a half sentence: it amends the basic law. Jobbik had serious problems with the Fundamental Law, because we tabled a lot of - I don't know how many - amendments that we wanted to improve the Fundamental Law. We were also hoping that the government side would be interested in giving support not only to our country's one-party Fundamental Law, but also to achieving greater social respect if not only the government side had supported it, but also, let's say, Jobbik could have supported it. In this way, unfortunately, it is not now possible to remedy the serious shortcomings of the Fundamental Law and to re-submit the right amendments, since it has opened a very narrow part of it. So for that reason in the two-thirds part, I think we're only going to be able to offer one stay. And the normal half, of course, is supported by Jobbik, as I have said, because this draft is professionally forward-looking, and we have this direction in mind, and that is what we consider to be important. I'd just like to ask the Secretary of State three quick questions, which I'd like you to answer. In the general debate, I asked about the problem of sturgeons, which is that these large fish have not been able to swim to the Szigetköz, Tiszahat, for several years now because of the Iron Gate. This is serious national economy, natural damage to Hungary. Has there been progress in this regard, negotiations? This is an international issue, and the Hungarian governments, the current Hungarian governments, have so far been very silent about it, they have always said how serious this is, while this could be solved with a fish staircase. There are countless examples and countless technologies in the world about how this can be resolved. It would be very good, I would very much like it if we could live to see these multi-magic fish appear again in Hungary, and in spring they can lay eggs in Hungary. I would also like to ask you about the pattern project on Cape Management, which was called off when József Ángyán was practically hated out of your ranks because he told the truth on many issues. Then the sample project, which was already started orally here, was stopped, and I understand that there may have been a government decision to start the management of degrees in a sample area, and we are trying to see that under the circumstances of the present time, the XXI. In the 20th century, at the present time in agriculture, how it can be used, how it can be understood, and how it might be possible to re-introduce this degree of farming in some specific areas, because it was a well-functioning agricultural form in our country for centuries. And the question of the Hungarian fish - speaking of which - we would like to have an answer to the question of the government's proposal for a concrete solution that the Hungarian fish should once again fulfil its old role, which has also been there for many centuries. Here I think that fish as food was present in the daily life of the Hungarian people a few decades before, but much earlier, at a much more serious level. There are estimates that say that the main part of the average Hungarian protein intake was the fish, by the way. We know what the health impact of this would otherwise be, how positive this would be, and not to mention that I believe that the Hungarian freshwater fish has every opportunity to get back to this level again, because our talents are sufficient to produce many and large quantities of fish again in Hungary. It is a sad fact that the Hungarian people consume fish well below the European average; in this connection, we have long been waiting for a comprehensive marketing solution that would raise the attention of the Hungarian people and draw attention to the Hungarian fish again. I know that these three last questions do not belong to this legislation and should not be dealt with by this legislation, but I have asked the Secretary of State so many times that we should try to move forward in these matters and try to find an answer, because I think all three issues are important and are somehow linked to fish. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-365	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-04-13-366	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I continue around where my Hungarian fellow Member left off, because the Hungarians' consumption of fish is not only low, but the worst in Europe: an average Hungarian citizen consumes 4 to 4.5 kilos of fish every year, achieving the worst result. Obviously, taking into account the amount of our natural waters, the fact that we are a sub-water country and the second largest water flow river in Europe passes through the country, this is very difficult to manage, especially when considering the amount of fish recipes that are linked to natural aquatic fish in the Hungarian gastronomic supply. So obviously, this attitude affects our opinion, which I would not like to repeat, because I have also said my party's position in the minority position of the Committee on Sustainable Development. All I would like to say is that, overall, the May Other Politics is open to the fact that sustainable land use is used for people's livelihoods, housing, management at the site of natural resources and livelihoods. It follows from this that, in addition to fishing exploitation, we see a right to fish exploitation, but it is very, very important to take into account how Hungary's fish fauna has evolved in the last 150 years and in the last 30 years. Obviously, the expansion of the adventive species, the fact that virtually the vicarian species replace each other in the river, and fauna-alien species appear by crowding out the native species, is the result of poor fish management and poor water management, in which there would be a number of opportunities for Hungary. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar also mentioned the degree of management, and obviously means of land use such as the possibility of degree management would create a lot of other additional opportunities, for example, in addition to the activities of the rehabilitation of the deadlands - which has often been mentioned in connection with the further development of the Vásárhelyi plan - the restoration of the floodland orchard system, the much higher capacity of water storage, and the utilisation of the lowland water base, in addition to creating an opportunity for fishing exploitation to serve to preserve Hungary's fish fauna. Obviously, if the government can't control fishing, if it doesn't have an apparatus and there is no political intention that the exploitation in this area will be carried out at an appropriate level and the legislation will be enforced, it will be easier to ban fishermen, but we would rather go in the direction that it would be good if the legislation provided for the maintenance of indigenous Hungarian occupations that help families to live, and the possibility of maintaining family generations. I trust that Secretary of State Bitay will take account of the political outcome of the ruling party's conviction that we should lean towards a more solid residence instead of the full gender, which will partly respect the professional efforts that the Head of Department of the Ministry of Agriculture said, as he said would be a means of improving ecological status in the longer term. [[22.50]] But obviously we do not see the means of this now, we do not yet see that this is pointing in that direction. In fact, since it does not provide sufficient opportunities for this method of recovery to restore our overturned fish tree, we believe that this is still a bit contrary to the goals that the FM has said. They would be very, very pleased if the professional views expressed by the Secretary of State Bitay and represented by the Head of Department were to be achieved, but at the moment, the codified version of the legislation before us, in our opinion, is not for this purpose at present. We hope that later we will have the opportunity to exchange ideas in the efforts to restore Hungary's fisheries management, and we can change the practice that is bringing sport fishing exploitation forward at such a high level. And since there are obviously serious economic aspects of sport fishing exploitation, I must point out that, in these economic aspects, over-use or poor fish management can be achieved as well, and I am now saying, or asking Mr Secretary of State that the government's eyes be on model areas such as Lake Tisza, where full use for sport has started at the earliest, raise it there, because with continuous monitoring and biological research, it is already possible to examine the fish-faunistic changes caused by exclusive use for sports fishing. I would also like to thank you for what the government was able to support as one of my only amendments, which also served to promote research. And we are confident that the rest of our amendments may still appear in a later legislation. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-13-367	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Bajány.
u2015-04-13-368	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I will be significantly shorter: the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the bill. Thank you.
u2015-04-13-369	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to comment on the debate. [[On Dr. Bitay's mark, Márton Örs:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place on the second day of our meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of state land assets and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The submission was made in T/3788. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Agriculture T/3788/6. and T/3788/7. was given to them. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Sustainable Development as a committee on debate T/3788/8. and T/3788/9. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3788/11. and the summary report is T/3788/12. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. In this context, I give the floor to Tuzson Bence, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-04-13-370	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The Legislative Committee discussed T/3788. It also adopted the summary amendment, with 23 yes, 7 no and 2 abstentions, and, obviously, it also voted in the same way on the summary report. The amendment included, on the one hand, an amendment by the Committee on Agriculture and, on the other, a number of other amendments. The motion of the Committee on Sustainable Development came before the Legislative Committee, but this motion was not supported by the Committee. On the one hand, the amendment also dealt with linguistic and interpretation issues, but also contains provisions on social cooperatives, namely the obligations of the land user. It is clear that in these cases, the land user uses public land, and accordingly, his licence is about a preferential use, so it is worth regulating his rights and obligations. Obviously, it is important for the user of the earth to ensure the proper use of the land, the protection and preservation of the soil during this use. At the committee meeting, it was also suggested that there was a paragraph to this proposal which I proposed to leave under Article 9. According to Paragraph 4 of the Act, certain organisations would have been allowed to maintain an autonomous economic unit, but the general government law already has provisions in this regard, and it is worth taking into account the previous provisions, and it is not worth making specific clauses, since in these cases it allows organisations to have an autonomous management unit as a general rule, and there is no particular reason to extend it in such a way that, given the scope and nature of the activity, we allow smaller such organisations to set up an autonomous management unit. So I suggested - and this was accepted by the committee - that we apply the general rule here too. The Committee on Sustainable Development has also made proposals in this regard, but its proposals were not supported by the Legislative Committee, as they would have covered very important elements of the proposal and would have been rejected, since one of the most important parts of this proposal is the development of a single ownership right. In Hungary, in the case of public property, and there should be no double, different practices, even different professional skills, behind this practice there must be a uniform contract system and contractual practice. Accordingly, it is worth creating a system where public land is treated uniformly in Hungary. Appropriate guarantees should also apply. Of course, in addition to unity, professional competence must obviously also increase. In a single system, the exploitation of state land can work better than in a fragmented system. Accordingly, the Legislative Committee adopted its decision and proposed to Parliament that it adopt the legislation in accordance with the summarised amendment or the summary report. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-04-13-371	The minority opinion will now be presented for a maximum period of seven minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény.
u2015-04-13-372	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In the Legislative Committee there was indeed a polarity about the bill, but this is no surprise, as opposition parties have already said in the general debate on the bill that we have a problem with this draft legislation. My fellow Member Mr Tuzson said that the essence of this draft legislation is to implement a common management practice for state land. And we have a completely different view on this, and we believe that the government has not given up its intention to take the land that belongs to their management from national parks. Thus, the elimination of the independent economic activity of national parks is a reality. So far, national parks have been hit with a 40-percent budget withdrawal, and now they're taking the land away from them. We believe that this is a case law that cannot be supported or even raised against it. And we are living with the suspicion that these lands will go back to your fidesz buddies in one way or another. So we think we're gonna witness another turn of the dirt dog. And, as Mr Tuzson said, in the Committee on Sustainable Development, the amendments that were then rejected in the Committee on Legislative Affairs were adopted with the votes of pro-government and Fidesz MEPs, and in advance in the Committee on Agriculture. But I could also mention the National Sustainable Development Council, led by Speaker László Kövér, which also spoke against and opposed the draft legislation, so that we do not adopt this bill. [[23.00]] I think that professional organisations and, of course, nature conservation organisations have done the same. I think that both opposition parties, all these professional organisations and civil society organisations should be heard by the government and heard by the wallet. We will not be able to support this draft legislation in any way, and we would therefore propose that the wallet or government withdraw this initiative, this draft. Of course, we do not have any illusions, I think, as has been the case, not listening to the opposition, so let's just say that the government has always made up its mind on issues relating to state land wealth, so that is probably what will happen now, but, of course, our souls will rest if we can say so. Thank you.
u2015-04-13-373	I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: No, thank you.]] The Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Agriculture Committee. I give the floor to Jenő Manninger, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development in this debate.
u2015-04-13-374	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I present the majority opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development received a majority vote. T/3788 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of state land assets. Having examined bill No 44 of the Rules of the House, the Committee on Sustainable Development concluded at its meeting on 23 March that it would comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The bill aims to ensure that all state-owned land, regardless of whether it is a protected area, is subject to the ownership rights of the National Land Fund Management Organisation. The government's aim is to achieve a uniform ownership right for state-owned land and to exploit state land in line with uniform exploitation principles. T/3877/3 supported by the Committee and T/3788/4. In contrast, the proposed amendments do not aim at transferring the trust rights of state land protected by nature protection from national park directorates to the National Land Fund Management Organisation. Thank you.
u2015-04-13-375	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, who will present the Commission's minority opinion.
u2015-04-13-376	It was only a minority opinion in some respects, because I was in the lucky position in my parliamentary career for the first time in a year that we were on the same footing as the ruling parties, and it was uplifting that, together with the pro-government amendment, we had adopted the possibility of preventing this legislation that would destroy nature protection and facilitate the roll-out of state land. Obviously, between the two amendments tabled by my pro-government colleague, Mr János Bencsik, Vice-President, and what István Ikotity and István have tabled, there was only a slight difference in content, but the aim would have been to prevent both of them from taking place on the agricultural estates affecting national parks that the government intends to implement. Obviously, these arguments, which have already been made here in the debate, and which Mr Tuzson has also said, have been recognised there as a position of the government, and we have also found that these are completely unacceptable arguments, and that these are not justified professionally. I would like to respond to my fellow Member Mr Tuzson when presenting my party's position, because the Commission's meeting on the impossibility of achieving a common exploitation practice was about the fact that it was not possible to apply the same practice as, say, intensive arable crops, where the state clearly implements the management of state wealth in the way that it is most effective and wise for the state on the basis of its own concept, but because one of the protected areas is a nature protection law and the NFA law applies to non-protected areas, it must be implemented with a fundamentally different approach. These arguments were virtually rejected and the Committee supported the two amendments, with pro-government support, which were aimed at weeding out elements from the legislative amendment proposal that would transfer land in the management of national parks to the NFA, with a very small difference. I wish to say that the commission... practically these land-related issues, since they concern national park property management, are basically nature conservation issues. These protected areas are the remaining elements of our country's natural wealth, a multitude of protected and highly protected species protected by national park directorates. This is a professional nature conservation issue, and it is therefore unacceptable for us that the Legislative Committee, overruled by the committee's position, has taken a completely different position, because we obviously feel that this is unacceptable, because it was our task in the committee to examine it professionally, and to serve our nation by adopting the best, most useful amendment that should in principle be our objective. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-13-377	It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Balázs Győrffy, from Fidesz.
u2015-04-13-378	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the amendments received, the draft has changed, but the essence of the concept and its main course of action remain unchanged. For example, the management of the value of NFA's sales valuation for the property subject to the auction has been fine-tuned by a procedural rule. The amended submission states that the parties involved in the enforcement proceedings and in the winding-up proceedings may object to this amount within 8 days of the transmission of the valuation, after which the judicial expert is involved and all of this at the expense of the NFA. On the basis of a proposal from the Committee on Agriculture, the proposal should be accompanied by rules on social cooperatives. In doing so, social cooperatives should only carry on farming which does not jeopardise the productive capacity of the land. Without the consent of the user, or otherwise, the use of the land shall not be allowed to anyone else, nor shall it alter the cultivation of the land. The land may be used only for the purposes specified in the contract. The social cooperative shall comply with the provisions of this Act or the Nature Conservation Authority on land use and shall not engage in any activity which has a negative impact on the state or state of the natural area or endangers the survival of natural values in any way. If the social cooperative infringes these land use obligations despite its written call for use, the exploitation contract may be terminated and even terminated with immediate effect. The amendment was necessary because the law relating to public employment and public employment and amending other laws regulates the essential elements of the land use relationship between the owner and the social cooperative, but does not provide for the obligations of land user who is entitled to the free use of land owned by the state or municipal authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there has been a long polarity here in terms of environmental protection and state land wealth. I am convinced that this kind of management of the state's land assets, which, moreover, means that within a given ministry the same task will be carried out from one State Secretary to the other, will not be a problem, and I believe that the representatives of the governing parties have made it quite clear that the purpose of the legislation is not essentially to destroy the environment that many opposition representatives have considered in the subject, but to pursue a coordinated state wealth policy, which cannot in any way mean that environmental aspects are being pushed into the background, because it has not been and will not be the goal of the governing parties. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-379	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor István Harangozó.
u2015-04-13-380	Thank you, Mr. President. In my opinion, this law is nothing more than the law of unlimited hunger for money and power, of course it is not the only Fidesz law, but a very long line of it could be drawn up, but it is certainly one of these laws. After all, it is a very important pillar of Fidesz's exercise of power that, in exchange for various services, the vast majority of the land in the countryside - either as a payment for a sufficient amount of votes, or as a payment for various mugs, downfalls, corruption transactions, or as an element of fundraising for their corruptly funded campaign - is playing land through an unfair bidding system to his client. [[23.10]] And after this system has worked very well, obviously Fidesz insists on this system, wants to expand and the land to be distributed is running low, so we need to get new lands. What we see now is that the network of national parks is also being consumed by this land hunger. I was very careful to see if I heard any other arguments that could convince me that this was not the case, but I did not hear anything else, and I wrote down the only sentence: to enforce a uniform professionalism. My fellow Member Sallai has already talked about why this is nonsense, and I do not know how you think that you would dare bring such arguments to Parliament in such a far-reaching case. How can we talk about ensuring uniform professionalism in this matter, how can the professional arguments that should now be valid here, or the professionalism that should be enforced, when there are quite different requirements for economic exploitation, where it is important that the land is exploited in an economically sustainable and operational way, perhaps in accordance with land policy guidelines, and that the land is used in accordance with it, and is quite different in the case of natural parks, in the case of nature conservation, where the primary consideration is that natural values are protected and that all other principles are subject to it. This is why these natural parks have been created, because they have the knowledge, and they also have the demarcated area where these aspects should be enforced. Of course, it can be said, as we have heard before, that there is nothing wrong, because then the green authorities will prescribe everything the parks ask for. Only, ladies and gentlemen, the green authorities, all regional green authorities, have been merged into government offices since 1 April. Now, let us imagine how this system will work when, even in the case of independent national park directorates, the Bükk National Park dared to deliver the land to local farmers in the first round of competitions, it was simply destroyed, withdrawn, and, under the direction of the National Land Fund, the land was transferred to farmers or farmers who had not won in the first round of applications, who were practically the clienture or friends of the Secretary of State of Mengyi Roland and András Tállai, under the direction of the National Land Fund. They did this by firing the director of the national park, falsifying the entire tender with the intervention of a lawyer, and they still want to use these lands. We think that if they dared to do this with an organization of their own to remove anyone who wanted to stop this dishonest dirt dog from expressing myself gently, then the unfortunate government officials will dare to defy, say, the pressure of their boss, who hunt together, parlor, share the fidesz goods with the local fidesz powers. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: Thank you! Balázs Győrffy: You don't believe that!]] With the amendment of the law, which we have managed to push through the TAB now, there are other problems, not only is it in general that in the case of national parks they want to destroy the sustainability of national parks with this practice, but also that this regulation is unconstitutional, because it will come back with a protection that has already become a protection for nature. On the basis of an earlier practice of the Constitutional Court, we must state that the withdrawal of such protection is subject to constitutional ban, even in the case of the current Fidesz Fundamental Law, and I believe that the current Fidesz Fundamental Law should exceptionally provide greater protection, but you will be ignoring it. However, I hope that there will be some decent Fidesz Members who will prevent this bill from obtaining a majority together with the opposition. Finally - I do not want to waste much time - I would like to draw your attention to the fact, Mr Secretary of State, honourable Members of the Fidesz, that they do not stick to these lands, do not stick to the lands of the national parks, because if we take them out of the scope of the proposal, there will still be 101,000 hectares of land that the Ministry of Defence has transferred to the National Earth Fund, and the 170,000 hectares that are managed by the EMMI have been added to the National Earth Fund. That's a total of 270,000 acres. I know that you have already promised at least 350 thousand hectares to the brother-in-law-coma-buy, but please settle for this 170 thousand hectares, be this compromise, and you may accept it, and you may be doing good, because here you could make reasonable use of lands that may now be, let's say, less rational use of ministry treatment than a national land-based exploitation, but take your hands away from the lands of the national parks! Thank you so much for listening. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew applauds.]]
u2015-04-13-381	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-04-13-382	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As we have already said in the general debate, compared to the previous laws discussed today, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is saying a very, very strong no here, and we continue to maintain this position, as we also believe that this draft law consists of nothing more than the fact that the lands of the national parks can be played over in a simpler, easier way to the interests to which the state lands have already been transformed. I consider this legislation to be some kind of punishment for national parks, because it is clear that at least the land-leasers of the national parks have seen the light of day, at least we can argue about them here in the House walls, and that is probably why this revenge is towards them, or that is why this amendment is made. Because if it were true that, overall, they were only trying to implement the common practice of asset management, then either the NFA should be abolished, because then the existence of the other organisation is as questionable as the property management rights of national parks are now being lost, or we should simply make a law here, which says that both organisations must act in the same way in these and these matters. Moreover, we have not received any guarantees regarding the protection of nature; we have not received any answers at all to the questions that we, opposition representatives, say most of all, but to the more than a hundred NGOs who have sent their requests and letters to all Members of Parliament and who are also seriously concerned about this legislation. I will go further, even on the part of pro-government representatives, there have been serious concerns, even Mr Speaker has expressed his opinion that he does not support this draft. Tomorrow, we'll be curious, when we have to confess, everyone has to press a button, because we're talking about a two-thirds law on who held up the earlier arguments, and who might have let himself be convinced. So we still do not see the professional guarantees that the nature conservation level, quality and quality can be maintained, and we still do not see the guarantees on what conditions and to whom the national park land that will be leased will be placed, as the experience so far is brutally wrong. Technically, we don't know of any larger public land that couldn't be tied into, and which, if we didn't figure it out, we wouldn't get into a pro-government environment sooner or later, and we wouldn't be able to suspect pro-government aid in the background. I would like to underline here that it is not a matter of having a problem - I have already said this in the general debate - if Fidesz wins the land. Every Hungarian citizen has a right to whom he votes and who he honors with his trust. We have a problem when we do not comply with the specific land policy directives and not with the local family farmers, but with a much wider circle, at least wider, in the sense that they do not necessarily have to be family farmers, but only if they are friendly with you. Our problem with this proposal is that these national parks, which now lose their right to property management, cannot support this legislation. [[23.20]] I am very sorry that, although Mr Secretary of State has referred to the fact that some national parks have even asked you to make this amendment, they have not stood up and they have not openly expressed their views here, but this, I think, is a good indicator of the country in which we live and how Fidesz exercises power. Therefore, there cannot be any change in the legislation that would make it acceptable. We call on the government to withdraw. There is still a way for you to do that tomorrow, because so far, I believe, from a nature conservation point of view, the national parks have managed these lands correctly, and the professional management and the professional control they are carrying out will ensure that this can continue in the future. There was also no response to the source from which the national parks would replace the significant loss of revenue, how they would continue to carry out their tasks. And the fact that the green authorities have been melted under the government offices can, of course, be regarded as positive, as I have heard the arguments made by the government about why this was important and necessary, but allow me to mention, for example, a completely different area to Mr Secretary of State. During the steps to protect our built heritage, we saw what it meant when the protection of monuments was absorbed under government offices. If I had just told you the example of Győr, they would have destroyed the monument below Dunakapu Square with brutal speed and simplicity and instead of showing it, and Győr could have been the pride of the county seat instead of causing irreversible damage. After the protection of monuments has been destroyed and built under government offices, it is played lightly, and it is feared that the same practice will prevail in the case of green authorities. So from now on, if you are interested in this particular investment, or you feel that it will benefit you, or the company with whom you have a good friendship, then I believe that there will be no obstacle to this particular nature park area, let us say in another way, and to a significant reduction in the former level of protection. For all these reasons, Jobbik is still unable to support this proposal, and we are also asking all the good-hearted pro-government Members to think very carefully whether they are in favour of this bill, because we can cause irreversible damage that we believe will not be proud of for a few years. Therefore, there is still time until tomorrow, think about it, and the one or two votes that will suffice not to go through this two-thirds amendment could greatly contribute to preventing these national park land from being transferred to their own friends. I am also taking the opportunity here to respond to Mr Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, when we will finally have a transparent, clean tender system in Hungary, which could apply uniformly both to areas currently in national park management and to areas already managed by the NFA. In this, however, it would be good to have a unified practice. I am thinking here that an open, transparent system for all should be able to provide redress, and then I think that there would be no such abuse; which is already being harassed by Kehi, which, I think, shows well that if they can give the truth to the losers at this level in a few cases, it shows well what abuse might still be in the background. In particular, considering that Kehi was already able to investigate only in a limited number of specific contracts. I'm guessing you've also predicted what they are where you might not find more serious abuse. So for all these reasons, we are strongly protesting against the adoption of this legislation, and we are really asking all the good-hearted pro-government Members to think about whether it is worth playing our future by tomorrow, to play our nature reserves just to serve them with the few dude lands. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-383	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-04-13-384	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am very disappointed, by the way, that debate really feels so unworthy. I didn't think a government claiming to be national would do this to our national heritage. Congressman Tuzson, I understand you've been dealing with public life for 25 years. I saw on posters out in the capital that he was coming to give the Roxette concert to Hungary, right, 25 years ago, this Fidesz listen to your heart! I find it very difficult to believe that, listening to the Fidesz ranks of Members with a similar intelligence, the National Council for the Environment, which is the advisory body of the Ministry of the Environment, said that this is not good; that the National Sustainable Development Council chaired by László Kövér, which is such an advisory body of the National Assembly, said that it will be very unfortunate; that the Committee for Sustainable Development of the majority of your most professionally prepared representatives said that it is not, so it will not be good; that 170 NGOs have protested, among them the best, the best experts have been recruited; that your mailbox has also been presumed to have received thousands of e-mails in the matter of how citizens view of this legislation; that the current ombudsmanship of future generations has clearly said that it was a constitutional breacher, and that it is likely that the nature's conservation policy has a bearing on its risks. And your legislative committee is going to sweep all this off the table and tell you that you know it better. I do not know where the humility that Prime Minister is talking about here on several occasions, where is the professionalism that is sometimes mentioned. Every professional organization, anything that's on your side, and it's representing you, they're sweeping everyone's opinion down, and they're saying that you can do better than that. It's totally unacceptable! I have obviously referred to the impossibility of a single treatment in the minority opinion, but I cannot ignore the fact that I do not wish to make malicious assumptions as to why this land, this almost 300 thousand hectares of land, is still needed, but let me say that the national rural strategy you have adopted has set the objective of increasing this land, the land in the management of national parks. This has been adopted by your government, or by the second Orbán government, as an objective, and obviously, everything is going in the opposite direction. So we think it's totally unacceptable. I've given up being able to convince you with professional arguments any way I can, because if you're better than me, academics who sit in the O.K.T. and don't accept it, then I don't have a chance to convince you because you can't accept it. I do not want to hold you back because I have already given my opinion in the various debates, in general, in a detailed debate. Our party really only summarized its opinion in a few words. These few words, even if you'll allow me, I'll tell you. A few words: insanity, insanity, insanity, insolence, debauchery, debauchery, deception, folly, dishonesty, stupidity, obsceneness, obscenity, dishonesty, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, immorality, insanity, irrationality, half-witness, half-witness, obsceneity, filth, insanity, insanity, insolence, insolence, insolence, insolence, insolence, insinuation, insolence, insinuation, insolence, insinuation, insinuity, insinuity, insinuity, insinuation, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, insanity, indisctitude, insidity, indiscency, indiscency, insidity, inconcency, indiscency, indiscency, indiscency, indiscency, insidity, indiscency, inconcency, inconcency, obtation, obtacy, obtacy, obtacy, obtacy, obtacy, obsity, obscacy, obscacy, folly, obscacy, obacy, stupidity, stupidity, obacy, follyity, follyity, follyity, follyity, follyity, foolishnessity, follyity, follyity, follyity, follyity, foolishnessity, foolishnessity, folly, folly, folly, foolishnessity, stupidity, stupidity, foolishnessity, stupidity, folly, folly, stupidity, folly, folly, folly, folly, folly, folly, folly, folly, folly, folly, folly, folly, obscacy, obscacy, obsensity, obsensity, obsensity, obacy, obsensity, obsensity, obsensity, I wanted to summarize our party's position in these words, because in our opinion it is theft of public property, the seizure of public property, the destruction of nature protection, the inability of national parks and the endangering of our natural heritage. For these reasons, our party does not support the draft legislation you have tabled, and we can only trust that the brave ones from your ranks who voted for the amendments from the Committee on Sustainable Development will continue to uphold their professional opinion tomorrow, and that the party discipline and sheep perception will not rule, but that there may still be conscientious people who respect national parks that preserve the natural wealth of our country. I would like to ask all opposition parties not to support this draft legislation in any way - and I apologise, including from independent parties - because this is totally unacceptable. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-13-385	I now give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy.
u2015-04-13-386	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would not think of reopening the debate that we have had on this subject, whether within Parliament or on committee or on radio. I think it's more of an emotional issue than we can convince each other here with professional arguments. But I do not really understand why our fellow opposition Members think that the dismantling of the national park system, the elimination of protected values, would be a political goal for us. [[23.30]] What interest would you have in that? Nothing at all, so there's no such purpose behind it. This certainly was not in the mind of any of us when we expressed any views on this subject. You say that the fundamental purpose of this is to distribute the land promised to the brothers-in-laws and lads in this way, as Congressman Bellozó said. Ladies and gentlemen, Assuming, but not allowing, that is indeed the goal, this is not necessary, since a practice applied by the NFA has so far been carried out in a very similar way in the case of national parks. So that's not an argument for what you're bringing up here as an accusation against us. Uniform management, ladies and gentlemen, does not mean that it is not possible to enforce professional arguments in the case of agricultural land now in the management of national park assets. In fact, it's necessary. That's what I think. This is not included in the legislation that it will not be possible to apply it later. I wouldn't go into politics here. I think that these sentences are rather false from Congressman Bellozó, since you have not promised the land to the brothers-in-laws, but have distributed them with a thousand hectares. [[Dr. Gábor Harangozó István intervenes.]] [[Dr. Gábor Harangozó István intervenes.]] Let's not get into this. I do not want to push this story in this direction (Dr. Gábor Harangozó István intervenes.) 'Cause that's not what this is about. Although that's the direction you'd like to push it all away. It's not that, but if I were your faction, I'd be more careful about this, because in 2010 the contracts were extended by a thousand hectares, as to what kind of brother-in-law relationship there was, I'd let you do that. Let us not forget that, by the way, state land ownership is 10 percent of the Hungarian land ownership, and what percentage of the programme is a problem for the farmers, the problem, the number of people who regularly visit the press would be a single-digit amount. So I think we're talking about tuning up a few cases here. However, I should be careful to note that most of these problems, what God gives, have failed at the lands in NFA wealth management. So, if we could interpret this solution in this way, we would like to improve legally accuracy solutions, then it might be worth entrusting another public body instead of a legally not always perfectly acting body. I think it is important to emphasise that each body is under the supervision of the same Ministry. Let me add, however, that I have written this down to myself, let me add this much more: because of the transformation of the pre-emptive system, national parks will now not only have the opportunity, but will also have capital through the NFA, not only intellectual but also financial capital, so that the proportion of land with state-owned natural value will increase. I think they should also be weighed. I congratulate my fellow Member Sallai, who, I believe, has read a synonymous dictionary, but I do not think that this should be treated with such theatrical scenes. I understand you're not going to support this, I think, for basically emotional reasons, because you're going to be able to strike again at what kind of land ownership policy this crappy ruling party is pursuing, which, by the way, I'm convinced is in the interests of the countryside. My problem with all this is that they are trying to shift this debate to a level that is not otherwise included in the government's objectives, and that was not what motivated the government in terms of legislation. However, I ask you - although I have reservations about this - to consider and support this legislation tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-13-387	There will be very short speeches. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek gets the floor in 15 seconds.
u2015-04-13-388	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to offer Mr Balázs Győrffy that I would very much like to explain once again what the professional excuse is. The KDNP hasn't spoken in three hours. In any case, it's been time. Secretary Bitay has been sitting here for three hours. He hasn't spoken. Give me time, and I'd be happy to repeat the arguments that you might understand. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-389	A longer speech is now possible. Congressman Zsolt Legány has the floor.
u2015-04-13-390	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Győrffy, mentioned that he does not understand why we are making the sentences that we are saying and that he does not understand why you think this was necessary at the time, as we see it. We believe it is precisely for the tens of thousands of hectares that are being brought into the National Land Fund and these lands are being taken away from national parks. As I said, the government is taking these lands away from national parks. By the way, I think the problem with this step is not only that national parks, let's say economically impossible, but also that, let's say, valuable jobs are being put at risk, for example, in remote areas, areas, regions such as Aggtelek or the Guard or even Hortobágy. We do know that the NFA land lease application system is still opaque, even in the Prime Minister's words. Instead of the government drawing up an objective and transparent system, it will now involve new land in the farmhouse system. We think that's the problem, and that's the problem with it, basically, because we're seeing the possibility that this land will go back to fidesz buddies. Thank you.
u2015-04-13-391	Now it's Congressman Tuzson Bence.
u2015-04-13-392	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Let's not mix things up with each other. Who and what are two different questions. So if we are talking about what legislation should be kept, it is one question and the other question is who should keep these laws. It is obvious - and this proposal is not, by the way - that legislation on the protection of nature must be respected in cases where it is not the property of the State, but also in the case of the property of the State, regardless of who exercises asset management as a technical issue in this respect. If a private owner has land in a national park, he must also comply with certain restrictions on preserving natural values. The same is true in the case of the State, so the same rules apply to it. It is a technical issue, by the way, and it can be said that in some respects it is a strange question that it is placed in such a level of legislation, who, by the way, is carrying out certain matters concerning the management of assets on the side of the state, who is the professionally supervising one. Uniform management of assets by the State does not mean that in all cases the same legislation must be complied with. That's not what it means. Obviously, in the event that there are additional obligations, all contractual conditions, the creation of contracts must also be taken into account in this part, while the uniform treatment can, on the one hand, develop a better legal practice and, accordingly, establish procedures for the management and exploitation of state property for citizens and the Hungarian State, which are much more useful. This also applies to all natural areas, but this does not affect the need to preserve natural values. Who is the trustee of a land - and I must point out this misunderstanding or perhaps a slippage in this regard, because the fact that the national park is not the trustee of a land does not mean that we highlight certain areas from the national park. That's still in the national park. Accordingly, it will continue to be subject to the same conservation rules. So who and what are two different concepts, and it is not worth mixing them with each other. What, what rules must be followed, can be discussed, but who has to be followed cannot be asked, because everyone who operates in this area has to be respected, regardless of which body of the State, which trustee, or even if it is not the State at all, but private individuals, because, let's say, private individuals own land in the same area. So these are separate issues, but they are very important issues, and it is not good to mix them with each other. Thank you very much for the floor. [[23.40]]
u2015-04-13-393	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar in ten seconds.
u2015-04-13-394	Thank you. I just want to point out that when Fidesz and the MSZP are criticizing each other with dirt dogs, they're both right. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-395	Thank you for your comment. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bellozó.
u2015-04-13-396	Thank you. Somehow, I would like to respond to Balázs Győrffy that after the 12 stolen state economies, I think it should be a little more modest, because I don't usually sit with Sándor Csányi, do I, my friend Lőrinc Mészáros, or Zsolt Nyerges I didn't write out 1,400 acres of land for the last few years, which I suddenly, after fighting with the business partner, immediately take away from him. So let's leave this part alone. As far as the substance is concerned, I think it would be important for as many family farmers as possible to have land. There's a lot more people to land than before. I agree with this objective. [[Balázs Győrffy: Why didn't you do that?]] I do not agree with this title being abused, and my friends, not small family farmers, but large influential, fidesz land- and power-distributors and local small kings are being distributed to share in the region what they can live from, and those who are left out can go on as maids through community service. We are speaking against this, and we are protesting that this is the case with nature protection. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-04-13-397	Ladies and gentlemen, We're running out of time, but I'm gonna ask if anyone else wants to comment on the debate. [[For signal:]] It is not possible to make a two-minute comment, and I would like to say to Congressman that if you press another button, I will give you the word in a normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy.
u2015-04-13-398	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, My fellow bellman is arguing with statistics about how much land the farmers have in the programme for small and medium-sized farms and how much the large ones have. [[Gábor István Bellozó: That's okay!]] Mathematics is a pretty exact thing, so it's hard to argue with them. [[István Gábor Bellozó: I am not arguing with this!]] Congressman, do you represent the family economy? Aren't you ashamed? ! You've had amnesia here lately? So what did you do in the period 2002-2010? [[István Gábor Bellozó intervenes.]] My fellow Member, whose government representative was it who said that the village was a feudal legacy? Who was that? Obviously, it would be nice to forget about it and undo it. Obviously the most practical solution for the MSZP now is to try to pin the mud on my own political opponent, and obviously Jobbik will applaud all of this, and now I'm sorry, it would be foolish not to take advantage of this opportunity. But just because the MSZP is throwing dirt at us doesn't mean we're under no obligation to accept that we did it ourselves because it didn't. Who made maids? Mr. Congressman, your political predecessors, who, to this day, are the property beneficiaries, were the ones who, by the way, created a system of dotes in this country and destroyed the Hungarian countryside. So you should be ashamed of this speech. [[Gábor István Bellozó: I do not have oligarch friends! Intercoms.]]
u2015-04-13-399	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] If not, the debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, if you would like to comment. [[For signal:]] He said yes. Mr. Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2015-04-13-400	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Well, what can I say, there's no improvement in the knowledge of the law. [[Demercation and intervention in the ranks of opposition parties. Sallai R. Benedict: I predicted you'd say that! Dr. Wind Bernadett: This isn't a class!]] Although you can easily predict it, Congressman, because you obviously know how unprepared you are in these matters, it is therefore clear that this will be the result. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] After listening to you respectfully, many of your mistakes, I would like to ask you to listen to me, too. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] As long as the Rules of Procedure require me to tell you what you said. One of the most important facts is that the National Land Fund has more protected natural areas than national parks. I don't remember LMP ever saying it was a problem. I ask why it is a problem that, if we talk about a single asset management, there will be more protected natural areas, if any. 'Cause if you've been attacking me so far, Congressman, or anyone else, that's not okay, then I'm saying it's a consistent, logical position. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Give me time and I'll tell you.]] But it did not occur to you, my dear Member, nor in the general debate when you had a time frame, nor in the detailed debate did you mention the fact that there are much more protected natural areas than the ten national parks. As they forgot to mention, a potom has 250,000 hectares of protected natural space in private. I would like to ask what is the position of the Members of the opposition on this matter. Maybe we should revisit them for the state, or what's your idea? [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] The reason why you do not attack these areas, dear Member - and here is the dissonance between your actions and your words - is because you know exactly how the Nature Conservation Act determines how these areas should be managed, not the trust agreement, not the owner of ownership rights, because this is also a bit of a sham dispute, because the National Land Fund exercises the ownership rights of all Hungarian state land, more precisely the owner of all state land is the National Land Fund, so it is not up to the trust law - and you know exactly how the area is exploited, and how we use it, but it depends on nature protection regulations. By the way, protected natural areas owned or managed by the National Land Fund - which has never been mentioned before that there is any problem with this - are subject to the nature conservation rules and their management by national parks. In fact, they're checking it out. There wouldn't be any change in this either, just that that set would grow. By the way, I would like to remind you, if I may put it this way, that the law is 32 sections. A small part of the 32 sections is what happens, by the way, to the trust rights of national park land. I could also say that I can only thank Mr Bellozó in that he remembered that about 90 percent of this law has a completely different content than what you are constantly eating here, and that, by the way, they all have important roles in the management of the single state land. Therefore, the statements made in the detailed and general debate, and what you have listed here, I would not repeat it now, because obviously you are not arguing with me, but with the facts, and I do not wish to convince you that two plus two is four. If that's how you count, then that's the result, and if you're not willing to do the addition correctly, then I'm asking you to do it in vain. However, I would like to respond to some of the little things that have been raised in the debate. Mr Zoltán Magyar mentioned the loss of revenue. I would like to remind you of the law 23. In the written text of this law, the National Land Fund transfers the rent revenues to the national parks, in Hungarian: in relation to the law, there is not a single penny in the written text of this law, which would reduce any revenue from the national parks. At the end of the Member's speech, he said that when there will finally be a single, transparent tender system. But in the beginning, he criticized the fact that he should not be united, and others said that he should not be united, and I agree with you; I do not think that he should be united, because the nature conservation rules, as has been before, will not be determined by the NFA, because he is not competent, but by the national parks and the nature conservation rules. So from this point of view, there can be no debate between us. With regard to transparency, I would like to remind you that about a dozen lawsuits have been closed in four to five years, what is transparent, what is not, and very interesting, otherwise contradictory judgments have been issued, one said that this part is still public and that it is no longer public. The other court ruling was the other way round, but finally the Hungarian court system managed to establish a single position, and the NFA operates on this basis. So what has to be transparent is no longer a question, because, if you like it, I would say you were sued out of the NFA, which does not have to be transparent, and the court said that it was very right, and you didn't have to. I'm not saying it as an excuse, just for the record, that it shows that it wasn't so obvious what was going on in the public eye and what wasn't. But he's just banging the door here, and there's no question about what's going on in public, and what's not to be treated publicly. Mr Gábor Bellozó mentioned some large businessmen, snippets, football matches, who also live in agriculture. Well, I'm sorry, I'd just like to say that, say, Mr. Leisztinger, I'd like to suggest to you that you're not used to seeing him in our moonyard, perhaps even in football matches, and a few thousand, I'm not mistaken, but I don't know by my head, the number of acres he's been lucky enough to win during your reign is more than ten thousand. [[23.50]] He hasn't been able to show this since 2010, let alone show the same size overall, but not even in pieces. And by the way, I'd like to draw your attention to something else. I also find it unfair to talk about the privatisation of public economies in the context of this law, because it does not belong here. You belong to the younger generation, as I do, but we know that there were 120 state economies, 12 of which you claim to have been privatized in any way by the first Orbán government. But there's also a little more than a hundred where it wasn't what you suggested. I would like to respond to one more thing that you have said. "We are making this bill-modification proposal," says the entire opposition, "to take the land from national parks, so that we can distribute it to the Fidesz buddies. I'm not happy that you're putting me in this awkward position to tell you this, but at Hortobágy National Park, aren't you exactly the ones attacking by winning Fidesz buddies? I'm sorry, but if the national parks have the land, what about the land, and if the NFA has the land, what about it? Mr Zoltán Magyar also says that in each case - he said so - in all cases some kind of fidesz thread can be seen in action. Well, let's sit down and talk about it sometime. There are seven thousand winners, I wonder how far you'll get. But I'm gonna help you, I'm gonna give you some juice, I'm gonna collect all the troubles from the press. I can show you in a hectar how many places there are debates and numbers. So, all in all, it's a slash, what I feel about the whole law. We are talking about nature conservation issues, although nature conservation and trust rules do not happen to meet in this bill, there is no common set, there is no common intersection that can be debated at all about what is happening in these areas, and what you cannot agree with. In relation to nature protection, I also believe that it is a professional issue, which is why in the current legislative context it is also so that national parks are entitled and obliged to require or control the management of nature conservation in these areas. Concerning the adoption of the law: I am not asking you to adopt this law, because I trust your conscience to accept it or not. I ask you, if you have the opportunity, and you feel that you can move beyond political activity and wish to engage in a professional debate, then let us take these conversations down to professional level and try to determine which paragraph is where, for example, this issue concerns nature conservation rules, because there is no such provision in this law. Otherwise, nearly 300,000 hectares of other agricultural land would be treated in a uniform way, and as the state manages the assets of other real estate in a uniform way, so it makes perfect sense that the land should be treated equally in terms of asset management. Thank you very much for the time frame. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-04-13-401	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place on the second day of our meeting. This brings us to the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Today, Mr Ander Balázs applied for a speech after the agenda:. The government, following the logic of battlefield surgery, finds the region irresistible, has he renounced the infrastructure development of the southern periphery? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-402	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, it has now become official that not only in Somogy County, but also in the South-Transdanubian region, there will be no major road development investment with so-called EU money in this budget cycle, so until the end of 2020. However, transport infrastructure determines the development of some of our regions, competitiveness, employment, quality of life, so transport needs to be developed first, because without it the area is not developing, the economy is not growing, services are not sufficiently accessible and the population is falling. The biggest problem in our area is the problems of the depopulated villages, the small sack settlements that seem unsolvable. The population has grown old, there are many older people, and most of the time, after their deaths, they remain empty, the property belongs to the population. This is due to economic reasons, because young people do not stay in their homes because there is little work, bad infrastructure, difficult access to the Somogy region. The General Assembly of Somogy County recently discussed the development of the M60 road between Szigetvár-Barcs. In its decision of 20 February 2015, the county Parliamentary representatives were invited to take advantage of all forums and opportunities to lobby for the modernisation of Highway 6. I am saddened to do my duty when I convey to you the cry for help of the assembly of Somogya - otherwise a pro-government majority - condemned to second-rate role. Let me therefore refer to what is stated in the letter in question. The southern part of Somogy county, one of the important road elements of the western part of Baranya county, is the section of road number 6 between Barcs-Szigetvár, which is also one of the road connections in Croatia. This is highlighted by the recent meeting of the Mayors of Barcs and the City of Verőce in Croatia, where the local road development was promoted even from the Croatian side. The quality of road 6 cover with the exception of two nodes, according to the national transport infrastructure development strategy, is included in the category "bad', "inappropriate' and "tolerable'. This finding would require action for any route, but in particular for a one-digit road crossing the border, there would be no other justification for the renewal. Unfortunately, government decisions on transport development of the EU cycle do not include the development of road M60 by 2020, and this also presents a ominous vision for us, with the exception of the sections of road 67 avoiding settlements, there is no road development in Somogy at all. However, it is clear to everyone that modern transport infrastructure is essential for territorial development, and this is particularly true for the southern part of Somogy County, which is in decline. Although Secretary of State Becsey announced yesterday a HUF 600 billion national road network development programme, let me remind you of the inflation that has now been experienced in the statements of the Government meeting in Chemistry. From the motorway through the expressway, we quickly reached the reality of the people living here, the renovation, the reinforcement of the hull, and the expansion of the road. But what will become of the failure of living, hardworking, or derailed regime change to become unemployed, but to work with people who want to travel normal, non-accidental routes? Periphery life becomes permanent. Population loss, ageing, and the survival of much worse than average economic prospects are clearly predictable according to all regional studies. The county's role as a pariah is no better indicated than the fact that it would require an immediate renovation of 700 kilometres from the 1660 km long public road network here, whereas only 5 percent of this year is expected. In addition, pro-government propaganda is also trying to sell this alm as a serious help. Let me quote from the material of an relevant közop project, which argues for the construction of motorways:. In the absence of major investments and targeted development policy intentions, settlement structures, geographical conditions and poor transport links predestinate further marginalisation of the area, outstanding unemployment data and general detachment. But I may not need to explain how much this makes it difficult for the development of Hungarian-Croatian economic relations and the emergence of Somogyország from the poverty of our country's backyard. So, not promises, but actions are finally needed. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-403	After the agenda, Ms Zsuzsanna Szelényi, on the part of the independents, spoke with the title 'The silence of the majority'. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-13-404	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. The essence of democracy is that voters replace those in power. But they also vote for the opposition, that is, those who have an obligation to keep an eye on those in power. [[0.00]] For my part, I am open to debate and criticism. We must strive to work to ensure that debate and criticism do not turn into a kind of political civil war. We have one country, and it belongs to those who voted for the government just as much as those who voted for the opposition. Unfortunately, I always hear the same thing from those I talk to, and the political debate outside Parliament and Parliament does not affect the problems of ordinary people. Politicians, belong to any party, turn their backs on people. Today, the majority are fed up with arguments and squabbling. That's the silent majority, because it feels like no one listens to their word. These people, regardless of their political positions and world views, have worked hard to ensure the livelihood of themselves and their families from day to day. I want to serve this silent majority. We cannot ignore the fact that many are dissatisfied with what is happening today. They feel that not everything is going in the right direction. Above all, they have little confidence in public institutions. This also applies to Parliament, and most of all to Parliament. Therefore, I would like to make it clear that we are not here representing our own cause. We represent the cause of the people. In my opinion, our most important task is to strengthen and restore people's confidence in politics, democracy and politicians. I know this isn't an easy task, but I think it's not impossible. Ladies and gentlemen. In order to regain the confidence of citizens, an agreement between the parties is needed, a clear common determination, a rise in strife. The state must create legal conditions that allow common success. We can't make decisions knowing that everyone's just looking around or playing around the law. Lawbreakers must, of course, be punished, but the spirit of the law must serve the interests of honest people. We must strive to achieve a broad balance in tax policy. On the one hand, the tax system cannot affect people because they are inventive, diligent and effective. On the other hand, support must be given to all those most in need. There are debates in every free country about whether the government can intervene in the privacy of citizens. How can we strike a balance between measures to ensure people's safety and the natural need for freedom? I am aware that this may be the most difficult task ahead of me. This does not require a single step; this cannot be done with a single provision. To make a difference, the entire government needs a huge job. We have to apply the 99 percent rule, that is to say, we have to think of honest people of 99 percent of the population, not about those of 1 percent. The solidarity of the silent majority must be given new meaning in all situations, in all generations and in all ages. This is how the Polish Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz spoke. I read the details from his inaugural speech. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-405	To speak after the next agenda, Mr Készt Zoltán, on the part of the independents, asked for an address on Annectation and Justice. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-406	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. If Europe could learn something from the past, it would mean that concessions would only increase the appetite of the aggressor and then come up with new demands. Exactly a year ago, we were barely a thousand kilometers away, and now everyone is waiting for a solution. Today, Europe's entire post-Cold War security system has collapsed. Isn't this proof of the occupation and annexation of the Crimean Peninsula? Our past sense of internal security is a thing of the past. There's a war in Ukraine. People are killed every day, right now, in these moments. This is a new type of war in which the aggressor uses the latest weapons unscrupulously, while in his statements he is delirious. To date, the democratic world has only brought sanctions against the aggressor and has supported Ukraine morally, politically and economically. I hope that this moral assistance remains strong. It is necessary to know that Europe is acting with one voice on this issue. The present and future of all nations are determined by the values on which the state and society are based. Our fundamental principles are laid down in our constitution. We have gained our independence, we have created a democratic state, and we have legislated the fundamental rights of all people. What we achieved didn't just fall into our laps. In the garden of broad paths, we had the wisdom to choose the way to the present. But all the things that have brought us here will not take us any further. Every generation has to define what they mean by a nation, because it's the only way to adapt to the present. Life changes a lot. People under the age of 30 can't remember the Soviet occupation, they can't remember how much poorer we were than the Western countries, that we needed a visa to travel, and that NATO and the European Union were far-reaching goals, but mostly just dreams. We're building our future. At the same time, we are extremely conservative, clinging to principles that have seemed to have been valid for 20 years. For example, the increasing burden on the state cannot lead to the assumption that the state can and wants to do everything. Let us ask ourselves: must society really be organised to this extent on the basis of instructions and prohibitions from the state? The state is built on freedom. I repeat, first of all, freedom, justice and justice. In view of our laws and our growing regulations, which give the police and officials ever wider powers, the following inevitable question arises: has the situation really become such that we have to treat every person as a potential criminal or as a weak-minded person? It seems to me that we've gone too far in our passion for order. I would much rather live in a country where the state trusts its citizens and civil society. After all, the majority of people are responsible and reliable, able to anticipate the consequences of their actions and expect recognition from their neighbors, not stigma. What does all this mean to me now, in the shadow of the nearby war? Is this my righteous republic? Is this my republic? I say it's yours and mine, all of us. And if that's true, there's no reason for us to make mistakes in ourselves or in fate. Estonia is, and will remain, our republic. Speech by Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves on 24 February 2015 on Estonian Independence. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-13-407	On the following agenda, Mr István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP, spoke with Mr István Ikotity on the subject of the Civilization Model. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-408	Let's take this opportunity and ask ourselves a few questions. I'm asking myself what would happen to this planet if people in India had the same number of cars per family as the Germans. How much clean air would we have left to breathe? I will be even clearer: is there currently enough resources in the world to allow 7 or 8 billion people to enjoy the same level of consumption and waste as the richest Western societies? Will that ever be possible? Or do we need to start a completely different dialogue? Because we created this civilization that we live in. The products of the market and competition, which triggered an amazing and explosive material process. However, the market has created market communities. This has resulted in globalisation, which means we control the entire planet. But do we control globalisation or are we controlled by globalisation? Can we talk about solidarity and the fact that we are all one in an economy based on relentless competition? [[0.10]] How far is our brotherhood spread? The challenge ahead is huge. The big crisis is not so much an economic crisis, it is more political. Today, people no longer rule the forces they unleashed, but rather they dominate people and their lives. Because we didn't come to this planet to simply evolve, regardless of everything. We came to this planet to be happy. Because life is short, and it ends in an instant. And no material asset is as precious as life, that is more important than anything else. But life slips out of our fingers by working, we keep working to consume more. Consumer society is the engine, because, after all, if consumption is paralyzed, the economy will stop, and if the economy stops, the ghost of stagnation will appear in front of everyone. That's exactly what's dangerous for the planet. And they can sustain this over-use by producing short - term tools, because there is much to sell. So the lifetime of a bulb is less than 1,000 hours. There are light bulbs that burn 100,000 hours! But these things should not be manufactured, because this creates a problem in the market, because we have to work and maintain the use and throw away of civilization, so we are trapped in a devilish trap. These problems are of a political nature and show that it is time to start fighting for a new culture. I'm not talking about going back to prehistoric or praising backwards. But we can't keep doing this forever, we can't always be controlled by the market. On the contrary, we must manage the market! We need to realise that the crisis in water resources and the violence against the environment are not the real reason. The real reason is the model of civilization that we created. And it's our way of life that we need to review. The man who works eight hours is also taking two or more jobs. But why? Because he has to pay every month for the car he bought on credit, and he has to pay and he has to pay, and when he's done with all this, he realizes he's a rheumatic old man, and his life is over. And then we can ask, is that what human destiny is? Progress can't be against happiness. It must serve human happiness, the love of the Earth, human relations, the upbringing of children, the care of friendships, the preservation of basic values. Exactly because this is our most precious treasure: happiness. When we fight for the environment, we must not forget that the most fundamental element of our environment is human happiness. Epicurus, Seneca, they say, is not the poor one who has little wealth, but the one who needs more forever and wants more and more. José Mujica, Uruguay's recently resigned president, is still producing the food he eats, giving 90 percent of his income and salary to those in need. I quoted his speech in order to summon his spirituality as an example to follow. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-13-409	Speaking after the next agenda, Mr Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the LMP, asked for a speech on sexism and misogynism. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-13-410	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. This is not the speech of Ewa Kopacz, Angela Merkel or Erna Solberg. But not Benazir Bhutto, Margaret Thatcher, Golda Meir, Indira Gandhi or a Hungarian Prime Minister, but Julia Gillard, former Australian Prime Minister. According to Congressman, people who have sexist views and misogynistic views are unfit to hold a high office. This man doesn't want to lecture me or the government about sexism and misogynism. I hope you have a piece of paper with Congressman, and you're making your resignation. Because if you want to know what it's like to have misogynistic hatred in modern Australia, you shouldn't be making a motion in the House of Representatives, you should take out a mirror. Let's see how repulsive, what repulsive double standards you apply, Congressman, when it comes to misogynism and sexism. Even as Minister of the previous government, he participated in a discussion about the underrepresentation of women in Australia's power institutions. I quote you: "If it is true that men in general have more power than women, is it wrong? What if men are more fit to exercise power and give instructions based on their physiology and temperament? Is this man preaching to us about sexism? Congressman, you have deeply insulted me and all Australian women when you left your mouth in your campaign against the coal tax, saying, "What wives in Australia should understand while ironing... "And then, Congressman, you insulted me when you're above this table, so as we're sitting here now, you've told me what you would never have said to a man in the Prime Minister's chair, that if the Prime Minister wanted to act like an honest woman in political terms... But he insulted me when he went to Parliament and stood in front of the poster with "down with the witch." He insulted me when he stood in front of that banner that called me a man's whore. I've been insulted by these things, Congressman, day by day, over and over again. Hate and sexism, that's what's been gaining ground every single time that Congressman sits in that chair, and I'm sitting in this chair. And now you're gonna expect us to take it seriously, because you've finally left behind everything you said before, so to speak, you've come to realize, oh, my God, there's this thing called sexism, and, well, there's this misogynistic thing. Who's the sexist, who's the misogynist? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's Mr. Congressman has always shown an exemplary willingness to tell us what I or others are responsible for. Without the slightest remorse, he knows all of his earlier statements about stoning someone else in public because of something like that. However, Mr President, you should seriously consider the role of women in public life and in Australian society, because we are entitled to better judgment. This is Julia Gillard, former Australian prime minister, speaking in Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-13-411	Mr Zoltán Magyar, on behalf of Jobbik, has now applied for a post-scheduled speech:.The meat factory in Kápuvár has become a victim of market acquisition, unprofessional speculators and government idleness? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-13-412	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In this late hour, I will now speak for many times about the meat factory in Kapuvar. I've been doing this since the beginning of the previous cycle, not because it's some sort of passo for me, or for some mysterious reason, I'm attracted to the meat factory case. I'm doing this because this meat plant - it's not evidence anymore, and it's not backed up by a source - is supposed to have been destroyed on purpose. The market acquisition techniques used by some meat operators in Hungary and Europe led to the destruction of such a traditional plant, which, by the way, was a significant part of the region. Many people in and around Gates can say that they have worked for decades in this factory, and even their parents and grandparents have spent their working years in the factory. So, they are able to destroy, destroy, and then market, and enforce, through this market, the business policy that these meat operators are otherwise trying to enforce. How much different would the situation be if we had to talk about the bankruptcy and the failure of the meat factory in Kapuvar in today's circumstances, since today there is, let's say, a sow support system that can make the situation of pigs in the area more viable, who do not, since there is no place to surrender the animal at present. We could now talk about a growth loan scheme or a working capital loan scheme in the food sector, which could also be used by the factory and other meat plants, if any. So the arguments and the circumstances with which they explained the decision-making and the decision-making of the factory would now be difficult to imagine and explain. How regrettable that governments always realize these problems when it is too late! We have seen this well in the sugar industry, for example, when governments at the time - I am talking about the beginning of the nineties - forgot to install market protection, forgot to put in place a support system for the sugar industry, while this was already fully integrated in Europe at the time. [[0.20]] This came to their mind when 100 percent of Hungarian sugar factories came to foreign hands. Unfortunately, we can see the same in the meat industry. Moreover, it is also a new situation, which should be mentioned, that in the 27 percent world record VAT, this was reduced to 5 percent for live and half pigs. Interestingly, this was also done when the Hungarian meat industry was reduced to very narrow, very few players, and most of them, I can say, are in an interesting way specifically registered as a close-to-government investor. It is also interesting that your favorite trade network, which is a major pig shopper in the countryside - for example, in the Rába district, almost the only ones in my constituency - did not negotiate with pig holders before, until this record high VAT was applied to the pig, so that they would not have been told that we would take the animal from you, that you would receive money for your work if we received half of it black and without paper. All of this, once again, comes to order from the suppliers of your favourite trade chain. Once this market has been cleared and these few players are almost alone, they will now receive the subsidies and discounts. It is also worrying about the decapitation of the meat industry in Kapuvar that the promise of accountability that was in this regard also went away and went up in smoke. I first raised this issue in the time of the Secretary of State of Buda - then Commissioner for Accountancy - because perhaps in a naive way after that, but I was hoping that since the destruction of the Kapuvar meat factory started in the time of socialist governments, perhaps some steps could be taken. Then Secretary of State Budai very vehemently asked you that I do not have to worry here, and I do not have to bring this to the House, because he has the case under control and will solve everything. Compared to this, no lock was placed on anyone, no forints of public money were recovered or returned, even though the socialist governments of the time helped the factory's management at that time by a few ten million forints, which, I stress, was not professional management at all; it is now apparent that it was only the government support, the group organized to take down public funds. So, we don't know about any positive, forward-looking measures on the Kapuvar meat factory. I ask the government to honor us by finally telling us what your plan is for this factory. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-413	On the last agenda, Mr László György Lukács, on behalf of Jobbik, asked for a speech: "It has never been and may never be about M4.
u2015-04-13-414	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County Representative, I am very fond of the construction and construction of roads M4 and 4, although as you can hear in the title now, there may never be and perhaps never will be an M4 from Highway 4. There was much to hear - even today - about the construction of the M4 or about its construction, here János Lázár has answered today, or there have been Members who have asked this question. I am the first Member to place him as Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County Representative, even though he is the majority of the road itself, the planned phase, most of the section from Abony to Weapons goes through Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. I'm sure you've heard a lot about the case. There's a lot of things I'm not sure about, but one thing's for sure: construction is currently in place, and Abony and Guns only show a torso of track constructions. One thing's for sure: there's still the abandonment of buildings and objects in the area, and I'm sure that the main road 4 remains the way of death. But where are we? Let's look at the baseline first. The starting point is that on April 1st, the government ordered its own Minister for Development to stop the construction of the M4 immediately, the construction, and, according to the government's decision, it stopped. It seems - and this is now the last certain number - that the state has currently paid HUF 56 billion for the construction project, some of which it would otherwise like to reclaim. On the other hand, it is certain that an EU investigation has preceded or prevented the closure of the construction site by some EU signal. To this day, the government has not poured clear water on who first indicated what the EU had in mind, what was its opinion, and what was the reason for the closure of the implementation. A lot of people have speculated - and perhaps this guess is correct - that the fight between the Public Machine and the Government, Simicska and Orbán could be the cause here too. But the Union has also given some reasons why they do not believe that the construction of the M4 motorway is necessary, said János Lázár today. One of the reasons was that they saw no reason to attach Szolnok to the freeway supply, hence to the country's circulation, and the EU objected and the European Commission objected to the high price and to the cartel suspicion of the implementation. But are these points justified by the European Commission? This should also be examined, and there was also one, or there is also a forum in the countryside. Today, he is a news portal, who examined him one by one, going through these, to see what is true of it. The statistics, please, the numbers are stubborn facts, they don't lie, they've taken into account the four reasons why the M4 and 4 highways were extended. The first is the fact that the death route is Highway 4. The main road number 4 has been leading the list of the most dangerous roads for years: 22 people died here in 2010, 37 fatal accidents in 2009, and the number of fatal accidents has been around 20 ever since. But here's the question of clues. Based on the surveys of the Road, the proportion of the sections with 17 millimeters or more in the national network is 7 per cent; in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County it is 10-14 per cent on Highway 4, so it is double the national. The growing turnover in recent years has also demonstrated - and is contrary to what the Commission has said - that between 2001 and 2011, the largest increase in traffic in the counties of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok and Győr-Moson-Sopron has increased by 18 and 22 percent over ten years. And where isn't there a single centimeter of freeway? This is Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. But the comparison of traffic data also showed that Highway 4, which is twice two lanes, boasts data that even the M6 motorway is not certain in Tolna County and hardly misses the Heves county sections of the M3 motorway. So it seems that one of the busiest of the main roads, and you can safely say, is the most dangerous current track of the M4, which is Highway 4. So the conclusion is therefore, we can say that the game that the government started to play with this and by stopping the investment is very dangerous, because it projectes an internal political game, an Orbán-Simicka fault line on the residents there, thereby sacrificing them, taking away the little hope that they will normally approach either the county seat or Budapest; they will repel a complete county development, and all because of a skander match between them. I call on the government to behave responsibly in the continuation of the M4 and to continue with the M4 because this is in the interest of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-13-415	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume the meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 10:28 p.m.]]
